DRN-3087945
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they had to carry out remedial work for extensive rot which 
spread because Gresham Insurance Company Limited (GIC) failed to identify it, or remove 
an infected piece of wood when completing repairs for an escape of water under their 
buildings insurance. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr H.  
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his buildings insurance after finding a damp patch of floor. There 
wasnt a clear source of a significant leak, but GIC completed repairs, which included drying 
out, treating fungal growth, replacing floor and skirting boards and installing a new wooden 
flooring.
Nine months after Mr H found the first damp patch, he noticed skirting board coming away 
from another part of his home. GIC accepted the claim as linked to the original escape of 
water. It replaced the skirting board, applied a localised fungal treatment, and painted the 
new boards.
Four months after that, Mr H reported the same problem happening in his bedroom. GIC 
replaced the skirting boards, two joists and the flooring.
Mr H found that there was dry rot under the floor and complained to GIC. He thought it 
shouldve identified the fungal growth and treated his home accordingly. Because Mr H 
thought GICs fungal treatment was ineffective, and it had misdiagnosed the problem, he 
thought GIC had failed in its duty of care to him. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. While she didnt think GIC needed to pay the full 
claim, she thought GIC couldve done more. Our investigator recommended that GIC:
pay half the drying costs in recognition that the dry rot couldve spread through the 
property because of pieces of wood left in;
pay the costs of any work carried out in rooms which had to be uplifted and 
reinstated because any repair should be lasting under the policy;
pay 50% of the costs of reinstatement work to other rooms, not shown on the 
contractors file;
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused;
appoint an agent to go through the additional costs Mr H incurred and decide on an 
appropriate reimbursement based on the receipts available and the record of cash 
payments, and
pay simple interest at 8% of the costs agreed.
GIC didnt agree that anything it did had caused the dry rot to spread, and it provided 
evidence to show that its actions, if anything, wouldve prevented dry rot forming. It also 
pointed out that it wasnt under any obligation to search for other issues and its responsibility 
was to repair the damage caused by the escape of water.
Mr H was unhappy that GIC disagreed because it would be covered by professional 
indemnity insurance and wouldnt lose out like he and Mrs H would. He also said that GIC 
accepted responsibility, liability and ownership of the repairs as soon as they started a 
course of treatment. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
Theres a lot of evidence to support this complaint, all of which Ive taken into consideration. 
Our rules dont require me to comment on every single piece so, instead, Ill focus on the key 
issues and comment on the relevant evidence where I think it will help explain my reasoning.
The main issue is that Mr H thinks GIC shouldve identified dry rot when it investigated the 
escape of water. He thinks the rot spread to the extent it did because of GICs inappropriate 
treatment of the water damage.
Ive looked at the policy to see what GIC shouldve covered when responding to the report of 
an escape of water. Mr H was covered for, the reasonable cost of removing anypart of the 
buildings necessary to find the source of the leak and making good after the leaks been 
fixed.
The policy doesnt cover, wet or dry rot arising from any cause, except where the rot was 
directly causedby repairs or preventative work carried out by the tradesperson we 
arranged to deal with your claim.
I think one of the most important pieces of evidence is the photo Mr H provided of the sub-
floor area from the initial escape of water investigation. The photo shows that flooring was 
lifted to reveal the sub-floor area across the width of the bathroom doorway. An area of 
approximately 30cm x 30cm is covered in a substance that has the appearance of thick 
white foam, or cotton wool stretched and clinging to the floor joists. This is clear evidence of 
dry rot and, given the amount visible, it couldnt have been missed. So, Im satisfied that the 
dry rot was already there when GIC first attended. 
The policy doesnt cover dry rot so, at that point, I think GIC shouldve instructed Mr H that it 
couldnt complete any reinstatement work until hed dealt with the dry rot. Once hed had the 
work done, GIC couldve completed the reinstatement work and Mr H wouldve been back in 
the position he was in before the escape of water. However, GIC carried out this, and 
subsequent reinstatement work before the dry rot was dealt with. I think that was a mistake 
and one which GIC should put right. 
To put Mr H back in the position he wouldve been in if GIC had dealt with this matter as I 
wouldve expected and in line with the policy, GIC should reimburse Mr H the equivalent cost 
of all reinstatement work it had already carried out before the dry rot issue was resolved. 
Thats the same cost as it wouldve been if GIC had waited for the dry rot to be dealt with 
before carrying out the reinstatement works and includes any cash settlement made for work 
that needed to be repeated. 
Moving on, the dispute here is not whether GIC caused the dry rot  it was already present 
when it first lifted the flooring - but whether it exacerbated the problem. Mr H thinks it didnt 
treat the rot properly and, as a result, GICs repair work contributed to the spread. So, he 
thinks it should contribute to the cost of repairs.
As quoted above, the policy only covers dry rot if directly caused by GIC when dealing with 
a claim. It was already present so GIC didnt cause it. But I think its fair to consider whether 
GIC directly caused the spread.I understand that dry rot is caused and spread within an environment which has excess 
moisture and inadequate ventilation. Mr H and GIC provided expert reports describing the 
condition of the sub-floor area of Mr Hs home. Both reports confirm that ventilation was 
inadequate and needed to be improved before the rot could be eliminated. Both reports also 
say that there was excess moisture and, later, standing water. Its clear from the reports that 
the water ingress likely causing the dry rot was from external sources  land drainage - 
rather than from any escape of water within the home, and that the moist conditions had 
been present for some time.
I havent seen anything which tells me the experts concluded the rot wouldve been confined 
to the space visible when the floor was first lifted. So, I think its likely that invasive work 
wouldve been needed to check for other affected areas. What I do know is that it was 
present on other areas just over a year later and that, during treatment, even more areas 
were identified, including the loft space. Both experts have concluded that the fluctuating 
water table caused excessive moisture and standing water during wet weather, and that the 
sub-floor void had inadequate ventilation. These are the prime conditions for the spread of 
dry rot. Based on this evidence, it seems likely that there wouldve been a significant 
problem with dry rot already and the conditions supported its growth even before GIC 
investigated the escape of water.  
GIC provided evidence from a reliable source which confirms that drying out reduces the 
spread of dry rot. It undertook a ten-day drying out process as part of the reinstatement 
works, and the expert reports confirm that elimination of the moisture source and drying out 
are the first steps to treating dry rot. So, on balance, I think its reasonable to accept GICs 
view that it didnt cause the rot to become worse. While GIC might not have helped matters 
by reinstating over the dry rot, I cant fairly say that it contributed to the spread. Providing 
GIC reimburses Mr H for the reinstatement of the areas which it had already done, I dont 
think I can fairly say that GIC is responsible for any other costs. Thats because the evidence 
doesnt show that GIC directly caused any dry rot or its spread, so the policy doesnt cover 
Mr H for any of the associated costs. 
As I havent concluded that GIC contributed to the spread, I dont think its reasonable to ask 
it to contribute to the drying costs or reinstatement costs incurred directly, and only, as a 
result of treating the dry rot, such as improved ventilation, drying out, and timber 
replacement. 
 
Its worth pointing out here, that when GIC was called to the original escape of water claim, 
there wasnt an obvious source, and certainly not one which wouldve caused the extensive 
dampness seen. This indicates that the sub-floor moisture and standing water, causing dry 
rot, couldve been the root cause. If that was the case, then GIC wouldnt have been 
responsible for providing any cover under the policy. Therefore, I think asking GIC to cover 
the cost of the second lot of reinstatement works, as Ive said, is a fair outcome.
Mr H has provided a lot of evidence to show the costs he incurred. I think its reasonable for 
GIC to appoint someone to go through the evidence with him and agree what costs are 
reasonably attributable to the reinstatement work which needed to be repeated. As Mr H has 
already paid for the work which I think GIC is responsible for, and he has waited a long time 
for this matter to be resolved, I think its also fair for GIC to pay simple interest of 8% on the 
amount it reimburses.
If GIC had handled the escape of water claim differently and told Mr H he needed to deal 
with the dry rot first, he wouldve still incurred costs and experienced a lot of inconvenience. 
So, Ive focused here on the distress and inconvenience which couldve been avoided if GIC 
had handled the claim better. I think its fair to say GIC contributed to significant delays in 
properly identifying and treating the rot. While its intention may have been to fix what it thought was damage and a relatively harmless mould caused by an escape of water, the 
result was that Mr H experienced the upheaval of reinstatements twice, rather than once. 
Because of this, I think compensation of £500 is warranted.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Gresham 
Insurance Company Limited to:
appoint someone to go through the receipts, invoices and cash payment evidence 
with Mr H and agree the costs which are reasonably attributable to the reinstatement 
work which needed to be repeated;
reimburse Mr and Mrs H the agreed cost of all cash settled and reinstatement work 
that needed to be repeated after the dry rot was treated;
pay simple interest* of 8% on the amount it reimburses, and
pay compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
GIC didnt respond.
Mr H felt it was a favourable outcome but wanted clarification about the proposals. He didnt 
formally accept or decline.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H wanted to understand what, exactly, the settlement amount would be if he accepted my 
provisional decision. I explained that the first part of the remedy is to go through the costs 
and agree the actual figure, so thats not something I can clarify. However, I said that 
Gresham should pay for the cost of work it did to repair any damage it first covered as part of 
the water damage claim. Anything else paid for as a result of the dry rot would not be 
covered by Gresham.
As neither party provided any further evidence, and theres no indication that Mr Hs 
questions indicated dissatisfaction with the proposed outcome, my provisional decision 
becomes my final decision for the same reasons.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and Gresham Insurance Company Limited must:
appoint someone to go through the receipts, invoices and cash payment evidence 
with Mr H and agree the costs which are reasonably attributable to the reinstatement 
work which needed to be repeated;
reimburse Mr and Mrs H the agreed cost of all cash settled and reinstatement work 
that needed to be repeated after the dry rot was treated;
pay simple interest* of 8% on the amount it reimburses, and
pay compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience.
*If Gresham Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman