DRN-4139656
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) administered some 
shares he holds in his Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
In early 2023 Mr F saw that shares he held in a company (SB) were listed as 100% loss and 
were no longer trading. He contacted II who said they had emailed him to say there was a 
corporate action notification in his online account. 
Mr F complained saying he never got the email and didnt know about any corporate action 
or that he had been given choices about what to do. II didnt uphold the complaint saying 
they had sent an email and uploaded a document to his online account with the tender offer.
Remaining unhappy Mr F brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought by sending an email and uploading 
the document II had acted fairly.
Mr F disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr F that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is 
intended.
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
II have provided persuasive evidence showing they sent an email to Mr F with a notification 
that there was a document uploaded to his online account. This was sent to the email 
address registered on the account that had been used previously with to communicate. 
By sending the email I think II have fulfilled their obligations however I cant say why Mr F 
says it wasnt received. II say they didnt receive any bounce back or undeliverable 
notification about the email.
The corporate action letter was uploaded to Mr Fs online account. Mr F says that the 
document was hard to find and that II have now redesigned the interface of his online 
account. 
Because of the redesign of the online account Im unable to see what it looked like or 
comment on whether it was easy or hard to find. However I think II met their obligations by 
sending an email, which Im persuaded they did.
II operate an execution only non-advisory service. This means they cant take any action 
such as buying or selling shares, and nor can they choose a response to a corporate action, 
without authorisation from the shareholder. Because II didnt hear from Mr F the default 
option was applied to the SB shares which means they moved from the ISA into a trading 
account.
I know what happened has potentially caused a financial loss however Im persuaded II sent 
the email as they are required to do as well as uploading the letter to Mr Fs online account. 
Having looked at everything that happened Im satisfied II treated Mr F fairly and reasonably 
so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman