DRN-2169869
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Ltd failed to deal with her car insurance 
claim properly, after shed had a minor accident. She also complains that Hastings failed to 
remove a record of an earlier claim which Hastings had agreed to do.
What happened
Mrs M had a car insurance policy with Hastings. She had a minor accident in October 2016, 
driving into the rear of a car after it had stopped suddenly. Minimal damage was caused to 
the other car, but Mrs Ms car suffered damage to the front bumper. 
Mrs M raised a claim with Hastings. Her car was assessed by Hastings and deemed beyond 
economical repair (BER). After discussions with Mrs Ms husband, Hastings agreed to pay 
£2,500 (less the excess) to settle this claim. Some years later, Mrs M became aware the car 
hadnt been scrapped  which she thought had happened  and was still on the road. She 
complained to Hastings, saying she hadnt been given the opportunity to purchase/keep the 
car at the time, and because of this shed suffered a financial loss. 
She also complained Hastings hadnt properly investigated the actions of the third party, and 
she hadnt received good customer service during her complaint journey with Hastings. And 
she also complained that an earlier 2015 claim hadnt been removed from her insurance 
records, as had been promised in a conversation her husband had with Hastings. 
Hastings said they werent obliged to offer Mrs M the chance to retain/purchase the car after 
it had been deemed BER. And there was no record Mrs M asked to retain the car rather than 
it be scrapped. Hastings said theyd met her valuation of the vehicle as a settlement - £2,500 
- which was £300 more than its value in motor trade guides and so had provided a fair 
settlement. Hastings said they couldnt find a record of any communications where theyd 
agreed to remove the earlier claim record from the insurance database. But Hastings agreed 
one of their complaint handlers had acted inappropriately in a phone call and awarded £40 
compensation. Unhappy with this response, Mrs M brought these complaints to us. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said he thought Hastings had 
acted correctly when assessing the value of Mrs Ms car and dealing with the claim generally 
 including why and how they settled with the third party. He also said Hastings werent 
required to offer Mrs M the opportunity to retain her car. Regarding the insurance database 
issue, he said that Hastings hadnt done anything wrong by recording details of the incident 
on the database, because they were required to do so. And he concluded the £40 Hastings 
paid was fair compensation for the service failings Mrs M had experienced. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint 
afresh, so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Failure to investigate the 2016 accident properly
Mrs M says she was initially told the third partys claim for damage and injury had been 
settled. She was later told the only claim settled was damage to the third partys car  there 
was no injury settlement in other words, which raised suspicion for Mrs M. Also, Mrs Ms 
husband viewed the other car at the time of the accident and believed there was no damage 
and asked why Hastings didnt investigate the extent of damage claimed.
Its not in dispute Mrs Ms car was involved in a minor collision. The impact was enough to 
damage her front bumper, so would likely have caused some damage to the other car, 
however small. Hastings received details of the third partys repair costs, which they then 
assessed internally to check they were reasonable in the circumstances, and concluded they 
were. These are the steps Id have reasonably expected Hastings to follow here. Hastings 
concluded Mrs M was at fault and the third partys costs were reasonable, so thered have 
been no reason for them to make further enquiries to challenge the costs claimed. And 
regarding the point about whether the third party suffered an injury, there was no injury claim 
submitted, or payment made by Hastings in this regard, so this appears to be a moot point. 
So, I think Hastings acted fairly in the way they investigated the 2016 accident, including the 
third partys claim, and I wont be asking them to do anything further regarding this.  
BER offer/Option to retain Mrs Ms car
Mrs M says she was told she couldnt keep the car, after it had been declared BER, and her 
husband specifically asked to retain it but was overruled by Hastings. 
Ive looked at Hastings detailed case notes from the time in question, and also listened to all 
of the call recordings that took place between the relevant dates in October 2016 between 
them and Mrs Ms husband. 
The notes show there were many exchanges, especially after Hastings own repairers 
concluded the cost of repairing Mrs Ms car was more than it was worth  hence being 
classified as BER. And the subject of Mrs M finding her own garage to quote for the repairs, 
to bring the repair cost down to a financially viable level, was also discussed at length. 
However, these discussions stalled when it became clear there was a risk Mrs Ms chosen 
repairer may charge for their initial assessment if they werent eventually instructed to carry 
out the repairs, and that Mrs M would be liable for that cost. Because it seems this was a risk 
Mrs M didnt want to take, a BER settlement was accepted soon after this. 
And from looking at the notes, and listening to the calls, I couldnt see or hear any request 
was made to keep the car in place of a cash settlement. This isnt something that Hastings 
were required to offer to Mrs M  her policy essentially required Hastings to repair her car or 
pay a market value settlement in the event of it being classed BER.Furthermore, I can see Hastings paid £2,500 (less the excess) in settlement, against their 
engineers market value of £2,165 (taken from the trade guides at the time). Mrs Ms 
husband, in one of the phone calls I listened to, questioned the £2,165 figure, saying hed 
seen a similar make and model on sale for £2,500. This is what Hastings eventually paid, 
and so I dont agree that Mrs M lost out financially as a result of not being able to retain the 
car. She was paid what her husband had previously suggested the car was worth.
So, I dont think Hastings did anything wrong by not offering Mrs M the option to retain her 
vehicle after it had been classed as BER. I also think the BER settlement was fair, and so I 
wont be asking Hastings to do anything further in this regard either.  
Removal of the 2015 accident from the insurance database
Mrs M says the promise to remove the 2015 claim details was made in a phone call between 
Hastings and her husband in March 2020. Hastings dont have a recording of the call. And 
there is no record of any such conversation within their claim notes (for either the 2015 or 
2016 claim). Whilst I have no reason to question Mrs Ms (or in this case her husbands) 
recollection of events, I think it may be useful here if I explained a little about the insurance 
database, or more precisely the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
CUE is a database of motor claims/incidents and is managed by the Motor Insurers Bureau. 
If an insurer is signed up to CUE, itll make a record of any incident its been made aware of 
and whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers have a duty to make accurate entries but can 
edit or remove any theyve made. Which essentially is what Mrs M asked to happen here. 
The claim Mrs M asked to be removed occurred in 2015. Ive looked at Hastings system 
notes for this claim. Its clear there was significant dispute about the quality of the work 
carried out by Mrs Ms chosen repairer at the time, but its also clear Hastings did pay this 
repairer on two occasions for the work theyd carried out. They settled a clam, which means 
theyd have been required to register it on CUE. Ive also seen the 2015 CUE entry. 
So, Im satisfied the 2015 claim was properly recorded on Hastings system and on the CUE 
database. The issue only appears to have come to light after Mrs M didnt disclose it to her 
new insurers some years later. But this isnt the fault of Hastings. So, whilst I acknowledge 
what Mrs M says she was told by Hastings, I dont think there are any grounds for the 2015 
entry to be removed from CUE in any event, as it correctly records the outcome of a claim 
shed made. So, I wont be asking Hastings to do anything further in this regard.
Customer service issues
Having looked at Hastings 2016 claim notes, I can see there were many communications 
between Hastings and Mrs Ms husband up to the initial settlement of her claim. And these 
became fraught at times. Mrs Ms husband also expressed dissatisfaction at the speed of the 
claim progress. As Ive said, Ive listened to the 2016 calls, and think Hastings agents acted 
professionally during these. And looking the system notes, I think Hastings acted proactively 
at this time, particularly in trying to accommodate Mrs Ms wish to seek other repair options. 
So, I dont think there were any customer service failings during Mrs Ms claim journey in 
2016, and I wont be asking Hastings to pay any compensation in this regard.  
I agree there were some service issues experienced by Mrs M (and her husband) after the 
complaint was raised. Hastings has already awarded £40 compensation for poor service in 
two calls they had with Mrs Ms husband, which I think is a fair amount.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman