DRN-4383380
The complaint
Ms P complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a claim made under 
her property owners policy.
What happened
Ms P holds a property owners policy with Aviva. She made a claim after discovering that her 
tenant had been using her rental property for the cultivation of cannabis and damage had 
been caused to the property.
Aviva turned down the claim as it said Ms P hadnt complied with all the policy requirements 
for cover to be provided. Unhappy with this, Ms P brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Avivas claims 
decision had been reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy says:
Illegal Cultivation of Drugs
We will indemnify You in respect of Damage arising from Your tenants use of The Premises 
for the manufacture, cultivation, harvest or processing by any other method of drugs classed 
as a controlled substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act (1971).
You will lose Your right to indemnity in respect of a Residential Unit if You, or anyone acting 
on Your behalf, do not
(1) carry out internal and external inspections of the buildings at least every three months or 
as permitted under the tenancy agreement
(a) maintain a log of such inspections and retain that log for at least 24 months
(b) carry out a six monthly management check of the inspections log
(2) obtain and record written formal identification of any prospective tenant
(3) obtain and retain a written employers reference for any new tenant
(4) obtain and record details of Your tenants bank account and verify those details by 
receiving at least one payment from such account
(5) advise Your tenant, where sub-letting is allowed by the tenancy agreement, that they 
must follow the measures laid out in items (2) (3) and (4) above for all lettings that they 
arrange.
These requirements were set out on page 27 of a policy document that was over 100 pages 
long. They were not included in the policy schedule. Given that a claim could be turned down 
if Ms P didnt comply with the requirements, I think they were onerous and ought to have 
been brought to her attention.
Though even if Aviva had brought the requirements to Ms Ps attention, Im not persuaded 
that it would be appropriate for Aviva to turn down the claim anyway. Ill explain why.
Aviva says that Ms P didnt carry out regular inspections of the property, and didnt obtain 
and record details of her tenants bank account and verify those details.
The first requirement was that Ms P (or anyone acting on her behalf) needed to carry out 
inspections of the property at least every three months, or as permitted under the tenancy 
agreement.
The tenancy agreement only says that the landlord/agent may enter the property to inspect 
its condition by giving 24-hour notice, and doesnt specify how often the property would be 
inspected. Though in any event, Ms P says she accessed the property on two occasions 
(which was at least every three months of the period in which the property was rented) 
because a neighbour had reported a damaged tree, and that she kept a note of her visits in 
her diary (though I havent seen this).
The other requirement is that Ms P (or anyone acting on her behalf) should obtain and 
record details of her tenants bank account, and verify those details by receiving at least one 
payment from the account.
The letting agency apparently took its commission up front from the first two rental
payments. It then informed Ms P that the tenant had issues adding her bank details, and that 
it would send her the rental payments after it had received them from the tenant. It then did 
so.
We now know that Ms P was a victim of deception, and that someone was merely posing as 
a letting agency. I accept there were some irregularities - for instance, the rental payments 
made to Ms P were not made by the name of the letting agency, but by an individual not 
known to Ms P. However, that letting agency was a registered company on Companies 
House, and they did arrange for a reputable referencing company to carry out the reference 
checks on the tenant. So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for Ms P to consider they 
were a genuine company acting on her behalf.
Ms P understood that the letting agency had received money from the tenant. Ms P says she 
called the letting agency to question whether the payment she had received from the 
individual was from the agency - and that the agency confirmed it was and that they had 
received the money from the tenants bank account. I appreciate this cant be confirmed.
However, given that the letting agency was not genuine, I think its likely they would have 
stated the tenant had made payments from their bank account if questioned about this. So at 
that point, there wouldnt have been anything further for Ms P to do to verify things to ensure 
she met the cover requirements (even if she had been aware of them). Although I accept the 
requirement wasnt strictly complied with, I think it would have been reasonable for Ms P to 
have relied on what the letting agency told her, and therefore it wouldnt have made a 
difference to the claim anyway.
I therefore find that it wasnt fair for Aviva to say that Ms P had lost her right to indemnity 
under the cover for illegal cultivation of drugs, and so I intend to require it to pay the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Ms P responded to say she accepted my provisional findings.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following main points:It thinks Ms P should be regarded as a commercial customer subject to the Insurance 
Act 2015. 
It thinks the policy did put Ms P on notice to check its contents. It says Ms P was also 
an experienced landlord who arranged her policy through a broker. 
It has referred to section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015, and says it was entitled to rely 
upon Ms Ps failure to comply with the policy requirements, unless Ms P can show 
that these failures could not have increased the risk of the loss which occurred. 
It thinks it is irrelevant that Ms Ps letting agent would have falsified information if she 
had pursued validation for the tenants bank account, as this would still be a failure to 
comply with policy requirements.
It says it is doubtful that Ms P did carry out any inspections, and thinks it highly likely 
that by the date of the second inspection, the cannabis farm had been installed. 
As there was no periodic inspection regime in the tenancy agreement, it thinks the 
policy requirement was that the property should be inspected every three months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva says the policy did put Ms P on notice to check its contents. It has referred to page 
one of the policy terms which say the policy and schedule should be read carefully to ensure 
the cover meets requirements. Aviva says it would be impractical and unreasonable to give 
prominence to a particular condition or exclusion over others. 
However, I note that Aviva brought other onerous terms to Ms Ps attention in the policy 
schedule. The schedule said that loss of rent/and or alternative accommodation was limited 
to 20% of the building sum insured. It also said that Ms P would lose indemnity for flat roof 
cover if she didnt arrange for any flat roofs to be inspected annually and by a competent 
roofing contractor every three years. Finally, it said that subsidence cover was excluded for a 
single storey rear extension. 
Given that indemnity would only be provided by Aviva under the illegal cultivation of drugs 
section of the policy if Ms P took certain actions, I remain of the opinion that this should have 
been made clear by Aviva (as it did for the other onerous terms Ive mentioned above). I 
think this alone means that Aviva cant rely on the requirements. Though for completeness, 
Ive considered Avivas other arguments.
The Insurance Act 2015 applies to commercial policies. Section 11 essentially says that an 
insurer cant rely on a breach of a policy term if the breach didnt increase the risk of the loss 
which actually occurred. 
The requirement was to obtain and record details of Your tenants bank account and verify 
those details by receiving at least one payment from such account. 
The letting agent had arranged for a genuine referencing agent to carry out background 
checks on the tenant (Mr S). They carried out an employment check, passport number 
verification, a check with Mr Ss previous landlord, and a credit search where they matched 
the tenant. So the main background checks (that I think any prudent landlord would have 
arranged), were successfully carried out.I dont know if Mr S was involved in the deception, though if he was, then I think its likely he 
would have sent a payment from his bank account if needed. But if he wasnt, then I accept 
that non-compliance with the term likely did increase the risk of the loss. 
Therefore, strictly speaking, Aviva was entitled to rely on the non-compliance in order to turn 
down the claim (if I were to ignore that Aviva hadnt brought the requirement to Ms Ps 
attention). However, I remain of the opinion that in these particular circumstances, that 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable. I think that if Ms P had known of the requirements and asked 
the letting agent if it had received a payment from Mr Ss bank account, they would have told 
her they had. And so this wouldnt have made a difference to the claim, even if Ms P had 
done all she reasonably could.
Ive read the decisions issued by my ombudsman colleagues that Aviva has referred to. 
Though as Aviva is aware, each case is considered on its own merits, and Im not bound by 
the findings of previous cases. 
Aviva also says its doubtful that Ms P did carry out any inspections, and thinks its highly 
likely the cannabis farm had been installed by the date of the alleged second inspection. It 
also says that as the tenancy agreement didnt have an inspection regime, then the property 
should have been inspected every three months.
I dont know for certain that Ms P carried out the inspections, though she says she did and 
that she kept a record of this in her diary. I note that Avivas loss adjuster was planning to 
request this, but I havent been provided with a copy. 
I appreciate Ms P had no formal arrangement with the letting agency for inspections to be 
carried out, but the property was only let for seven months before the cannabis farm was 
discovered. Ms P apparently only visited the property due to an issue raised by a neighbour, 
but based on what shes said, the property was visited at least every three months in that 
seven-month period. So it seems that Ms P inadvertently complied with this requirement 
(even though it wasnt brought to her attention by Aviva). 
Aviva thinks the cannabis farm was likely already in place when Ms P says she visited the 
property. It says the installation would have taken a considerable time, and that images of 
the cannabis plants show that cultivation had been taking place for some time. 
Ms P says she visited the property for the second time on 14 August, which was two months 
before the cannabis farm was discovered by her. Aviva hasnt provided persuasive evidence 
that the cannabis farm took longer than this to be installed in the property. Also, it seems to 
me that theres no way of knowing if the plants were grown from seed or moved into the 
property after theyd started developing. 
Overall, I dont think Aviva has shown that Ms P hasnt been truthful about the dates she 
says she visited the property.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest* at 8% simple per annum should be 
added to any cash settlement due from a month after the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give Ms P a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman