DRN-1970692
The complaint
Mr H complains that Whickham Golf Club Ltd (WGC) set up a finance agreement without 
his consent, and that they didnt carry out the necessary lending checks to ensure it was 
suitable for him.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr H joined WGC and became one of its members. WGC says Mr H agreed to 
an 18-month fixed sum loan agreement for membership, and it gave him a copy of his 
agreement and clubs bye-laws at the time. This loan was for £918 with a monthly cost of 
around £51.
In February 2020 Mr H decided to cancel the membership and told WGC. Mr H says it was 
only at this point he became aware hed entered into a finance agreement with WGC, and 
this wasnt explained when he joined.
Mr H says once he told WGC he was leaving the club he was threatened with legal action. 
He complained, saying it hadnt carried out any lending or affordability checks when 
providing finance, nor had it provided him with a Standard European Consumer Credit 
Information (SECCI) pre-contract document.
WGC said its agreement and follow-up procedures were reasonable, and referred him to the 
clubs bye-laws. Mr H has said WGC didnt provide referral rights to our service in its 
response, and asked us into what had happened. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that it was clear that Mr H was signing a 
loan agreement with WGC, and he couldnt see that court action had been threatened. 
Regarding the lending checks, our investigator said that there arent any set checks that 
WGC had to fulfil before entering into this agreement. So he didnt uphold it.
Mr H disagreed and reiterated that he hadnt been provided with important pre-contract 
information which is a failing on part of WGC. Mr H also said WGCs threat of legal action 
was communicated verbally. The investigator looked again and didnt change his mind. He 
said WGC had provided Mr H with sufficient information based on the documentation itd 
provided. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Mr H says he wasnt aware he entered into a loan agreement. So Ive looked at the 
agreement which Mr H signed with WGC in April 2019. Our investigator has already 
highlighted the sections of the agreement that highlight its a fixed sum loan agreement so I 
wont repeat these in detail. But in summary the agreement outlines what type of agreement 
it is, it includes clear details of the monthly payment, the total sum payable, and period of 
time this will be paid over. And it mentions the consequences of missing payments.
Having read this carefully Im satisfied WGC made it clear to Mr H what he was signing and 
entering into. At the time of signing up, WGC says it also gave Mr H a copy of its bye-laws. 
These say any member who pays via direct debit must sign a legally binding fixed sum loan 
agreement  which seems in keeping with what happened. 
So overall Im satisfied Mr H was aware, or ought to have been aware that by paying by 
monthly direct debits and signing the agreement, he was taking out a financial agreement for 
his membership.
Mr H has said that he was verbally threatened with court action by WGC if he didnt pay. I 
cant be sure how this was expressed to him, but this is action that WGC could take if 
payments were missed. Mr H might perceive this as a threat, but I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for WGC to mention this. Id note within the written communication between 
Mr H and WGC that the matter hadnt escalated to that stage and was polite in tone. 
Mr H feels that WGC didnt carry out enough checks on him or consider his circumstances 
when taking out this agreement. However hes said this is a matter of principle, not that he 
couldnt have afforded the payments. As our investigator has mentioned, there isnt a 
compulsory set of forms or checks that have to be submitted before a lender provides credit. 
However, our service would expect a business to lend responsibly, dependent on the 
associated risk and proportionate to the amount thats being lent. For instance, I would 
expect checks for this sort of agreement, £918 over 18 months, to differ considerably to 
someone, who was taking out finance for a brand new car. This is because the amounts 
involved are usually much higher, and the agreement is taken out over a longer period of 
time, therefore meaning that the risk to the lender is increased. 
WGC have said that they dont carry out any income and expenditure checks on new 
members, and I cant see that they completed any credit checks or investigations into Mr Hs 
suitability for the agreement. Our service isnt the regulator, so it isnt my role to fine a 
business or set out new regulations for it to follow. But Id expect it to keep in mind its 
obligations when lending to ensure it does so responsibly.
But even if I felt WGC shouldve done more in this case, I dont think it would have changed 
WGCs decision to provide the credit. I say this as Mr H himself has said he didnt have an 
issue with affordability. Looking at his circumstances against the agreement and payments 
he signed up to, I agree with him that affordability wasnt a concern for him. And Ive seen no 
reason WGC shouldnt have offered this to him.
So it seems any checks it couldve completed wouldnt have changed the agreement going 
ahead. Particularly as Ive already outlined that Im satisfied Mr H was aware, or ought to 
have been aware of the terms of the agreement when signing it.
Mr H has raised concerns that he wasnt provided with SECCI pre-contract information which 
meant that he didnt fully understand the agreement. This can be provided verbally, so Id 
note there may not necessarily be a document handed to the customer. 
But businesses do have a responsibility to outline the details of the financial agreement, 
including the amount of credit and what happens when payments are missed. And as Ive 
mentioned above, Im satisfied the finance agreement covers all of the important information 
which enabled Mr H to make an informed choice as to whether he wanted to enter into it.Mr H is unhappy that WGC didnt provide a full final response to his complaint or referral 
rights to our service. In line with DISP 1.6.2 I agree WGCs response shouldve included 
referral rights to our service. However Mr H had already mentioned our service in an email 
from February 2020. From this its clear he was aware that he could bring a complaint to the 
service, which he did. So I cant agree this impacted him in any meaningful way.
For these reasons Im not upholding this complaint or directing WGC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman