DRN-2664161
The complaint
Ms A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) incorrectly blocked her account 
use.
What happened
Ms A says she was unable to use her account card and says her PIN was blocked. She says 
she was told this was due to her entering an incorrect PIN on three occasions which she 
doesnt accept. Ms A says this mistake meant she had to go to a RBS branch which caused 
her inconvenience.
RBS says Ms A used an incorrect PIN on three occasions which meant its security systems 
required the account card to be unblocked. It doesnt accept making a mistake and applied 
the block on 3 August 2020.
Ms A brought her complaint to us and has provided a receipt for 3 August 2020 which she 
says shows the transaction was cancelled and not declined. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator thought RBSs records showed that the PIN 
had been entered incorrectly and that the receipt showed the transaction hadnt gone 
through. The investigator didnt think in those circumstances RBS had made a mistake and 
was entitled to place security measures on the account.
Ms A doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms A will be disappointed by my decision.
Banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect their 
customers money and their own. Its not our role to a tell a business what those measures 
are or how they are operated.
I have looked carefully at RBSs records and can see it has a record on 3 August 2020 at 
about 14.03 that Ms A used an incorrect PIN when using her account card. I can also see 
that Ms As receipt form a few minutes later confirms that a previous card attempt was 
cancelled. So, I think on balance that its likely Ms A attempted to use her RBS account card 
which was declined and that the most likely reason for that was due to an incorrect PIN, 
which RBSs records confirm. I dont think it matters how the shop receipt records the failed 
transaction, as cancelled or card declined, as I think the important factor is that the 
transaction didnt go through as intended and that there must have been a reason for that.
It follows that I dont think RBS made a mistake in those circumstances by applying the 
account block. I appreciate that caused Ms A some inconvenience in attending a RBS 
branch but I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for that in these circumstances.
Overall, I dont think RBS acted unfairly and I have not seen any evidence that it incorrectly 
blocked Ms As account access or that it made a mistake by concluding she had used an 
incorrect PIN on the three occasions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman