DRN-3739562
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B are members of a holiday property bond (HPB) scheme. They were due to 
travel in November 2021. Unfortunately, due to a change in Mrs Bs health, they were unable 
to do so. 
They claimed on their travel insurance policy for non-refundable HPB user charges and car 
hire costs. Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that there was a general exclusion in 
the policy for HPBs. Mr and Mrs B complained to Great Lakes but they maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusion for HPBs. And, she didnt 
think that Great Lakes needed to pay the hire car costs because they were less than the 
excess payable on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. In summary 
they said that the main dispute was whether the HPB user charge was a maintenance fee. 
They said that timeshare maintenance fees werent the same as HPB user charges. And, 
they say that HPB user charges arent specifically excluded. So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions contain a general exclusion. It says there is no cover for 
claims arising as a result of the following:
Costs of telephone calls or faxes, meals, taxi fares  time share maintenance fees, 
holiday property bonds or points and any additional travel or accommodation costs 
unless pre-authorised by us. 
Im not upholding this complaint because I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to 
decline the claim. I say that because: 
The exclusion Ive outlined above says that it wont cover claims arising as a result of 
HPBs. 
I think Mr and Mrs Bs claim does arise from HPBs as they are claiming for user 
charges arising as a result of their HPB. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs comments that the user charge is different to 
a time share maintenance fee and that HPB user charges are not specifically listed in 
the exclusion. But, that hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. As Ive outlined above the term excludes claims arising from HPBs. So, I 
think Great Lakes can fairly rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. 
The car hire costs Mr and Mrs B were claiming for were approximately £130. This is 
less than the excess Mr and Mrs B needed to pay. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
that Great Lakes declined to pay these costs either. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman