DRN-4279132
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as C complains about the decision of QBE UK Limited 
to decline its business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
The following is only intended as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst other parties 
have been and remain involved in the dispute, I have largely just referred to C and QBE for 
the sake of simplicity. 
C operates as a financial advisory service and held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by QBE. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including business 
interruption. And C contacted QBE to claim for losses arising as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. C has, effectively, said that the main losses it has suffered have been related to a 
particular client that was unable to complete its own business plans due to the impact of the 
pandemic. And C claimed the loss of its fees for this contract. 
The claim was considered under the following clause in Cs policy:
11.1.10 Murder, suicide or disease
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the business 
as insured by this section caused by:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by any person 
whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it

It does not appear to be in dispute that there was a relevant manifestation of disease within 
the required geographical location. However, ultimately, QBE declined the claim for a 
number of other reasons. These included that:
1. it was not clear that the relevant fee for the client contract would have been paid 
within the period of insurance
2. the loss of fees was, in QBEs view, the result of issues between C and its client 
rather than interruption to Cs business, and 
3. the pandemic may have interrupted Cs clients business, but the losses claimed 
were unconnected to any interruption of Cs own business.
C brought its complaint about this to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But our Investigator 
didnt think QBE had come to an incorrect claim decision, and did not uphold the complaint. 
C remained unsatisfied with this. Much of the discussion focussed on points 1 and 2 above. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me for a decision. 
I wrote to C to set out my initial thoughts. I explained that, based on the available evidence, I 
was unable to agree that Cs own business had been interrupted or interfered with as a 
result of the relevant manifestation(s) of COVID-19. And that the issues experienced were, 
potentially, an interruption or interference with Cs clients business  which would not be 
covered by the policy. 
C responded, saying that there was no requirement in the policy that C needed to be 
physically unable to carry out its usual business activities. And that Cs business could be, 
and was, interfered with as a result of external or other factors. C referred to the wider 
effects of the pandemic, including on demand for services and existing deals, as being 
capable of leading to a successful claim. C referred to other businesses that have been able 
to successfully claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Fundamentally, Cs policy provides cover where there is an interruption or interference with 
its business as a result of  as far as is relevant here  COVID-19. I agree with C that there 
does not need to be a physical impediment to C carrying out its business or using its 
premises. But it is Cs business activity that needs to be impacted. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, C was able to and did continue to provide its services 
to its client(s). Instead, the issue here is that the services it provided, for one reason or 
another, did not lead to its client achieving its desired aims. And so, its client did not pay for 
these services.
It is quite possible that one of the reasons Cs client did not achieve its aims was due to the 
impact on that business from COVID-19. But this did not create an interruption or 
interference with C actually providing financial/commercial advice. It still provided advice and 
carried out its activities.
I appreciate Cs point that if the pandemic did impact Cs clients aims, this arguably 
interfered with the deal C was advising on. And I understand C considers this to be an 
interference with its business. 
I agree that changes in customer behaviour could potentially be a valid reason for a claim 
under Cs policy, for example public concern over COVID-19 would have led to a reduction 
in demand for certain types of business. However, I would not describe the issue C 
experienced with its client as being of this nature.
Cs business as far its policy is concerned is financial advisory services. And the policy 
provides cover where there is interruption of or interference with this business. Cs client still 
required financial/commercial advice  potentially its need for this increased as a result of 
the pandemic. So, there wasnt an interruption or interference in this need for Cs business. 
The issue was that Cs client no longer wanted to receive this service from C.
I appreciate there are a chain of interconnected events, and that the pandemic was one of 
the events that took place. But one of the issues that needs to be demonstrated is that the 
pandemic was the proximate cause of Cs losses. C has said that, were it not for the pandemic, the deal would have been completed within the 
indemnity period. It may be that, had there been no pandemic, the deal may have gone 
through prior to Cs client terminating the contract with C. This is by no means clear 
however. 
QBE considers that a breakdown in the relationship between C and its client was the main 
cause of Cs loss. And has pointed out that the related transaction did complete after Cs 
contract had been terminated. C has said that this breakdown and termination were as a 
result of the pandemic increasing strain on the relationship. 
However, I also note that the letter from Cs client terminating the contract states: 
I was not happy with the advice that you gave me, indeed pushed me towards just 
prior to lockdown being instigated in the UK.
This indicates the issues potentially started prior to any impact of COVID-19 on the deal. 
Taking all of this into account, I do not consider that the proximate cause of the losses C is 
claiming for was the COVID-19 pandemic, specifically a manifestation of this disease within 
25 miles of Cs premises. It follows that I consider QBE acted in line with the policy when 
declining Cs claim, and I cannot fairly and reasonably ask QBE to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman