DRN-3319065
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money hes lost 
to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr P has fallen victim to an investment scam.
He says that, after looking at investment opportunities on social media, he received contact 
from a person who offered him the chance to invest in bitcoin with an FCA-regulated 
company, with guaranteed returns of £10,000 per month. 
At first, Mr P sent money to the person directly. Then he began to make debit card payments 
to a legitimate third-party payment processing/cryptocurrency exchange platform, and his 
funds were moved from there into an online trading account that had been set-up for him. 
Mr P made the following payments:
Date of transaction Type of transaction Amount
22 January 2020 Faster payment £300.00
22 January 2020 Faster payment £200.00
25 January 2020 Faster payment £300.00
27 January 2020 Debit card payment £1,013.35
6 February 2020 Debit card payment £1,000.00
18 February 2020 Debit card payment £4,000.00
20 February 2020 Debit card payment £2,000.00
20 February 2020 Debit card payment £400.00
25 February 2020 Debit card payment £2,000.00
2 March 2020 Debit card payment £5,000.00
5 March 2020 Debit card payment £2,000.00
5 March 2020 Debit card payment £2,000.00
6 March 2020 Debit card payment £2,000.00
Mr P says he could see from his online trading account that he was making a lot of profit. But 
every time he asked for money to be released to him, he was told he needed to pay a 
release fee. He paid the fees as requested, but he never received any returns and, 
eventually, he reported the matter to Halifax.
Halifax declined his fraud claim. It said that he didnt do sufficient checks on the legitimacy of 
the investment opportunity (which felt too good to be true) or the person he was paying. It 
also confirmed that no funds remained in the account Mr P sent money to via faster 
payments, and there were no chargeback rights in relation to the debit card payments as 
Mr P received the service he paid for.
Mr P asked this Service to consider a complaint against Halifax for declining to reimburse his 
losses. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P asked 
for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Faster payments
Halifax has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr P fell victim to when he made the faster 
payments, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax has argued that one of the 
exceptions applies in this case. Its said that Mr P made the faster payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was 
transacting with was legitimate.
In thinking about whether Mr P had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payments. And, considering everything, Im not 
persuaded that Mr P had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps said that, before making the payments, he did some general research about 
investment in bitcoin, and he saw some positive reviews. He was also told that the company 
he was investing with was FCA-regulated. But I consider the returns he was guaranteed to 
be too good to be true. And having looked at the communication Mr P received during the 
scam, I must say that it doesnt look at all professional or convincing. It contains lots of 
spelling errors (even Mr Ps name has been mis-spelt), its grammatically incorrect in many 
places and some of it looks templated.
In the circumstances, I wouldve expected Mr P, or anyone else, to be put on guard. But he 
doesnt appear to have taken any substantial steps to check the legitimacy of the investment 
opportunity, or the person he was paying.
For completeness, I should say that considering the low value of these three payments, and 
Mr Ps prior account activity, I dont think its reasonable to expect Halifaxs fraud detection 
system to have been triggered, or to expect Halifax to have given Mr P an effective warning under the CRM Code. And Im not persuaded that Halifax couldve reasonably done more to 
recover Mr Ps funds once hed reported the fraud to it.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to decline reimbursement of 
the faster payments.
Debit card transactions
Its common ground that Mr P authorised and consented to these payments under the 
Payment Services Regulations. He made genuine payments to the legitimate third-party 
payment processing/cryptocurrency exchange platform using the debit card thats linked to 
his Halifax account. He was not defrauded in the sense that someone else made the 
payments from his account without his knowledge or consent and/or he wasnt tricked into 
making payments to an unintended destination. So, the starting point is that Halifax had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ps payment instructions, and Mr P is presumed liable for his loss in 
the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are circumstances in which a 
bank should make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases, 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. I consider that Halifax should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ive looked at Mr Ps account statements in the six months leading up to the scam, and Im 
not persuaded that there was a reasonable indication of financial harm that I wouldve 
expected Halifax to pick up on. The debit card transactions were for relatively modest 
amounts, and genuine transactions for much higher amounts had left the account recently. 
They were made over a period of 5-6 weeks and mixed with lots of other genuine 
transactions. They were also in line with prior account activity, and Mr Ps account wasnt 
quickly drained of funds as is generally the way in cases of fraud. 
I understand that Halifax hasnt instigated chargebacks to try to recover Mr Ps money, but 
banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks clear that the cardholder would lose. Here, 
Im satisfied thats the case. Ive looked at the card schemes chargeback reasons and 
I dont think that any chargeback the bank mightve raised in these circumstances had a 
reasonable prospect of success. Thats because Mr P seems to have got what he paid for. 
So, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in this respect.
Conclusions
Im very sorry that Mr P has been the victim of a scam. I can see that this matter has caused 
him a lot of distress. But I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong here. So, I dont think 
it would be fair or reasonable to require Halifax to reimburse Mr Ps loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman