DRN-2193516
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim they made on their
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D were unfortunate victims of a break in while they were out visiting a friend. 
After discovering their home had been broken into, they called the police and their insurer, 
AXA, to make a claim for the items that had been stolen.
AXA declined their claim. It said Mrs D and Mr Ds policy has a security requirement on it 
that hadnt been met. It said Mrs D and Mr Ds property had been broken into via the French 
doors at the rear, and that the policy required these doors to have bolts at the top and 
bottom of each leaf. It said the loss adjusters report showed only one leaf had bolts on the 
top and bottom, so it declined their claim.
Mrs D and Mr D disagreed. They said the French doors granted access to the conservatory, 
and once inside there was another set of doors to the main property. They said they
intended to take the conservatory down and as such it should be considered an outbuilding.
They felt it would be fairer to treat the door to the kitchen from the conservatory as the point
of entry. They said this door was more secure.
AXA disagreed that the conservatory should be considered an outbuilding. It said it may
have been Mrs D and Mr Ds intention to demolish it, but that it appeared on the plans for the
building so considered it a part of the building. AXA said even if it were to consider the door
to the kitchen to be the point of entry  which it didnt  it would still decline Mrs D and Mr Ds
claim. It said the security requirements of the policy required all external doors to be fitted
with BS3621 level locks. It said the door Mrs D and Mr D think should be considered as the
point of entry had a deadlock on - which wasnt in use at the time of the burglary - and a Yale
lock. So it didnt think this met the requirements of the policy either.
Mrs D and Mr D remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator
looked into it and thought it should be upheld. She thought Mrs D and Mr D hadnt met the
security requirements of the policy but thought that them not doing so wasnt material to the
loss. I.e. even if Mrs D and Mr D had met the requirements of the policy, she thought
considering the force used and the state of the property after the break in, the theft would
have happened anyway.
AXA disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it was entitled to decline the
claim as the requirements of the policy hadnt been met.
I issued a provisional decision which said I was thinking of coming to a different answer to 
our investigator. It said I wasnt thinking of upholding the complaint. It said:
The terms and conditions of Mrs D and Mr Ds policy set out what AXA will and wont cover
them for. But it also outlines what steps Mrs D and Mrs D need to take themselves to ensure
theyre covered.
In this case, Mrs D and Mr Ds policy required them to secure their property in a certain way.
Namely that any French doors needed to have bolts at the top and bottom of each leaf, and
that any external doors needed to be fitted with BS3621 level locks. Ive seen this
requirement on the policy schedule and on the renewal documents, so Im satisfied AXA did
what it needed to do to make Mrs D and Mr D aware of it. The requirement also made it
clear that if this requirement wasnt met, Mrs D and Mr D wouldnt be covered for theft.
In this case Im satisfied the reports show the likely point of entry was through the French
doors of the conservatory. Ive considered whether this should be treated as the point of
entry, or whether it would be fairer, as Mrs D and Mr D have suggested, to use the door to
the kitchen - inside the conservatory - as the point of entry. Im satisfied AXA are acting
reasonably by saying the French doors were the point of entry. I say this as while it may
have been the intention to take the conservatory down - Ive seen the planning applications
confirming this intent - at the time of the break in, it was still in place and considered - as per
the planning applications - part of the main property.
As Im satisfied AXA assess the claim with the French doors as the point of entry, I see no
need to look at the locks in place on the door between the conservatory and the kitchen as
this would be deemed an internal door, and theres no security requirement here.
Ive looked to see if its fair to decline Mrs D and Mr Ds claim because the security
requirements on the French doors wasnt met. At the time of the break in, only one door had
bolts on the top and bottom, the other was secured only by a lock to the other door. Its clear
then that the security requirements of the policy werent met.
Our investigator also thought this requirement hadnt been met. But she thought it had no
effect on the theft. She thought had the security requirement been met, the theft would have
likely still happened so didnt think it was fair AXA rely on it to decline the claim.
I can see why our investigator thought this. An insurer can only rely on a term to decline a
claim if its material to the loss. And its true in this case that the theft might still have
occurred had Mrs D and Mr D met the security requirement. But Im satisfied AXA can fairly
rely on this term. The security requirement of the policy needed Mrs D and Mr D to take
steps to secure their property in order to be covered for theft. In this case, those steps
werent taken, and the point of entry into the property was through the doors where these
steps hadnt been taken, so Mrs D and Mr D arent covered for the theft.
It follows that Im satisfied AXA is acting fairly and in line with the policy terms when
declining Mrs D and Mr Ds claim.
Neither Mrs D and Mr D, nor AXA responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I received no response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
findings. Therefore, my decision remains the same for the reasons set out in the provisional 
decision outlined above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman