DRN-1762435
The complaint
Mr R complains about the actions of Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as 
Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited (Cabot) when trying to recover two debts it acquired from 
another business.
 
What happened
Mr R had two credit card debts with a different business that were in default. In July 2017 
Cabot was assigned the debts from the original lender. Cabot wrote to Mr R at the address it 
held on file with notices of assignment. Cabot contacted Mr R about the outstanding debts 
and asked him to make contact to discuss options to repay them. 
In June 2018 Mr R asked Cabot to send him the relevant credit agreements for the credit 
cards. Cabot was unable to obtain the documents Mr R asked to see and confirmed the 
debts are unenforceable. But Cabot said it could still ask Mr R to make repayments. 
Cabot later traced Mr R to an address and sent agents to visit him. Mr R says the agents 
caused embarrassment when they visited him and the Police had to be called. Cabot says 
the agents werent there to collect the debt but try and arrange contact between it and Mr R. 
Mr Rs son has contacted Cabot and advised he holds Power of Attorney (POA) to act. But 
Cabot said no POA document had been shared and wasnt able to discuss the account with 
Mr Rs son. 
Mr R complained and Cabot responded on 18 October 2019. Cabot said it hadnt been 
provided a POA document so couldnt discuss the accounts with Mr Rs son. Cabot 
confirmed that because it was unable to comply with the Consumer Credit Agreement 
request the debt is unenforceable but said it remained outstanding and collectable. Cabot 
said it had written to Mr R to try and engage and had taken the decision to send agents to 
his home. Cabot explained that it hadnt been made aware of any vulnerabilities Mr R had 
and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr R referred the complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He said 
Cabot had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly and that it could still try to recover the 
outstanding balances. Mr R asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised several concerns about Cabots actions. Im going to start by talking about 
Cabots refusal to deal with Mr Rs son. Cabot can only discuss private information with an 
authorised individual and it hasnt been sent a copy of a POA document that shows Mr Rs 
son is entitled to act on his behalf. Without seeing the POA document, I wouldnt expect 
Cabot to accept instructions from anyone except Mr R. I havent found Cabot has made an 
error by continuing to correspond with Mr R instead of his son. 
All parties agree that the debt is unenforceable because Cabot isnt able to comply with 
Mr Rs Consumer Credit Agreement request. Cabot says that the debts remain collectable. I 
am sorry to disappoint Mr R but I agree with Cabot. Whilst Cabot may not be able to enforce 
the debts in court, there is nothing that says it cant continue to try and arrange a suitable 
repayment option with Mr R. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I dont agree that Cabot is 
acting unfairly by asking him to repay the outstanding balances. 
Mr R has told us he is vulnerable, has no assets and a limited income. I note Mr R didnt 
respond to our investigators request for a more detailed picture of his circumstances, but I 
see no reason to doubt what hes told us. Where its clear to a business there is no 
reasonable prospect of arranging an affordable repayment plan because of the consumers 
circumstances I would expect it to consider whether its reasonable to continue collection 
action. But here, Mr R hasnt engaged with Cabot and it doesnt have any picture of his 
finances or circumstances. Given Mr R hasnt given information to Cabot that will allow it to 
assess his circumstances and verify he is vulnerable, I think its continued attempts to 
recover the debts are reasonable. 
Mr R says the agents sent by Cabot caused embarrassment at his residence and that the 
Police had to be called. But Cabot hadnt received any recent contact from Mr R. Cabot has 
explained the agents it sent werent there to collect the debt but to try and arrange contact 
with Mr R by passing him a mobile phone. Had Mr R taken the phone, he wouldve been 
connected to a collections agent to discuss the debts. The industry regulations say a 
business can send agents to a consumers home in relation to unpaid debts, so Im unable to 
agree Cabot acted unfairly or broke the rules by taking that step. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter, but I havent 
been persuaded to uphold his complaint. Im satisfied Cabot can still attempt recovery of the 
debts, even though they arent enforceable. Cabot is allowed to send agents to contact 
consumers about debts. Whilst I understand Mr R may not be in a position to repay the 
outstanding balances, Cabot hasnt been given any evidence to show that. I think its 
continued contact with Mr R is reasonable. As Im satisfied Cabot dealt with Mr Rs complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman