DRN-3228154
The complaint
Mrs L complains that TSB Bank plc doesnt provide information about the end date of her 
balance transfers on her statements or online banking. 
What happened
Mrs L carried out two 0% balance transfers. She says that although she was told at the time 
of the transfer when the rate would come to an end and that TSB would inform her when the 
rate was nearer the end date, the end date didnt appear on her credit card statements or 
online banking. She says that she could call to find out the information, but she shouldnt 
have to do this and that the information should be included in her regular statements. She 
didnt think that TSB was meeting the need to keep customers informed between the start 
and end points of the transfer. 
TSB issued its final response letter in May 2021. It didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. It said 
that when a balance transfer was completed the customer was told how many months the 
balance transfer offer is available for. It said it wasnt its process to include this on the 
statements.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that TSB provided Mrs L with the 
information about the duration of the 0% transfer on two separate documents and had said it 
would contact her nearer the end date. He thought this showed that TSB had provided Mrs L 
with the required information and that it had followed its process and not treated Mrs L 
unfairly. 
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she should be kept informed and 
while she could have called with the opening hours and queues this wasnt convenient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs L thinks that the end date of her balance transfers should be included 
in her regular statements or on online banking. While I appreciate why she would like this to 
happen, and I note the TSB has said that it has fed this back to the relevant department, I 
have to consider whether TSB has done anything wrong in regard to the information it has 
provided and whether Mrs L has been treated fairly and reasonably.
In this case I think that TSB has acted reasonably. Mrs L opened her credit card account in 
September 2020 and was provided with the pre-contract credit information and credit card 
agreement. These set out the promotional rates for balance transfers available at that time 
including the following information:
0% p.a. for Balance Transfers you make in the first 90 days after we open your account. 
This rate is fixed for 29 months from the date we open your account.
Mrs L has confirmed she was provided with the end date when she did the balance 
transfers. Therefore, it isnt in dispute that Mrs L was provided with the information she 
needed to make an informed decision about the balance transfers.
Mrs L has mentioned the smarter communication initiative and that treating customers fairly 
means that TSB should keep customers appropriately informed before, during and after the 
point of sale. She feels it isnt keeping her informed after the point of sale. While I appreciate 
the comments Mrs L has made, as she was provided with the information she needed to 
make the initial decision; has been told that she will be contacted before the balance 
transfers come to an end; and the agreement sets out further information regarding balance 
transfers I think TSB is providing a reasonable amount of information.
TSB has explained it isnt its policy to include the balance transfer end dates in the regular 
statements, and so I cannot say that TSB has treated Mrs L any differently to anyone else or 
acted outside of its terms or usual procedures by not including this information. Mrs Ls 
statements do include the date of the balance transfer and based on this Mrs L would be 
able to work out the end date if needed. She could also contact TSB at any time to find out 
this information and while I appreciate her comments about this it is an option available to 
her. 
Overall, while I understand why Ms L would like to see the end date information on her 
regular statements I do not find the approach TSB has taken means that Mrs L is being 
treated unfairly or has not been provided with the information she needs. Therefore, I do not 
find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman