DRN-3921404
The complaint
The estate of Mr C1 complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt 
do enough to protect Mr C1 from becoming a victim of fraud. 
Mr C1s estate is represented by his son, Mr C2.
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont intend to go into too much 
detail here. However, it may be helpful to summarise the background briefly:
What Mr C2 (on behalf of Mr C1s estate) has said:
Mr C2 has raised concerns about his father being financially abused from 1999 onwards. 
Hes raised questions about specific groups of transactions from 2015 onwards. 
Mr C2 has said his fathers ex-partner and main caregiver, as well as some other people, 
were able to take advantage of Mr C1 as a vulnerable adult and make numerous cash 
withdrawals and card payments from his account. 
Mr C2 has told us his father suffered a head injury in 1999 which affected him for the 
remainder of his life. Mr C2 has said that after this head injury, Mr C1s personality changed, 
and he was medically retired. Mr C2 says from this point onwards, his father was considered 
vulnerable. Mr C2 says it was also around this time that his father entered into a relationship 
with a woman, who I will refer to as Ms G, who financially and physically abused him.
At the time, Mr C1 was receiving about £12,000 a year in benefits and Mr C2 now believes 
this was being taken from him. Mr C2 says Halifax failed to identify that Mr C1 was likely 
being financially abused and it did nothing to protect him. Mr C2 says the bank shouldve 
been aware that his father was vulnerable at the time given his unkept appearance and 
physical disabilities. Mr C2 says his father had a speech impairment and was unable to use 
one arm following a stroke. 
Mr C1s estate are concerned about transactions from August 2015 onwards. Mr C2 says 
that despite money going into his account during this period, Mr C1 was often left unable to 
pay his bills or able to properly afford to look after himself. Hes also told us that Mr C1 spent 
considerable amounts of time in hospital during this period, but his account continued to be 
used as normal.  
Mr C2 has also questioned a £3,000 loan that Mr C1 was able to take out in 2019. Mr C2 
doesnt think Mr C1 shouldve been granted the loan due to his status as a vulnerable adult 
and because hed made multiple complaints about fraud in the moments prior. Mr C2 says 
the loan funds paid into his fathers account were quickly utilised and they werent used for 
the purpose his father had given to the bank  a new kitchen. 
Mr C2 also complains about a number of transactions to two online retailers in September 
and November 2020 and some transactions that took place after his father had sadly passed 
away.
Mr C2 says when he realised what had been happening in November 2020, he reported the 
fraud to Halifax straightaway, but Halifax didnt look into his concerns until 2021 and it has 
since not responded to the majority of his emails. 
Mr C2 has reported the suspected fraudulent activity to the police but they have concluded 
there is not enough evidence to pursue a conviction against Ms G or anyone else.
What Halifax has said 
Halifax accepted that it hadnt handled Mr C2s complaint well and it offered him £500 by way 
of an apology. 
It said it had listened to a recording of the loan application that took place in branch and it 
was satisfied that it had done all it could to support Mr C1 during the application process and 
the loan had been affordable for him based on the income and expenditure details he had 
provided. Halifax said it wouldnt have been reasonable for it to have declined Mr C1s loan 
application because of his noted disabilities. In fact, this would likely be considered 
discrimination and it wouldnt be reasonable to have declined the loan on the basis that Mr 
C1 had previously raised successful fraud claims either. Halifax went on to say that there 
wasnt anything suspicious about the transactions that then left the account after the loan 
funds had been paid in and so it didnt think it had done anything wrong in allowing them to 
be processed at the time. 
Halifax said it was aware Mr C1 had been giving his debit card to his ex-partner so she could 
withdraw cash for him or get him shopping when he was unable to do so himself. The bank 
therefore felt that Mr C1 had most likely consented to and benefited from some of the 
transactions that Mr C2 was now disputing and therefore the bank wouldnt look to offer Mr 
C1s estate a refund now. Halifax did refund the online transactions that took place as it 
could be proved that these purchases werent made in Mr C1s name. 
Mr C1s estate disagreed with what Halifax said and so they brought their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Whilst she 
sympathised with Mr C1s estate, she said that Mr C1 had likely consented to the 
transactions now in dispute. 
Mr C1s estate disagreed. They reiterated that Mr C1 had been financially abused for a 
number of years and that he had been failed by multiple agencies who should have 
supported him as a vulnerable adult. 
Mr C2 said it wasnt possible for his father to have consented to the transactions as he 
lacked the mental capacity to be able to do so following his accident in 1999 and regardless, 
a person with capacity wouldnt consent to someone taking their debit card and draining their 
bank account. Mr C2 stressed that it was his aim to ensure the people responsible were held 
accountable and to ensure the bank put additional measures in place to stop what happened 
to his father happening to other vulnerable people. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator  for the same 
reasons. 
I appreciate that this is going to be extremely disappointing for Mr C1s estate given the 
emotive issues involved but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require that 
Halifax refund the disputed transactions that left Mr C1s account now. 
Before I go on to explain my reasoning in more detail, I firstly want to acknowledge the 
detailed submissions Mr C2 has put forward in support of this complaint. Id like to assure 
him that I have read everything he has provided in its entirety. However, I dont intend to 
respond in similar detail. Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points and the crux 
of the complaint. And if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to 
reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
I also want to make clear that much of the information provided by Mr C1s estate relates to 
Mr C1s medical condition(s), his living situation, his interaction with his friends, family and 
neighbours, his stints in hospital and in a care home and his interaction with social services 
and the police. I understand that from 1999 onwards, Mr C1s estate feel that Mr C1 was let 
down by numerous different agencies who should have had structures in place to protect 
him. 
Having gone through all of the documentation provided, some of which is upsetting to read, I 
understand Mr C1s estates strength of feeling about what happened to Mr C1 but I also 
have to remind the estate that this is a complaint about Mr C1s bank. And it is my role to 
look into the transactions now disputed by the estate and decide if the bank did anything 
wrong in allowing them to be processed and / or whether it shouldve done more than it did 
to protect Mr C1 from financial harm from fraud. When doing so, I have to bear in mind, that 
the bank would not have been party to or privy to the majority of Mr C1s interactions with his 
friends, family and neighbours or any of the other agencies I have referred to above. And so, 
in the main, it would not have been aware that there were concerns about Mr C1s on-going 
health or living situation. It is important for me to stress from the outset that no Power of 
Attorney was ever put in place in regard to Mr C1s finances and the bank was not informed 
during any of the periods now in question that Mr C1 mightve lacked the capacity to manage 
his own finances.  
Transactions made from November 2015 to 15 August 2018
Ive reviewed Mr C1s account statements for this period and I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that Halifax shouldve been concerned about the activity on his account. The account is generally used within the account balance and the transactions form a similar 
pattern  cash withdrawals often take place following the receipt of Mr C1s benefits into the 
account. 
I understand that Mr C1 may not have been taking care of himself during this period and that 
his living conditions may not have been ideal. But Ive seen no evidence that persuades me 
that the funds being paid into Mr C1s account during this period were being spent without 
his knowledge or consent. And Im not persuaded that it is plausible to suggest Mr C1 
couldve spent nearly three years without access to, or without benefitting from, any of his 
own funds. At a minimum, he wouldve had to have met his daily living expenses during this 
period. I also cant ignore that a number of the submissions provided by Mr C1s estate refer 
to Mr C1 dealing with some addictions during this period, which Mr C1 wouldve likely 
needed to withdraw cash out to pay for. As Mr C1 is sadly no longer with us, it is not possible 
for me to say with any certainty what happened at the time and I understand that it is difficult 
for Mr C1s estate to say with any certainty what has happening either. I understand that 
they had little contact with Mr C1 during this period due to their relationship having broken 
down and the speculation of his estate is not enough. I wouldve only expected the bank to 
have intervened if there were any specific concerns raised about the account or if the 
transactions looked suspicious to them and Im not persuaded I can say that here. 
I also have to bear in mind that Mr C1 raises a number of fraud complaints with Halifax in 
2019 but he does not mention any of the transactions made during this period which 
suggests to me that Mr C1 wasnt concerned about them at the time. 
Transactions carried out between 15 August 2018 and 2 October 2018
During this period, Mr C1 is in hospital. However, his account continues to be used in the 
way it was before - albeit there are more spends in food stores and more cash withdrawals. I 
take on board the arguments Mr C1s estate has put forward here. I agree that its most likely 
the transactions taking place during this period were being carried out by someone other 
than Mr C1 and I agree its unlikely that all of the transactions were being made for the sole 
benefit of C1. And whilst I understand that Mr C1s estate believe the amounts withdrawn 
during this period amount to far more than Mr C1 wouldve needed for his daily living 
expenses, this isnt enough, in and of itself, for me to be able to conclude that Mr C1s 
account was being used without his authorisation.
The Payment Service Regulations which apply to the transactions in question here, allow for 
payment transactions to be initiated by someone acting on behalf of a customer with their 
authority. And it is not in dispute that Mr C1 had given his card and PIN to his ex-partner, Ms 
G, to withdraw cash and buy shopping for him using his debit card. By giving his card and 
PIN to Ms G, Mr C1 permitted her to undertake the procedure for giving consent to transact 
on his account. Essentially, Ms G had apparent authority to transact on Mr C1s account from 
this point onwards unless Mr C1s consent was withdrawn. And this is the case for 
transactions that Mr C1 may not even have been aware of. 
Having said the above, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Mr C1 was aware of 
the activity on his account. Mr C1 is questioned about these transactions at the time and he 
confirms that he is aware Ms G is using the account (for her own benefit) and he is happy to 
let her do so and lend her money. So, even though I am persuaded that it was not Mr C1 
carrying out the transactions in person, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that 
the transactions were being made without Mr C1s authorisation. It appears Mr C1 willingly 
gave his card and PIN to this person to allow them to transact on his account on his behalf 
and for their own benefit. Again, I also have to bear in mind, as I have said above, that Mr C1 raises a number of 
transactions that he doesnt recognise with Halifax in 2019. Mr C1 says he thinks a 
neighbour may have been able to access his debit card and he is specific about the 
transactions he doesnt recognise relatively quickly after they debit his account. But Mr C1 
does not mention any of the transactions made during this period in his complaints to Halifax 
at the time. This suggests to me that Mr C1 was able to monitor his account to some degree 
at the time and identify transactions he didnt recognise but that he was concerned about the 
transactions raised here.
The £3,000 loan
In 2019, Mr C1 went into his local Halifax branch and requested to take out a £3,000 loan for 
a new kitchen. The loan was granted, and the funds were paid into Mr C1s account. Mr C2 
has told us that by mid-January 2020, all of the funds had been spent and it is apparent that 
no new kitchen / kitchen improvements were purchased. 
I understand that Mr C1s estate is of the opinion that this loan should not have been 
granted. By this point, Mr C1 had a history of successful fraud claims and Mr C2 has told us 
Mr C1 wouldve appeared dishevelled in branch and unable to communicate clearly. I 
understand why Mr C2 feels so strongly about this. But I agree with Halifax that it would have 
been inappropriate to have declined Mr C1s credit application because hed been a victim of 
fraud in the past and because his physical disabilities had made it more difficult for him to 
communicate. I also think it wouldve been inappropriate for Halifax to have assessed Mr 
C1s ability to understand what he was requesting based on his physical appearance. There 
was no indication that Mr C1 wasnt able to make his own financial decisions. 
Having said the above, I do agree with Mr C2 that all of the above shouldve put Halifax on 
notice that Mr C1 might need extra support, but I dont think it would be fair to say that 
Halifax were on notice that Mr C1 was likely suffering from financial abuse or that he lacked 
the mental capacity to understand what was taking place. 
Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that Mr C1 was coerced into taking out the loan or 
that he mightve been accompanied to the meeting with the bank by someone forcing him to 
take it out against his wishes. The bank made adaptions to the way it communicated with Mr 
C1 and having listened to a recording of this meeting, I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that Mr C1 wasnt aware of what he was requesting and agreeing to at the 
time. 
Mr C1 told branch staff the purpose of the loan and his income and expenditure. I can also 
see that he continued to maintain the loan re-payments for some time afterwards too. And 
so, I dont agree with Mr C1s estate that Mr C1 didnt meet the requirements for the loan. 
And I dont think it wouldve been for Halifax to have made a judgement call as to his 
capacity based on his physical disabilities and appearance when he presented himself in 
branch. The bank had not been provided with anything at the time that suggested Mr C1 
lacked capacity to understand and manage his own finances. 
The transactions that then leave the account after the loan has been granted are generally 
in-line with the previous spending activity on the account and I havent seen anything that 
wouldve warranted intervention by Halifax. It is not for Halifax to monitor the account to 
ensure that Mr C1 spends the money as he has said he would. Once the funds have been 
credited it is for Mr C1 to spend his funds as he wishes and theres no evidence that he didnt 
benefit from them. And at no point following the receipt of these funds does Mr C1 report any 
of these transactions as fraudulent. I note that the bank has already written off the remainder of the loan debt and as such, I 
wont be asking them to take any further action. 
18 September 2020 onwards
Mr C1 is hospitalised due to a stroke. He is transferred to a care home and then hospitalised 
again. He sadly passes away on 21 November 2021. 
During this period, Mr C1s estate has highlighted that his account continues to be used to 
make online transactions, point of sale transactions and ATM withdrawals. Based on the 
evidence Mr C2 has been able to provide it does appear that another unknown third-party 
has got access to Mr C1s card details at this point in order to make the online transactions. I 
understand that these transactions have now been refunded to Mr C1s estate. So I wont be 
commenting further on them here. 
The remainder of the evidence presented to me suggests Mr C1s ex-partner was still being 
allowed access to Mr C1s debit card and was visiting him and providing him with basic 
items. This is recorded by the care home that Mr C1 was residing in at the time. 
So, whilst I do take on board Mr C2s submissions that the funds used / withdrawn amounted 
to far more than what was required to purchase the items that are recorded as being brought 
for Mr C1, I have not been presented with any evidence that persuades me that Mr C1 didnt 
benefit from at least some of the funds or that he had withdrawn his consent for his ex-
partner to transact on his account. 
Again, I have to stress that Halifax werent informed that Mr C1 was unable to manage his 
own finances at the time due to him being in hospital / care and so I cant fairly say that 
based on the account activity alone, Halifax shouldve identified the transactions as 
suspicious or that it shouldve restricted the account. 
Consent
In response to our investigators view, Mr C1s estate said Mr C1 had fluctuating mental 
capacity during the periods the transactions under discussion here were taking place and 
that he may have lacked capacity to deal with his own finances from as far back as 1999 
when he first suffered his head injury. At the very least, it was put forward that Mr C1 did not 
have the capacity to consent to anyone else using his account, or to understand the 
consequences of allowing access to the funds in his account. Mr C2 has said he believes 
that no person with mental capacity would give someone else their debit card and allow 
them to drain their account of funds to the point they cannot pay their bills. 
I have not been provided with any evidence that persuades me that Mr C1 was deemed to 
not have mental capacity from 1999 onwards and no protection orders were put in place 
which would suggest this was the case at the time. 
I am aware that there is evidence of a conversation between a police officer and Mr C1 when 
Mr C1 is in hospital where the police officer raises concerns that Mr C1 may not fully 
understand the consequences of giving people access to his card and PIN due to his brain 
injury. But what I cant see is that the bank was ever informed of these concerns or that a 
Power of Attorney was ever put in place as requested. And as Ive said above, the bank, 
unless informed, would not have been privy to these conversations. 
Alternatively, Halifaxs notes suggest Mr C1 was actively managing his accounts during the 
period in question. And based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear that there were any significant concerns raised with the bank about Mr C1 being potentially vulnerable until 2019 
and even then, the bank were informed that Mr C1 might need extra support due to his 
physical disabilities, not that he couldnt exercise judgement over his finances at all. And so it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Halifax shouldve been on notice that he had fluctuating 
capacity during this period if it hadnt actually been told this information by the police, social 
services, Mr C1, his family or anyone else. The bank cannot simply be expected to make this 
assumption based on Mr C1s appearance and other disabilities. 
Halifax has an obligation to process transactions at its customers requests or otherwise 
authorises and it appears that this is what it has done here and so I cant fairly ask Halifax to 
offer Mr C1s estate a refund of these transactions now.
Finally, I want to acknowledge Mr C2s concerns that no one with capacity to manage their 
own finances would allow unfettered access to their account at their own detriment. I 
appreciate why this would objectively appear unusual to a third-party looking in. However, 
people can, and they often do  especially those who rely on a specific person to support 
their day to day needs. As Mr C1 is no longer with us, I have no way to establish what type 
of agreement was in place here. But I have been provided with enough evidence to allow me 
to say that it is more likely than not that an agreement was in place. Mr C1 appears to have 
confirmed more than once that Ms G was allowed access to the account and he was happy 
to lend her money  despite how unpalatable this may seem to others. 
As such it would now be unreasonable to say there was no agreement between Mr C1 and 
Ms G and so it would be unreasonable to now say that Mr C1s account was being used 
during this period without his knowledge or consent or that he wasnt benefiting from at least 
some of the spending from the account. 
Summary
A payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. In this case, its not in dispute that Mr C1s ex-partner was his main 
caregiver and the records show that Mr C1 was allowing his ex-partner to use his debit card 
up until shortly before his death, so he consented to the transactions. Under the PSRs, Mr 
C1 gave his ex-partner apparent authority to withdraw from his account. And once account 
details are handed over to a third party, the account holder consents to the transactions 
made by them, even if the third party ultimately takes more than intended. For the purposes 
of the PSRs these transactions would be authorised by the customer too.
Service issues
When a complaint about an estate is raised with us, we wont generally award compensation 
for distress. The estate is a legal entity and cannot suffer distress. However, I recognise that 
the bank failed to investigate the complaint in a timely manner and there were delays. Im 
pleased to see that the bank independently awarded £500 for the inconvenience caused. I 
think this is fair under the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to pay any more.
Finally, I want to say how sorry I was to read of Mr C1s passing and his final years. My 
sincerest condolences to his family. I understand that this must have been a difficult time and 
I am sorry that my decision will likely be very disappointing for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc  trading 
as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr 
C1 to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman