DRN-3950008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited incorrectly advised them 
to take a bridging loan, which was unsuitable for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an interest only mortgage with lender A. In 2016, the term of that 
mortgage ended and the capital balance became due. But Mr and Mrs B were unable to 
repay the mortgage.
On 31 January 2017, Lighthouse sent Mr B a letter  I cant see that one was addressed to 
Mrs B. The letter said there were two options available to Mr and Mrs B, an equity release 
mortgage or a bridging loan. 
The letter said that while an equity release mortgage would raise enough to repay the 
mortgage with lender A, Mr and Mrs B would have to pay a penalty if the mortgage was 
repaid within the first two years. As they planned to sell their home, that was not the best 
option.
Lighthouse said the bridging loan would give Mr and Mrs B the funds to repay lender A and 
to fund a loft conversion. It said that the term would be for 12 months, but if there was a 
buyer for their home and it goes beyond 12 months there would be some flexibility. 
Lighthouse said that the bridging loan was the most appropriate option for Mr and Mrs B. 
On 6 September 2018, Mr and Mrs B completed an application form for a bridging loan. It 
said the purpose of the loan was to repay the mortgage with lender A, which had expired. 
The bridging loan would be repaid by the sale of the property, which had been on the market 
for 12 months.  
On 9 September 2018, Lighthouse wrote to Mr and Mrs B. It said that it had met with Mr and 
Mrs B the previous week and that they wished to proceed with the bridging loan. Lighthouse 
said it thought this was the best course of action and if the property hadnt sold after 12 
months then it would look at a mortgage with a later life lender.
Mr and Mrs B accepted Lighthouses recommendation and went ahead with the bridging 
loan. It was for £120,507.17 plus fees of £3,635.42 over a term of 12 months. Interest was 
0.53% a month, with interest added to the loan balance. 
At the end of the 12 month term in October 2019, Mr and Mrs B had not found a buyer for 
their home. The lender has extended the term of the loan a number of times. The bridging 
loan was repaid when the property was sold in October 2021
Mr and Mrs B are represented by their daughter. She complains, in summary:
Mr and Mrs B were vulnerable. If they had been told to talk to lender A it was likely to 
have given them more time to sell their home. Lighthouse took advantage of their 
vulnerability.
There was never a clear way to repay the mortgage  at the time of advice theyd been 
trying to sell their homes for years and at least one sale had fallen through.
Mr and Mrs Bs vulnerability would have been clear to Lighthouse when it visited them.
Mr and Mrs B have had to extend the bridging loan a number of times. When the house 
is sold, Mr B will no longer be left with enough money to buy another home.
I issued a provisional decision, upholding the complaint in part. My provisional findings, 
which form part of this decision, were, in summary:
Lighthouse had not acted fairly or reasonably in giving Mr and Mrs B advice:
It failed to identify they were vulnerable.
It did not take reasonable steps to gather all relevant information about Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
It did not explain the reasons for its recommendations properly  it did not set out the 
significant risks of taking the bridging loan.
It should have encouraged Mr and Mrs B to speak to lender A in 2018. 
But:
It wasnt unreasonable for Lighthouse to recommend the bridging loan. While it might not 
have been suitable for Mr and Mrs B  they had a payment shortfall and were in breach 
of contract on their existing mortgage and the bridging loan was more suitable than the 
mortgage it replaced. That is allowed under the relevant rules (MCOB  Mortgages and 
Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook).
If Mr and Mrs B had spoken to lender A and told it they had a bridging loan that enabled 
them to repay their mortgage where the term had ended two years ago, it is less likely 
that a lender would extend further forbearance.
Overall, I didnt consider the recommendation by Lighthouse was unreasonable. But its 
failure to properly assess the suitability and explain the reasons for its recommendations to 
Mr and Mrs B meant they werent able to make an informed choice about what to do. That 
had caused Mr and Mrs B avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B have been surprised by how things turned out. That was due to a failure by 
Lighthouse to communicate in a clear, fair and not misleading way and to explain the risks of 
the bridging loan. They have been caused some avoidable upset and stress when they 
discovered the additional costs and that they could not carry out their plans at what was 
already a very difficult time for them because of their personal circumstances. They will also 
have had the ongoing worry that they have made very important financial decision based on 
flawed advice.
In saying that I have to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B were already in a very difficult 
situation. I accept what Mr and Mrs Bs representative has said about their health and 
circumstances. But Lighthouse is not responsible for that  or the fact that Mr and Mrs B had 
not been able to repay their interest only mortgage. So I cant fairly say that Lighthouse 
should compensate them for that. Nor could I say that it should compensate them for the fact 
that they took a bridging loan. I considered it would be fair and reasonable for Lighthouse to pay Mr and Mrs B £500 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to properly advise Mr and Mrs B. 
In response to my provisional decision, Lighthouse said it had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs Bs daughter did not accept what I said. She made a number of points, including:
If Lighthouse had contacted lender A and explained the situation, Mr and Mrs B would 
have been classed as mortgage prisoners. And as vulnerable mortgage prisoners, 
there might have been other lenders that could help. That should have been 
investigated.
If Mr and Mrs B had taken a lifetime mortgage, the early repayment charge would have 
been less than the interest and fees for the bridging loan  and it would have been less 
risky. They would also not have had the bridging loan lender pushing them to repay the 
debt. That caused Mr and Mrs B a considerable amount of stress.
If Lighthouse had done any research it would have known that the property would not 
sell easily.
The original advice said that if the property had not sold after 12 months then Lighthouse 
would look at a later life lender  but that did not happen.
Mr and Mrs B walked away with barely anything after all the rolled up interest and 
charges.
 She cant understand why £500 is a fair amount bearing in mind the failings I identified 
in my provisional decision. The situation Mr and Mrs B was in was bad  but the bridging 
loan made things far worse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how much this means to Mr and Mrs B and their daughter. I understand that they 
have been left in a very difficult position by what happened  and I can see why they dont 
consider that the compensation I proposed goes far enough, bearing in mind I identified a 
number of failures in the advice given by Lighthouse. But after reviewing everything, I see no 
reason to reach different conclusions to those I made in my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs Bs daughter does not disagree with my findings that Lighthouse:
Failed to identify Mr and Mrs B were vulnerable.
Did not take reasonable steps to gather all relevant information about Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
Did not explain the reasons for its recommendations properly  it did not set out the 
significant risks of taking the bridging loan.
Should have encouraged Mr and Mrs B to speak to lender A in 2018. 
Where a business has not acted fairly, I must look at what I consider was most likely to have 
happened if it had acted fairly and reasonably.The first thing Lighthouse should have done was to tell Mr and Mrs B to speak again to 
lender A in 2018. Mr and Mrs Bs daughter said they were mortgage prisoners. There is no 
agreed definition for what that term means. It usually refers to borrowers who have an active 
mortgage, but are unable to obtain a new interest rate product or move to another lender 
because of their circumstances. Mr and Mrs B had an interest only mortgage where the term 
had ended and they did not have the means to repay the capital balance.  
In those circumstances, lenders have an obligation to treat borrowers fairly. That can include 
looking at extending the term of the mortgage, switching to a repayment mortgage or giving 
a borrower time to sell their property and to repay the loan. 
We see complaints from borrowers whose term has ended where they dont consider the 
lender is treating them fairly. I have dealt with those complaints. So I know what the relevant 
rules are and what lenders do in practice to support borrowers in those circumstances.
We also have the evidence from lender A when asked what it would do in circumstances 
where a borrower has reached the end of an interest only mortgage but isnt able to repay it. 
It said it:
is aware there are a number of customers in this position and always does its best to 
assist. The best option is to offer a full or part conversion to capital and interest with a term 
extension, if this is affordable. If a conversion is not affordable, then we work with customers 
to explore other options. We will always give customers time to sell a property as long as we 
can see it is for sale[lender A] will consider legal action form six months after the mortgage 
should have been redeemed. However, as you can also see, we will exercise discretion and 
if customers keep in contact, we are prepared to give them much longer.
This is in line with my understanding of what lenders should do. It would appear that 
conversion to capital and interest had been ruled out. We know that lender A had already 
given Mr and Mrs B around two years to sell their home. It notes that it considers legal action 
after six months  but it will exercise discretion and if customers keep in contact is prepared 
to give them much longer. It did not specify how much time that could be.
Lender A also said it will work with customers to explore other options. In my experience it 
would be less likely that a lender would give borrowers more time when there was a viable 
option available to repay the mortgage, such as the bridging loan in this case. I say this as 
when Mr and Mrs B took out the mortgage they agreed to pay it back by a certain date. By 
not doing so they were in breach of contract. While lenders generally will give borrowers time 
to sell and exercise forbearance, there are ongoing costs and risks to it while the mortgage 
has not been repaid. It would be unusual for a lender to allow that to continue for an open 
ended and indefinite period of time. There will come a point where the lender will take action 
 as it is entitled to.
In this case, if Mr and Mrs B had spoken to lender A and said there was the possibility of 
taking a bridging loan, then it is likely that lender A would view that as an option for Mr and 
Mrs B to repay the mortgage. I consider it less likely that in those circumstances lender A 
would have told Mr and Mrs B not to worry, they could have as long as they wanted to sell 
their home and repay the mortgage. It is more likely that lender A would view the bridging 
loan as a viable way for Mr and Mrs B to repay the mortgage. And even if it had agreed to 
give Mr and Mrs B more time, we dont know how long that would have been. It could still 
have started legal action at some point. 
I note Mr and Mrs Bs daughters point that there might have been other lenders that could 
have helped Mr and Mrs B. Its not clear what those options were. It seems unlikely that they 
could have qualified for a conventional repayment or interest only mortgage because of their ages and circumstances. It seems their options were limited to staying as they were (which 
Ive already explained was not viable), or taking a bridging loan or lifetime mortgage.
Lifetime mortgages will usually have early repayment charges  and not just for the first two 
years. In most cases, it would not be good advice for an adviser to recommend a lifetime 
mortgage where the intention is for the mortgage to be repaid in the short term. The early 
repayment charges can be significant and can fluctuate based on movements in financial 
markets. It would be difficult for me to say that if Mr and Mrs B had taken a lifetime mortgage 
instead that the total costs (including set up fees, compound interest and early repayment 
charge) would necessarily be less than they paid in total to the bridging loan. 
Nor would it have been sensible for Lighthouse to recommend that Mr and Mrs B switch to a 
lifetime mortgage after one year of the bridging loan. It was still Mr and Mrs Bs intention to 
sell their home and a lifetime mortgage would have remained unsuitable for the same 
reasons as above.
Many equity release lenders will limit the maximum loan to value based on a borrowers age. 
It isnt entirely clear that Mr and Mrs B would have been able to borrow the full amount under 
a lifetime mortgage. But that does not change the fact that a lifetime mortgage would 
probably be less suitable than bridging finance, bearing in mind the potential early 
repayment charge costs.
MCOB says that a broker can recommend a mortgage that would not otherwise be suitable if 
it is more suitable than the mortgage it replaces. I think it would be very difficult for me to say 
that the bridging loan was less suitable than the mortgage it replaced. The term of Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage had ended, they were in breach of contract and they were relying on the 
discretion of lender A in continuing to give them more time. A bridging loan where they were 
not in breach of contract and which gave them more time to sell their property was clearly 
more suitable than the mortgage it replaced  Mr and Mrs B were in a risky position if they 
remained with lender A.
In the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
Lighthouse to recommend that Mr and Mrs B should take a bridging loan. It follows that I 
cant award compensation for the cost of the bridging loan. Nor can I award any 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience that Mr and Mrs B have suffered because 
they took out the bridging loan  including any stress when they had to refinance the 
bridging loan or their disappointment in being left with significantly less than they hoped for 
when they sold their home. 
Lighthouse did not take appropriate steps in view of Mr and Mrs Bs vulnerabilities, did not 
gather enough information about their needs and circumstances to be able to give mortgage 
advice and did not explain the reasons for its recommendation or the risks of it properly. I still 
consider that if it had done so Mr and Mrs B would likely have gone ahead with the bridging 
loan because the alternative (staying with lender A) was not viable or risk free. But it is clear 
that the failures by Lighthouse have contributed to the distress and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs B have suffered.  
I accept that Mr and Mrs B have been through a very difficult and stressful time. But my 
award of compensation is only intended to reflect the failures by Lighthouse that I have 
identified, not everything that has happened to them or all of the problems theyve 
experienced because of the mortgage, the sale of their property and the bridging loan. In all 
the circumstances, I consider that £500 is fair and reasonable amount to reflect the upset 
and worry Mr and Mrs B will have experienced because Lighthouse did not give them 
enough information to make a fully informed decision what to do. My final decision
My final decision is that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B 
£500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman