DRN-3148354
The complaint
Mr N, who is represented by a third party, complains that ACF Car Finance Limited (ACF) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in March 2006.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in March 2006. The policy 
was taken out when Mr N applied for a loan to buy a car. Mr N also took out several 
other insurances at the time. 
The cost of the policy, being £1,765, was added to the amount borrowed as a lump sum 
and repaid with interest over the 48-month term of the loan. The total cost of the PPI 
was £3,106.24. The policy provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover 
for Mr N. 
On 5 October 2021 I issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt agree the 
PPI had been mis-sold. 
I set out an extract below:
I have seen the credit agreement for the sale, which shows that Mr N was borrowing
£5,073 (plus the cost of the PPI and the other insurances hed decided to take) over 48 
months. To get the cover Mr N had to tick a box for the PPI option and that box is ticked on 
Mr Ns form. Mr N also had to sign that same part of the form, and he did, and this section 
of the form was separate to his signature for the credit. So I think its more likely that PPI 
was presented as optional and Mr N chose to take it and thats how it came to be applied to 
his loan account. But I understand why he might not remember this, given these events 
happened so long ago.
Both parties say the policy was sold with a formal recommendation. ACFs representative, 
in line with this being an advised sale, also completed a record of their discussion with Mr 
N to show that the way the policy worked had been explained to him. ACF needed to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr N. And it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
I say this because Mr N was eligible for the policy and he wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And I think Mr N would have found the policy 
useful. I say this because Mr N told us he would not have got paid if he didnt work and 
from what hes told us he had no other means to rely on in that circumstance, or if he lost 
his job. But the PPI policy would have covered the loan repayment for the remaining term 
of the loan if Mr N was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if Mr N lost his job. 
So, I think Mr N would have found the policy useful.
I havent seen anything to make me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr N or that he 
had a need to keep costs down. Whilst I could understand if Mr N thought the policy 
expensive now, given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr N made a 
successful claim, it would have been possible for him to get back quite a bit more than he 
paid for it.
Mr N may have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early. I dont know if ACF thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if 
it explained the situation clearly to Mr N. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr N 
thought hed repay the loan early  although hes told us that hed later decided to pay off 
the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him when he took it 
out.
Its possible that the information ACF gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
It follows that I currently dont think Mr N has lost out because of anything ACF may 
have done wrong.
Mr Ns representative responded by asking us to the confirm the date the policy ended. 
I see our adjudicator contacted ACF who said they couldnt confirm the exact date that 
policy ended given that they were not the car finance provider, so they didnt have 
access to that information. ACF confirmed the PPI had been set up to cover the whole 
term of the loan, which is consistent with the what Ive seen about the way policy 
operated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has responded to my provisional decision with any further 
information or evidence, I wont be changing my provisional findings. And as Ive already 
set out my full reasons for not upholding Mr Ns complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint and so ACF Car Finance Limited 
doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman