DRN-3299497
The complaint
Mr H complains that Trading 212 UK Limiteds mobile app didnt allow him to make deposits 
into his trading account which prevented him from purchasing shares he wanted.
What happened
On 8 March 2021 Mr H tried to deposit funds in his account through Apple pay using Trading 
212s mobile app but was unable to do so. He contacted Trading 212 about this on the day 
and it responded on 9 March 2021 saying it had no record of a failed deposit and suggested 
that Mr H check his Apple pay as the situation was due to a limit on the card or insufficient 
funds. 
Mr H responded and said his Apple pay was fine. There was some further communication 
between the parties with Trading 212 stating it did have a record of two deposits made by Mr 
H on 8 March 2021 both of GBP 90 but no record a failed deposit. It suggested Mr H reinstall 
the app which he said he would do but he said he would take legal action if it continued to 
happen.
On 30 June 2021 Mr H again attempted to deposit funds in his account though the mobile 
app and was again unable to do so. He complained to Trading 212 about being unable to 
deposit funds through the mobile app. 
In its final response letter, Trading 212 said there was a technical issue with the mobile app 
on 30 June 2021 affecting a limited number of clients. It said this was resolved with the next 
update. 
It said it couldnt be held responsible for a technical issue with the mobile app and pointed to 
its terms of service in this regard. It said that Mr H had been advised to use the supported 
alternative methods of payment or to use the web-based version of the platform and that he 
had access to the Help Centre which also provided details of other options for deposits. 
Trading 212 did offer Mr H £30 as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that there was no evidence of any issues arising on 8 March 2021 and it wasnt possible 
to say why Mr H had been unable to deposit funds on that day. Regarding what happened 
on 30 June 2021 the investigator said that whilst Trading 212 had confirmed there were 
technical issues with the app this didnt mean that it was liable for any losses arising from 
this.
The investigator explained that apps arent necessarily expected to work without any faults 
and issues and that what we look at is what alternatives are offered to customers in those 
situations. And the investigator noted that Trading 212 had made Mr H aware of alternative 
ways that he could fund his account.
Mr H said he wasnt happy with the outcome reached by the investigator and asked for his 
complaint to proceed so it has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to make clear that my findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely than not  based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. In 
simple terms to uphold this complaint there would have to be persuasive evidence that made 
it more likely than not that Trading 212 had done something wrong. I have not seen any 
such persuasive evidence in this case.
From the information I have seen on the 8 March 2021 Mr H tried to purchase a share in 
Apple but was unable to do so because the order amount was more than 95% of the free 
funds in his account. He then attempted to deposit more funds in his account through the 
app using Apple pay but the payment failed.
Trading 212 have said that Mr H carried out two successful deposits into his account on 8 
March 2021 of GBP 90 each and has no record of any failed deposits. I am not able to say 
why another deposit the same day wasnt successful, so I am unable to say whether this 
was the result of an issue with the app itself or for some other reason unrelated to Trading 
212.
And even if I had seen some evidence that suggested the cause was because of an issue 
with the app this does not mean that Trading 212 did something wrong and are responsible 
for any losses Mr H may have suffered. I explain further below why this is the case when 
commenting on what happened on 30 June 2021.
There is no dispute that Mr H was unable to deposit money into his account through the app 
on 30 June 2021 because of an issue with the app - Trading 212 has accepted there was a 
technical issue on the day that affected a small number of clients.
However, as the investigator explained, the fact that Mr H was unable to use the app to 
deposit funds of itself isnt a basis for upholding the complaint. It isnt reasonable to expect a 
firm to provide guaranteed uninterrupted access to its platform through the mobile app. Such 
access can be interrupted by various things which are not within the reasonable control of 
the business.
It was also possible to use the web-based version of Trading 212s platform if the app wasnt 
working, as indicated by it in response to Mr Hs complaint. I acknowledge that Mr H didnt 
have access to a laptop so wasnt able to make use of this alternative way of depositing 
funds into his account. However, that is not something I can hold Trading 212 responsible 
for. I think what is important is that an alternative option for accessing the platform and 
depositing funds was available. 
Trading 212s terms of service refer to clients acknowledging that sometimes there may be 
technical issues or faults with the platform. The terms of service also include a provision that 
Trading 212 isnt responsible for partial or full default of its obligations caused by any event 
beyond its reasonable control - including any communications, systems, or computer failure.
Such terms are not unusual with firms providing services like those provided by Trading 212 
and I dont think they are unreasonable.
In summary my key findings are:
There is no persuasive evidence that Mr H was unable to deposit funds on 8 March 2021 because of a problem with the app and there is no reasonable basis for 
upholding the complaint relating to that.
The inability to deposit funds on 30 June 2021 was because there was an issue with 
the app, but it isnt reasonable to expect a firm to provide a guaranteed uninterrupted 
service through the app.
The terms of service that applied to Mr Hs account at the time included an 
acknowledgment from the client that technical issues or faults could affect the 
platform and also that Trading 212 isnt responsible for any default in its obligations 
arising from matters beyond its reasonable control.
In the circumstances of this complaint I am not satisfied that it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Trading 212 responsible for Mr Hs inability to deposit funds in his 
account on 30 June 2021 because of a technical fault.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman