DRN-4110487
The complaint
Mr H complained, through a claims management company (CMC), that CASLP Ltd (trading 
as Sanlam Life and Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam) provided unsuitable investment advice 
when it recommended Mr H to invest in a savings programme which also included life 
insurance. 
Mr H felt he had been financially disadvantaged by poor advice and wanted redress based 
on the principle of investment loss.
What happened
In September 1991, Sanlam recommended Mr H to invest in a savings programme which 
was made up of ten separate policies (or contracts) and included a life assurance benefit of 
£1,845 or the investment benefit if greater. A total of £12,200 was paid in premiums. A 
surrender value of £14,636.60 was paid in January 2012.
Mr H told Sanlam he was mainly unhappy because there was:
no evidence of a requirement for him to have savings contracts of such a long term 
nature
no evidence that, as a single person without dependents, he required the life cover 
and although this meant the contracts had qualifying status for tax purposes, this 
didnt justify paying for cover he didnt need when the life cover charges could have 
been invested instead
no evidence of him having adequate deposit based emergency savings worth at least 
three months income as an absolute minimum
no evidence that medium to long term contracts, especially when this meant 20 years 
plus, were appropriate for Mr H whose shorter term plans included property, 
marriage and children
no evidence that he had been provided with all the relevant product literature.
In response to his complaint Sanlam said, in brief summary, that:
the life cover was a worthwhile addition as it ensured Mr H would pay no additional 
tax on encashment
while Mr H appeared to have only £2,000 at the time of the sale, hed maintained 
premiums until surrendering the policy in January 2012, indicating there were no 
issues with affordability or that he required access to these funds earlier
even if he had no emergency savings in place, part of the recommendation was to 
save for the short to medium term via a building society
Mr H had signed to confirm receipt of the product brochure
there didn't appear to be any specific objectives in respect of the required term within 
the factfile  it looked like there had been discussion with Mr H about his longer term 
objectives, including in his 50s and beyond, which would have been at least 26 years 
after the policy was sold
The policy appears to have been kept for the purpose it was sold. If Mr H had 
believed this was a medium-term investment, he would have surrendered the policy 
sooner instead of keeping it until 2012, and not complaining about it until some 
9 years later.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us.
Where complaints concern events that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction. She explained to Sanlam why she thought 
Mr H was still in time to bring the complaint and after Sanlam gave its consent to us 
investigating Mr Hs complaint, our investigator proceeded to look at the merits.
Ultimately, based on all the information she had seen, the investigator felt this was a 
complaint she should recommend upholding. 
In summary, her view was that whilst Mr H had capacity to take some risk with his money, 
she didnt think the long-term nature of the plan was suited to his objectives or that the 
inclusion of life cover was suitable. In particular, she said the product couldnt have been 
used towards the milestones hed mentioned because the full benefit wouldnt be realised for 
25 years. And given that he had only £2,000 in savings, it wasnt reasonable to make a 
recommendation that didnt address his more foreseeable and immediate needs. 
All in all, our investigator concluded that the way the plan was set up and how it was charged 
meant the product was inflexible and unsuitable for Mr H.Sanlam disagreed and said the evidence didnt show that it had sold Mr H an unsuitable 
product. It made the following points:
other products were available, but the advisor could only recommend suitable 
products he was able to offer and the savings plans recommended werent 
unsuitable 
its clear Mr H wanted to make additional savings out of income to boost his existing 
building society savings and part of the advisors overall recommendation was that 
he should do this  theres no evidence that Mr H didnt act on the advisors 
recommendation to also save in a building society
the policy was described and sold as suitable for 20 - 40 years. Mr H kept it for 
21 years
theres nothing to suggest that this plan was misrepresented or that anything in the 
product literature wouldve given the impression that this was a policy suitable for 
shorter term savings  and the fact Mr H maintained the policy for 21 years doesnt 
suggest he wanted a short term plan
the life cover may not have been a priority for Mr H, but it allowed the proceeds to be 
taken without the liability to personal taxation. This was a useful benefit given the 
likelihood that Mr H would be a higher rate tax-payer in the long term  which is what 
happened.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There is limited information now available about Mr Hs financial situation when he took out 
these policies, but Sanlam has helpfully provided some point of sale paperwork and I think 
its reasonable for me to rely on this as an accurate reflection of what was said at the time.
Mr Hs circumstances and financial situation in 1991 arent in dispute. He was unmarried, 
with no dependent children and living with his parents. He was in full time employment and 
his job offered progression opportunities which he could reasonably expect would bring him 
commensurate salary benefits in the years ahead. Ive seen nothing to suggest he wasnt 
expecting to progress his career and work up until retirement age, which gave Mr H plenty of 
earning potential.
The factfind completed when he took out the plan shows that he earned around £17,600 per 
year. He had £2,000 cash in deposit based savings. His monthly net income was recorded 
as £1,008 and his outgoings shown as £400, leaving him with a cash surplus each month of 
around £600. He had no outstanding liabilities. 
All this suggests Mr H was well placed to be able to invest £50 each month, bearing in mind 
that the monthly contributions seem to have been very modest compared to his disposable 
income at the time.But it doesnt look to me like the advisor took into account that it was likely Mr Hs 
circumstances at point of sale would change in the foreseeable future and how this would 
impact on him over the medium to long term lifespan envisaged for the savings programme. 
Mr H said he had plans to buy a house in the next ten years or so and it was clear from his 
discussion with the advisor that marriage and children were part of the future he imagined for 
himself. All of these things would impact significantly on the amount of disposable income 
hed likely have and his capacity for investment loss  even allowing for his probable salary 
increases.  
Although his circumstances and disposable income at the time suggest Mr H could easily 
have afforded to put money aside, he had only limited cash savings (less than two months 
worth of salary). Given that he paid no rent or mortgage and doesnt seem to have had any 
financial responsibility for the usual household outgoings, this makes me think that Mr H 
hadnt so far found it very easy to invest regularly without the discipline of a structured 
savings product. So, I dont think the advisor wouldve had any good reason to think that 
Mr H was likely to start building up his cash savings after investing in the savings 
programme, just on the basis of his advice alone  especially as Mr H would have £50 less 
left to invest after paying into the savings programme. 
As the overall suitability of the advisors advice was dependent on Mr H choosing to use 
more of his disposable income to build up his cash savings (which Sanlam seems to accept), 
this calls into question the recommendation made to invest in the savings programme when 
I dont think the advisor could reasonably rely on Mr H implementing the other part of his 
recommendation. 
Theres mention of the possibility that Mr H mightve had some stocks and shares but I think 
the advisor wouldve likely recorded details if hed had any significant portfolio  in fact, he 
recorded just £2,000 liquid cash and NIL under Investments. So, in the absence of any 
more information, I dont think its likely that Mr H wouldve had any significant other capital 
at the time. 
This effectively meant that, unless he made some financial plans to be able to afford the 
future he envisaged, Mr H would be dependent on his limited building society savings and 
monthly cash surplus stretching far enough to cover the costs of buying a home, getting 
married and potentially supporting dependents, as well as meeting any significant unplanned 
expenditure or emergency spending needs arising.
In these circumstances, I find that an inflexible savings plan intended to grow capital over the 
medium to long term (and at least 20 years in this case) was unsuitable, since Mr H 
unnecessarily risked making a loss on it in the early years if he needed to surrender it - as it 
seemed likely he mightve needed to do given his circumstances and future plans. 
Additionally, a further reason for upholding this complaint is that I cant be sure about exactly 
what Mr H understood about risk. Sanlam doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion 
about the risk Mr H was prepared to take with these investments. But Im not persuaded that 
the managed fund recommended to him was likely to have been suitable. I say this because 
Mr H appears to have been a first time investor and I've seen nothing to suggest he had any 
particular knowledge of investment risk. Sanlam hasnt shown me how investment risk was 
explained or presented to Mr H or that he understood investment risk. What Mr H told the advisor about his circumstances and his objectives suggested he did 
however have a need, at the very least, to build up a contingency fund and also save for a 
deposit, in order to be able to meet his aspiration to be a homeowner within the next ten 
years. So I think a suitable investment would have limited his exposure to risk in order to 
preserve his capital for these purposes, although I can understand that he might have been 
happy to take some degree of risk to achieve his investment goals. I dont have any more 
details, but it seems likely to me that a managed fund described as: designed to grow 
steadily with the full benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years was likely to 
reflect a higher level of risk than I think Mr H wouldve been comfortable taking had he 
understood that he should expect to lose out financially if he wanted to access his savings 
sooner  as he would likely have needed to do according to what he told the advisor. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H has confirmed hes in agreement with my findings and has nothing further to add.  
Sanlam doesnt agree with my assessment of this case and has made the following main 
points:
It could only recommend products from its own product range. The factfile clearly 
states recommend Building Soc account for short to medium i.e. 0 20 yrs and 
Mr H had signed the factfile as confirmation that these recommendations reflected 
the discussions regarding his situation.
Given Mr Hs disposable income, even after paying £50 for his savings policy, it 
wouldnt have had a significant impact (if any) on his ability to also pay into a building 
society account.
Mr H also took out another policy around the same time so its fair to say he had 
some interest in longer term security and was preparing for it.
At the time of this sale there was no requirement that the determination of Mr Hs 
attitude to risk needed to be documented  that doesnt mean a discussion would not 
have taken place. 
A later factfile shows that Mr H held shares that would have been purchased rather 
than acquired via an employers share scheme so he had investment experience.
Mr H had the capacity to accept the risk the fund presented.
A little over 2 years later, Mr H had a new address so it appears that he managed to 
acquire a deposit without the need to surrender, cancel or stop premiums to his 
savings policy.
On balance, Sanlam said it believed it cannot safely be concluded that this policy 
was unsuitable or mis-sold or, given the prolonged period which Mr H paid the 
premiums, that the plan was inherently unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Sanlam that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything they have asked me to reconsider.  
Sanlam hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision as well as the wider considerations that impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. But I would additionally comment as follows:  
The evidence Sanlam mentions which shows Mr H had other shares contradicts the 
information recorded in the factfile. So I dont feel that what Sanlam has said is 
enough for me reasonably to be able to conclude that Mr H was an experienced 
investor who would likely have properly understood investment risk. Sanlam has 
accepted that the managed fund he invested in clearly presented some risk. Im still 
not persuaded that Ive seen enough to find that Mr H was well placed to make an 
informed decision on whether he was comfortable with the investment risk he was 
signing up to with the recommended fund. 
The fact that any discussion about risk wasnt recorded means theres insufficient 
evidence now to enable me to conclude, on balance, that the investment suited 
Mr Hs risk approach when the other evidence I mentioned in my provisional decision 
suggests to me that this was unlikely. 
I still dont find that Mr H was willing or able to risk losing money he would need to 
depend on in the event of any unforeseen spending needs arising and to fund his 
future plans, in particular for home ownership. His lack of any sufficient contingency 
fund or adequate savings, even if he had prioritised putting aside money to build up 
his savings at the same time as he invested, meant that it would be some time before 
the investment recommendation would be suitable for his particular circumstances.  
A change of address of itself doesnt necessarily mean that Mr H was able to fund 
any substantial deposit from his own financial resources. Or if he did, that it follows 
that the advice to invest was suitable. For the reasons set out more fully in my 
provisional decision, its still my view that his circumstances and financial situation at 
the time the advice was provided meant the investment recommendation was 
unsuitable.
I appreciate that Sanlam takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr H fairly Sanlam should:
 compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 Sanlam should also pay interest as set out below, and
 provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Surrendered
Savings
ProgrammeDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year* on any 
loss from the 
end date to the
date of 
settlement For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. Sanlam must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sanlam 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
had the advisor discussed Mr Hs need for a savings plan that would 
help him achieve his stated financial investment goals and objectives 
involving buying a property, getting married and having a family and his 
need for a suitable contingency fund to draw upon as needed for 
unforeseen expenses, I think its more likely than not that he would have 
invested at low risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Hs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not 
mean that he would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained 
from investments suited to his needs and objectives and his risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct CASLP Ltd (trading as Sanlam Life and Pensions UK 
Limited) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman