DRN-2843984
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money he paid for a van. 
He says he was deceived by the seller and has lost out as a result. 
Mrs K has taken the lead on the complaint, but the payments were made from Mr Ks sole 
account. To make my decision easier to read, I refer only to Mr K. I do this even where it was 
Mrs K rather than Mr K who said or did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this 
approach.
What happened
Mr K was due to start a new job as a delivery driver. He saw a second-hand van advertised 
for sale on a social media marketplace. I understand the van was first registered in 2006 and 
that the seller was looking for £1,975 for it. Mr K says that he was interested in the van 
because it had passed its MOT the week before being advertised. He contacted the seller 
and made arrangements to see the vehicle. On 2 May 2020, he paid a holding deposit of 
£300 by bank transfer to confirm his interest.
On 7 May 2020, Mr K met the seller outside a garage located on an industrial estate. He had 
travelled a considerable distance as the garage was around 200 miles away from his home. 
Mr K says that during a short test drive of the van, some electrical problems became 
apparent, but the seller told him they would be easy to fix and reduced the vans price by 
£75. Mr K decided to go ahead with the purchase and transferred £1,600 to pay the 
remainder of the agreed sale price. 
Unfortunately, the van broke down around an hour after Mr K had taken possession of it. He 
managed to drive it back outside the garage where he had originally met the seller. Mr K 
says that initially the seller did not answer any of his calls and only returned to help after 
Mr K said he was going to involve the Police. 
Mr K says that he asked the seller to refund his money. He was unhappy with the situation 
and felt the condition of the van did not match the advert. But the seller refused to refund 
Mr K. Instead, he said he would fix the problem with the van and then drive it to Mr Ks 
address. Mr K has provided a copy of a note the seller wrote and signed to this effect.  
Mr K kept in touch with the seller by text message. He explained that he couldnt work 
without the van and wanted to know what was going on. Around two weeks later, the sellers 
son phoned Mr K and said his father was unwell and the van needed to go to an auto 
electrician. 
Mr K wanted to reject the van and get a refund of the money hed paid. He did not have the 
sellers home address and the seller refused to share it with him. So Mr K sent a letter to the 
garage. The garage returned the letter unopened. 
The seller told Mr K that the garage was not connected to him and he did not work there. 
The seller did not refund the money Mr K had paid, nor did he undertake any of the promised 
repairs to the van. 
Mr K has been in contact with the Police to explain the situation. He says the Police told him 
this was a matter between him and the seller but they confirmed that the van was not 
currently taxed and ownership of it had not been transferred. 
Mr K was unable to start work as a delivery driver without a van. So he contacted the bank to 
see if there was any way to recover the money hed paid. 
HSBC said it was unable to assist with the situation because it was a dispute between a 
buyer and a seller. With the situation at an impasse, Mr K contacted us for help. 
One of our investigators looked into whether HSBC did enough to help Mr K and considered 
whether it ought to refund Mr K for his loss. In doing so, he considered HSBCs obligations 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which HSBC is a 
signatory to. He didnt think he could fairly say the seller had set out to scam Mr K. In 
reaching this position, he noted that the seller had turned up at the arranged meeting point 
and that Mr K had been able to take the van away. He also noted that the seller had 
remained in contact with Mr K and tried to work through the problems, although he accepted 
that the seller had not undertaken any of the actions hed said he would do.  He felt the 
dispute with the seller was ultimately about the quality of the van and not covered by the 
CRM Code. 
Mr K responded to say that although he thought our investigators summary of the underlying 
facts was fair, he wanted to take the case forwards to do all he could to try and get his 
money back. He added that the seller had most recently said that Mr K should make 
arrangements to go and fix the van. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require HSBC to refund the money 
Mr K sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr K was hoping for. Hes told 
us that he had saved up to be able to buy a van and that hes not been able to start work as 
a delivery driver without it. Against that backdrop, I can understand why he wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover his money. But having thought about HSBCs actions, I am 
unable to say it has responsibility for refunding the money Mr K sent. I will explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When HSBC made the payments, it was complying with Mr Ks instructions. At the time, 
Mr K wanted to pay the seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the 
correct account details. As I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Mr K for any other reason.  When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which HSBC has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr K made the payments. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances of the payments Mr K made and, in particular, whether HSBC 
ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it 
doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
From what I have seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Mr K finds himself in is 
a scam, although I accept and acknowledge that the seller has treated Mr K poorly. 
I think the payments Mr K made form part of a civil dispute and, as such, are not covered by 
the CRM Code. This means I dont think HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mr K because 
of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
I can appreciate why Mr K feels he has been deceived. He had the impression the sale was 
affiliated with a garage when this was not the case and the seller has not kept to his word 
about repairing the van. 
But I am mindful that Mr K did receive a van for the money he paid. The available evidence 
does not indicate that the seller was not legitimate and had set out to deceive Mr K. 
I wouldnt have expected the seller to show up on the day and look to complete the sale if he 
intended to steal Mr Ks money and not provide anything in return. There is no dispute that 
the van existed as Mr K drove it and initially did take ownership of it, and Ive not seen 
anything that makes me think the person selling it did not have the right to do so- I note that 
the van has not been reported as stolen. The problems Mr K is now experiencing stem back 
to the condition of the vehicle - it was not of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him 
and it broke down very quickly afterwards. But this is an issue thats clearly stated as not 
being catered for within the CRM Code. 
Mr K has my considerable sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation as the 
seller has his money and he does not have the van in his possession, as it is remains 
outside of the garage. It is likely that arranging to transport the van to assess its condition 
now or paying for it to be fixed locally to where it is currently situated would incur Mr K more 
expense. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think the seller is preventing Mr K from 
accessing the van. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC treated Mr K unfairly when it concluded this was a civil matter 
that Mr K would need to pursue directly with the seller. For the reasons I have explained, Im 
satisfied Mr K isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds 
on which I could say that HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Mr Ks loss. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman