DRN-3300882
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund him money he lost 
as a result of a fraud.
What happened
Mr N learned of an investment opportunity after meeting an individual through an online 
dating website. The individual befriended Mr N over the course of months and disclosed 
that a relation of theirs was a trading professional and consultant for a large investment 
firm based abroad. They also convinced Mr N that they were a successful investor 
themselves by sending him screenshots of high value successful trades.
Due to Mr N having some prior experience of trading in investmentsincluding 
cryptocurrency and other commoditieshe was satisfied that the person was 
knowledgeable in this field. Unfortunately, it later transpired that the person he was 
speaking with was in fact a fraudster.
The fraudster prompted Mr N to adopt some of their trading strategies and sent him a link 
to a platform they were using to trade successfully. Mr N carried out a number of checks 
on the trading company by obtaining its company number and cross referencing this with 
the relevant registration database in the country where the business was based. This 
found a positive match; which reinforced his belief that it was genuine.
Mr N deposited a trial amount to test the platform out under the guidance of the 
fraudster. The result was, as Mr N describes, a small impressive instant profit.
Mr N continued to use the platform over the subsequent months to make a number of 
trades under the guidance of the fraudster. In total, he deposited 126,800 US Dollars 
(USD) into the trading account via a number of transfers from his Wise account between 
January and April 2020.
The fraud was discovered by Mr N when he attempted to withdraw his funds from the 
trading platform. He was provided a number of excuses as to why the funds couldnt be 
released; including a tax charge that was required to be paid first. Mr N reported the fraud 
to Wise and complained that itd not done more to protect him. 
Wise looked into Mr Ns concerns but didnt agree itd done anything wrong. It pointed out 
that it wasnt made aware of the fraudulent transactions until after theyd been made. It 
also pointed out that the terms of Mr Ns accountwhich he signed and agreed to
highlighted that it cant be held responsible to Mr N for foreseeable loss and damage. It 
agreed to co-operate with any institutions investigating the matter, including the Police, if 
contacted directly.
Mr N wasnt happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to this service 
where it was looked into again by an Investigator.
The Investigator concluded that the transactions carried out on Mr Ns account should 
have caused sufficient concern for Wise to intervene. She thought this was particularly so 
considering that the payment of 10,000 USD was unusual and out of character when 
looking at Mr Ns normal account activity.
The Investigator felt that had Wise intervened in the paymentsas she thought it should 
havethen it likely would have been able to prevent the fraud from continuing. She 
thought that a warning of these types of fraud, and an attempt to highlight some of the 
unusual factors surrounding itsuch as the online dating approaches and unrealistic 
returnswould have given Mr N cause to step back and reconsider the transactions. As 
such, she recommended that Wise refund all transactions from the second payment; 
including interest.
Wise disagreed with the Investigators findings. It provided a number of statistical 
analyses of fraud payments in general. It also pointed out that its regulatory expectations 
when dealing with fraud have to weigh against its obligations to follow a customers 
instructions when requesting a payment be made. It found that the Investigators 
assessment placed an unrealistic burden on it to contact a large number of customers on 
a daily basis. And it felt this wasnt reasonable when considering the realities of the 
financial market.
As Wise disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision. On 24 January 2022 I issued my provisional findings and gave both parties a 
chance to respond to these. My provisional findings were as follows:
Its common ground that Mr N authorised the payments made as a result of the fraud. 
He was duped by the fraudsters into instructing Wise to transfer those sums to the 
accounts within the fraudsters control by convincing him he was participating in 
legitimate investments.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr N was the victim of a 
sophisticated fraud. He used his genuine security credentials to request the payments. 
So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr N is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Wise should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial businesses are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm and fraud.
I also think its important to highlight the complexities that regulated financial businesses, 
such as Wise, face when fulfilling their obligation to prevent financial crime and money laundering against their obligation to fulfil their customers instruction to make payments. 
This can be a difficult balancing act between identifying risk and placing particularly 
onerous processes in place that frustrate a customers ability to conduct genuine 
payments.
Should the payments have flagged as unusual or out of character?
Here, Mr N made a number of payments ranging from 5,000-40,000 USD to three 
separate accounts over a period of circa four months.
Looking at Mr Ns normal account activity over the preceding six months, its clear that 
he made a number of high value transactions out of his account; some of which 
amounted to over 5,000 USD. He also received into his account a number of high 
value transactions ranging from 20,000-50,000 USD. I must also consider that the 
account was, by its very purpose, set up to make international payments using different 
currencies. And it was therefore not unusual to see these types of payments to new 
payees in comparison to standard, mainstream bank accounts.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded that the payments ranging from 5,000-
15,000 USD do appear to be particularly unusual when comparing them to Mr Ns usual 
account activity. Its reasonable to expect the average consumer to make an occasional 
larger payment for goods or services. And as Mr N had a history of making international 
and alternative fiat currency payments on this account, this wouldnt have necessarily 
been an indicator of unusual activity.
Having said that, I do think the payments of 40,000 and 30,000 USD did present a 
significant increase in spending on his account. And these two transactions were carried 
out within a short period of time (circa 14 hours). As the first of the two payments was for 
40,000 USD, I think this presented an opportunity for Wise to intervene in the payment 
and validate its authenticity.
Would intervention have prevented the fraud?
This element of the complaint is particularly difficult to decide, as it requires me to 
consider a hypothetical scenario. So, Ive had to weigh up the evidence and testimony 
provided by both parties to find, on the balance of probabilities, what is more likely than 
not to have happened had the intervention occurred.
Mr N had met the fraudster via an online dating website and rapport and trust had been 
built with them over a number of months; despite the fact that theyd not met. This would 
present a red flag to a finance professional adept in fraud as this tends to be a common 
method fraudsters use to extract money from their victims. And I think Wise would have 
been alive to this if Mr N had disclosed the circumstances of his introduction to the 
investment.
Having said that, there are a number of factors aside from these which lead me to 
conclude that he would have continued with the payment even had he been put on notice 
regarding potential frauds of this nature.
Mr N has informed our service that hes an experienced investor who has knowledge of 
trading cryptocurrency and commodities. This is also apparent in the messages hes 
disclosed to our service between him and the fraudsters. He is evidently familiar with the 
terminology, acknowledges risk and discloses some of his previous investment 
experience.I think this knowledge of investments was likely to go hand in hand with knowledge of 
potential investment frauds. This is further supported by Mr Ns actions prior to fully 
committing in the investment. He tested the knowledge of the fraudsters when it came to 
investments. He also carried out a number of due diligence measures. These include 
comparing the company registration number against official records held in the country 
where it was based. He also admits participating in a test trade to ensure the returns 
were as specified, and likely to test the legitimacy of the company he was trading with.
These actions appear to me to be those of a person aware of the potential risks of fraud 
and were for the purpose of mitigating this risk.
So, had Wise contacted Mr N and highlighted these potential risks, or even presented 
him with a warning prior to processing the payment, I dont think this would have likely 
stopped him from proceeding. Hed carried out due diligence to satisfy himself he wasnt 
at risk, he was aware of current markets and returnsso would have been aware of 
too-good-to-be-true returnsand he was likely aware of the existence of investment 
frauds more broadly. So if Mr N had satisfied himself that they were genuine, I question 
how Wise would have been able to persuade him otherwise.
These factors persuade me that any intervention by Wise would have been ineffective as
Mr N likely had already considered the risks and attempted to mitigate them. Mr N has 
made submission that any warning likely would have made him take a step back and 
consider his choices more carefully. But I dont agree that they would have. Wise werent 
able to impart any further measures to mitigate these risks further to what hed already 
carried out, so I dont think he would have taken a step back and ultimately not followed 
through with the transactions.
For these reasons, I find it unreasonable to expect Wise to refund Mr N the funds lost 
as a result of the fraud.
Was enough done to recover Mr Ns funds?
Taking into account good business practice and what I deem to be fair and reasonable, 
Wise are generally expected to assist its customers in recovering misappropriated or 
misdirected funds when put on notice.
Here, Wise has told our service that it didnt attempt to recover the funds Mr N had 
stolen from him. Its reasons for this are:
The payments were made to international accounts using USD outside of the United 
States. It said that recovery attempts of these types of payments are rarely 
successful.
The payments were made to accounts in Hong Kong and the United Arab 
Emirates. It said that attempts to recover funds from banks within these locations 
were consistently faced with complete lack of response.
Mr N had made the first payment to the accounts five months prior to reporting the 
fraud. Hed also made the last payment to the account one month prior to reporting. 
Based on past experience, it pointed out that fraudsters tend to remove funds from 
beneficiary accounts within hours of completion.
Its not been contacted by law enforcement within the UK or abroad, which it says is 
normal practice when being reported. It said that this meant Mr Ns claims had not 
been substantiated by any other source.
I disagree, in part, with the points highlighted by Wise. By its own admission, these 
attempts at recovery are rarely successful or responded to by the international beneficiary banks. And this is supported by the experience this service has seen on a number of 
claims. But rarely doesnt equate to never. Whilst it is rare, there have been occasions 
that beneficiary bank accounts retain the money lost and agree to indemnify them to the 
sender. So, I dont think it reasonable that Wise decided to not even attempt recovery 
despite there being a remote chance it could have been successful.
I also disagree with its last point regarding a lack of contact from law enforcement 
agencies being cause to find Mr Ns claims as unsubstantiated. Mr N has provided 
substantial evidence to show hes been the victim of a fraud, and this was accepted 
during his claims process with Wise. Furthermore, I feel it important to highlight that lack 
of contact from law enforcement agencies is common. Criminal complaints are often not 
taken forward due to, but not limited to, a lack of viable lines of enquiry, jurisdiction 
issues and resourcing problems.
Having said this, I think its other points are well founded. Our service is unable to find 
out if the funds remained in the account at the point in which Mr N reported the fraud. 
But on balance, I agree that they were likely removed from the account prior to the 
report being made. Fraudsters are very much alive to the processes financial 
businesses take when being made aware of fraud. And in order to maximise their 
income from criminal activities, they do tend to remove the funds from the beneficiary 
account within a short period of time after theyve credited. This is to prevent them being 
frozen and returned to the victim of crime.
As Mr N didnt report the fraud until some weeks after his last transfer, I find it more likely 
than not that the funds were removed prior to this. As such, I dont find that recovery in 
these circumstances would have likely been successful.
Wise didnt have any further points to add. But Mr N did provide further comment; he 
said:
Hed not witheld any information relating to events that had taken place from 
Wise.
He felt that his consideration toward risk would have meant that had Wise 
advised him against making the payment, he wouldnt have continued with it.
He confirmed that the crime was reported to Police in all jurisdictions that were 
linked to fraud.
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings, Im now in a position to 
issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further comments made, I dont intend to depart from my provisional 
findings. Mr N has however made one point that Id like to address as I feel its relevant to 
the provisional findings made.
Mr N believes that his consideration toward fraud risk prior to making the transactions was a 
strong indicator that hed have likely not gone ahead with the transactions had he been told 
not to do so by Wise. While I understand Mr Ns point here, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Wise to advise him not to make the payment.
Regulated financial businesses are expected to intervene in unusual or out of character payments to ensure their customers arent at risk from fraud. Theyre also expected to 
advise against transferor even go as far as preventing a paymentif its obvious that a 
payment is as a result of fraud. But it wasnt obvious that Mr N was the victim of fraud as 
hed already carried out a number of mitigating actions to ensure he wasnt at risk. And had 
he told Wise about these actions during any intervention, I dont think it would have then 
been reasonable to advise Mr N not to proceed with the payments as they appeared to be 
for a genuine purpose.
Ive already covered in my provisional findings above why I think any warning or advice 
regarding investment frauds would have likely been ineffective.
I know Mr N will be disappointed by my findings, but I dont think its reasonable for Wise to 
be held liable for his loss in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman