DRN-3480823
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to inform him that promotional offers on his 
credit card were expiring. He wants Lloyds to refund the additional interest he says he was 
charged as a result. 
What happened
Mr D holds a credit card with Lloyds. Over the years, hes opted into many promotional 
offers. This means he hasnt had to pay interest on his account balance for much of this 
time. In December 2021, Mr D noticed an interest charge on his statement. So he called 
Lloyds to ask why he hadnt been notified an interest-free period was ending, but said he 
was told there was no recent record of a notification being sent  so he complained. He said 
Lloyds should refund all interest charged since the expiry of his promotions as, had he been 
notified, he wouldve cleared any relevant balances before interest was charged. 
Lloyds responded, but said their records showed text alerts had been sent. Furthermore, they 
said that promotion end dates were clearly set out in Mr Ds statements, so they felt theyd 
provided adequate notification. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Mr D had no promotions expiring around December 2021, so it wasnt unreasonable that 
Lloyds could find no record of a notification being sent around this time. And she felt the 
statements made it clear when Mr Ds offers were expiring, so she didnt ask Lloyds to do 
anything further. But Mr D remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says it was in December 2021 he noticed hed been charged interest. So, Ive first 
looked at the statements provided, dated May 2018 through to February 2022, to see what 
interest has been charged. Having done so I can see no interest was charged from May 2018 
through to the end of 2019, as Mr D had taken advantage of three 0% promotional offers on 
money and balance transfers. These offers expired in January, April, and May 2020; and 
each offer applied to a portion of his credit card balance from when each transfer took place. 
I can also see that interest began to accrue following the January 2020 expiry, with further 
interest accruing following the April and May 2020 expiry. This continued to accrue until Mr D 
noticed this in December 2021, and beyond. And Im satisfied this interest has been charged 
correctly in line with the terms of the promotion. So Ive gone on to consider next, whether 
Mr D was adequately notified of these 0% offers expiring. 
Directly below the credit card balance on each statement, theres a section titled Breakdown 
of balance. Below this it sets out the interest rate Mr D is being charged on each proportion 
of his balance. For instance, in the November 2019 statement, it shows Mr D is being charged 
0% on £2,369, expiring in January 2020; 0% on £6,050, expiring in April 2020; and 0% on 
£1,030, expiring in May 2020. The remaining statements are set out in the same format. 
Ive also looked closely at the statements dated December 2019, March 2020, and April 
2020. On the front page of each is a section titled Important Information. Below which, it 
asks Mr D to please note that his promotional rate of 0% is due to expire the following 
month. It then sets out the new rate of interest applicable. So, Im satisfied the statements 
make clear the rates Mr D is being charged, and when those rates are due to expire; as well 
as the new rates hell be required to pay. 
Ive looked next at the text message notifications Mr D says he wasnt sent, and which he 
attributes the absence of, to him not being able to take appropriate steps to clear his balance 
in time. To support his argument, Mr D has sent in examples of previous text message 
notifications hes received, which inform him his 0% rate is coming to an end. 
Ive looked closely at the above messages. But having done so, I can see theyre dated 
December 2019, March 2020, and May 2020  with each message referring to a promotional 
rate expiring in January, April, and May 2020 respectively. So, it seems the messages Mr D 
is using as an example are in fact, the very messages he said he didnt receive. To be clear, 
the messages sent relate specifically to the three promotions in question. So, from the 
evidence Mr D has himself provided, Im satisfied Lloyds have notified him his promotional 
rates were expiring. So, for the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding his complaint. 
On a separate note, I can also see that Mr D took further advantage of a 0% promotional 
rate on a balance transfer around September 2021. Mr D should note that this offer will 
expire on 29 May 2023. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman