DRN-3129360
The complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Insurance plc mishandled his claim on a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Covea, I include the retailer who arranged the policy and others insofar as I
hold Covea responsible for their actions.
 
What happened
Mr W had a car with a catalytic converter. The car had been made in about 2010 and its
catalytic converter hadnt been replaced. For each of the two years from 20 January 2021,
Mr W had the car insured on a policy under which Covea was the insurance company
responsible for dealing with claims.
In January 2021, the car had a recoded mileage of over 100,000. Mr W reported the theft of
its catalytic converter. Covea asked him to pay 50% of the cost of a replacement, stating that
a new catalytic converter would put Mr W into a better position than before the theft.
Mr W complained to Covea about this. By a final response dated early February 2021,
Covea turned down his complaint. So Mr W brought his complaint to us in March.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator, at first, didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought
that Covea had acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy.
Later our investigator changed her view. She recommended that the complaint should be
upheld. She didnt think that Covea had provided enough evidence to support the statement
of betterment in Mr Ws claim. She thought that the policy term being applied wasnt fair in
this case. She recommended that Covea should cover the costs in full for a replacement
catalytic converter.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W  
and to Covea on 28 September 2021. I summarise my findings:
It wasnt clear to me whether Mr W had paid for a repair  and/or been able to drive 
the car.
Id noted the input from Coveas engineer. It includes the following:
Across the Motor Industry there may be varying opinions on how long a 
Catalytic Converter will last however the vast majority say around 10 years or 
100,000 miles, however it could require replacing sooner or even later than 
this dependent upon the driving style of the owner and conditions the vehicle 
is used
As the engineer has relevant qualifications, I accepted that the consensus is that a 
catalytic converter will last for around 10 years or 100,000 miles.
The engineer continued as follows:
The performance, in terms of efficiency is very much likely to improve with a 
new Catalytic Converter, however this is not quantifiable without in-depth 
analysis which is onerous to say the least.
The rationale for the betterment contribution is that the vehicle condition is 
improved.
And the engineer concluded as follows:
Regarding the comments around should the part be due to fail or be replaced 
soon, this is very much speculation as the part may have been failing at the 
time it was stolen or even failed the very next day or not at all however we 
could not know this for sure. However we can look at industry data and 
demonstrate beyond doubt the part now fitted to the vehicle is better than the 
part it has replaced, most likely working more efficiently and without question 
will be working for much longer.
From what he had said, I considered that the engineers view is based less on 
performance and efficiency and more on the better condition of a new catalytic 
converter and in particular its greater remaining lifespan compared to the old one.
The betterment term didnt say what is meant by repairs improve the condition of
your car. So I wasnt persuaded that a new catalytic converter would  or had  
improved the condition of Mr Ws car within the meaning of the betterment term.
I didnt consider it fair for Covea to rely on this term in Mr Ws case.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from Covea, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Covea Insurance plc to:
1. either replace Mr Ws catalytic converter on payment of the policy excess of 
£150.00; or
2. reimburse Mr W (after deducting the policy excess of £150.00) any reasonable 
invoice he has paid for such replacement; and
3. pay simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the amount of any such invoice from 
the date Mr W paid it to the date Covea reimburses it. If Covea considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Mr W accepted the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The clear inference must be that neither the engineer nor anybody else in the 
industry has ever been done an onerous in-depth analysis.The industry does not really have a clue how long a catalytic converter lasts, so 
simply sticks to the 100,000 miles/ 10 years mantra, which of course suits the 
insurers who can make reductions on claims.
If the outcome of this case was that the industry could point to an ombudsman ruling 
that supported its evidence-free assertions about catalytic converters, he would feel 
he had done more harm than good in pursuing it.
Covea has based all its arguments on car performance which turns out cannot be 
properly tested.
A garage fitted a new catalytic converter. He has sent us a copy of the invoice for 
£501.20 dated 29 January 2021 and a copy of a card payment slip. He has had the 
use of the car since February.
Covea hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Section 1a: Loss of or damage to your car if your car can be repaired
What we can cover you for
We will insure you against loss of or damage to your car caused by:
 accidental or malicious damage;
 fire; or
 theft or attempted theft.
We can choose to use parts or accessories which arent supplied by your car
manufacturer but are of a similar type and quality to the parts and accessories we are
replacing.
If the repairs improve the condition of your car, we can ask you to pay part of the
repair cost.
You will have to pay the repairer the total excess as shown in your schedule.
Ive added the underlining of the words which I will refer to as the betterment term. I will
come back to that.
The policy schedule said that the total excess would be £150.00.
Ive noted the input from Coveas engineer. It includes the following:
Across the Motor Industry there may be varying opinions on how long a Catalytic
Converter will last however the vast majority say around 10 years or 100,000 miles,
however it could require replacing sooner or even later than this dependent upon the
driving style of the owner and conditions the vehicle is used
The engineer continued as follows:
The performance, in terms of efficiency is very much likely to improve with a new
Catalytic Converter, however this is not quantifiable without in-depth analysis whichis onerous to say the least.
The rationale for the betterment contribution is that the vehicle condition is improved.
I accept Mr Ws inference that the engineer hadnt done an analysis of the performance or 
efficiency of catalytic converters over time. Nevertheless, as the engineer has relevant 
qualifications, I accept his opinion that the vast majority in the motor industry say that a 
catalytic converter will last for around 10 years or 100,000 miles.
And the engineer concluded as follows:
Regarding the comments around should the part be due to fail or be replaced soon,
this is very much speculation as the part may have been failing at the time it was
stolen or even failed the very next day or not at all however we could not know this
for sure. However, we can look at industry data and demonstrate beyond doubt the
part now fitted to the vehicle is better than the part it has replaced, most likely
working more efficiently and without question will be working for much longer.
From what he has said, I consider that the engineers view of betterment is based less on 
performance and efficiency and more on the better condition of a new catalytic converter and 
in particular its greater remaining lifespan compared to the old one.
In March 2021, Mr W told us the following:
 It is specifically the catalytic converter which cost £240 - so Covea want me to pay
£120  to which I object. Covea will pay for the labour.
Mr W has now clarified that a garage fitted a new catalytic converter in late January 2021, 
and he has been using the car since the following month. The invoice lists four priced items. 
The first looks like a labour charge and the last is £260.00 for a catalytic converter. Covea 
hasnt yet had an opportunity to review the invoice.
The betterment term doesnt say what is meant by repairs improve the condition of your 
car. So Im not persuaded that the new catalytic converter has improved the condition of Mr 
Ws car within the meaning of the betterment term. I dont consider it fair for Covea to rely on 
this term in Mr Ws case. 
 
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Covea to meet the cost of supplying and fitting a 
replacement catalytic converter  subject to payment or deduction of the policy excess of 
£150.00. And insofar as Mr W has been out of pocket, I find it fair and reasonable to add 
interest at our usual rate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Covea Insurance plc to:
1. reimburse Mr W (after deducting the policy excess of £150.00) any reasonable 
amount he has paid for supplying and fitting a replacement of his catalytic converter; 
and
2. pay simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on such amount from the date Mr W paid it to the date Covea reimburses it. If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman