DRN-2636524
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Ltd rejected his claim for damage under his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr T said as he was driving an engine light came on warning him that the 
coolant levels in his car were too low. Mr T said it wasnt possible for him to immediately pull 
over as he wasnt allowed to stop on the road he was travelling on.
Mr T called for roadside assistance from where he later stopped and he and his car were 
recovered to his home and workplace respectively in the early hours of the morning.
Later that day an agent recovered Mr Ts car from the workplace address to a garage. 
Mr T said he had to chase Aviva for an updates on his claim. 
In September 2020 an engineer instructed by Aviva inspected Mr Ts car. Mr T told the 
engineer that hed caught the front bumper when leaving a car park the evening before. 
In September 2020 Aviva told Mr T that because hed driven the car while the engine 
warning light was on hed caused further avoidable damage. So Aviva said Mr Ts claim 
wouldnt be met as the damage was caused by mechanical failure.
Mr T said Aviva paid him £125 compensation for delays caused and a failure to call Mr T 
back when promised. Mr T says this isnt enough and asked us to look at his complaint. He 
said he stopped driving as soon as it was safe to pull over. He wants Aviva to settle his claim 
as a total loss and pay him the market value for his car. 
Our investigator checked the road which Mr T said he was travelling on when the warning 
light came on and found that it was a dual carriageway with a hard shoulder. So she felt it 
was possible for Mr T to have pulled over immediately and not continue driving. 
Mr Ts journey was calculated as being around 50 miles from where he started driving to 
where he called for breakdown assistance. The investigator found that Avivas engineer 
reported that the damage to the coolant was minor when Mr T had a collision in the car park. 
But due to Mr T continuing to drive with no water in the car, the damage was catastrophic. 
The engineer said the car would have been shaking as well as displaying warning lights 
which Mr T would have seen on the dashboard. As Mr Ts car was only a year old, the 
engineer said it would have provided multiple warnings to Mr T to alert him to stop driving 
the car. 
Mr T provided video footage which he says showed the car was driving normally. He said he 
pulled over as soon as it was safe to do so, but didnt specifically comment on the 
investigators findings that there was a hard shoulder. He said he was driving for about 20 
minutes from the start of his journey to when he pulled over. Mr T wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva is responsible for some delay and poor service in replying to Mr T when 
promised and arranging an inspection of his car. For this I think the compensation Aviva paid 
of £125 is fair and in line with awards we give for similar cases. 
The key pieces of information in deciding whether Avivas decision to reject Mr Ts claim was 
reasonable are:
The recovery agents findings when he attended to Mr Ts car in the early hours of 17 
August 2020.
The engineers findings on inspecting Mr Ts car in September 2020 at the garage it 
was recovered to along with a senior engineers view and;
Mr Ts account that it wasnt safe to pull over immediately on the road he was 
travelling when the engine warning light came on.
The recovery agent said that the front end of Mr Ts car was damaged and the radiator was 
severely damaged due to the impact. He said the radiator wasnt holding any water. There 
was no compression due to being driven with no water.
The engineer instructed by Aviva said the garage told him Mr Ts car had been driven with 
no coolant and caused engine damage. The coolant had been replaced by the garage when 
he attended. He inspected the damage to the front bumper which had led to the radiator 
damage. 
Avivas senior engineer advised that the car suffered catastrophic engine failure. As Mr Ts 
car was a modern car (a year old) the engineer said Mr T would have been aware of the 
problem as there would have been a bright yellow light warning of the coolant light issues, 
followed by a red warning light for engine problems advising Mr T to stop immediately. 
It isnt clear as to how long Mr T drove for after the engine warning light came on. He said 
the total time he was driving for was around 20 minutes. He told us he wasnt able to stop 
immediately on the road he was travelling on as there were no places to stop. However, in 
the video footage he provided and from checking the road online, there was a visible hard 
shoulder. 
The footage Mr T provided is a few seconds long and I agree with Mr T that it doesnt show 
the car shaking. But it also doesnt show the dashboard. Theres no way of knowing from the 
footage provided at what stage of the journey it was taken. So it isnt enough to contradict 
the overall findings of the engineers and the recovery agent. 
I realise Mr T will be very disappointed. But this means that  based on the information 
available to Aviva  I think its decision to reject Mr Ts claim for accidental damage was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. So Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman