DRN-3709068
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc declined a loan application he made due 
to his age.
What happened
Mr M applied for an interest free loan, provided by Mitsubishi, to purchase some flooring for 
his house on 13 October 2021. The application was declined and Mitsubishi wrote to Mr M to 
tell him this. Mr M complained to Mitsubishi.
Following Mr M complaining, Mitsubishi again wrote to Mr M on 20 October 2021 saying the 
loan had been declined due to his age and the type of finance he was applying for. It 
explained how he could appeal this decision. Mr M replied on the same day and asked for an 
official complaint to be raised. 
Mitsubishi didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint so he referred it to our Service. Mr M said hed 
been discriminated against because of his age. He said hed had to use a credit card to pay 
for the flooring and has since taken out a loan. This had cost him more due to interest 
charges and meant he had less credit available for other purchases he needed. Mr M 
believes that the declined Mitsubishi application has had an impact on how other local 
businesses are dealing with him.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. She said that Mitsubishi hadnt provided 
any evidence to explain why Mr Ms application was declined based on his age. She didnt 
think it fair that the initial letter from Mitsubishi didnt tell Mr M how to appeal the application. 
Our Investigator noted that it was Mr Ms decision to proceed with the purchase using other 
means, but she thought that Mitsubishi should pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by declining the application because of Mr Ms age and not telling 
Mr M he could appeal the decision sooner. 
Neither Mr M nor Mitsubishi accepted our Investigators opinion. 
Mr M said he needed new flooring because of mobility issues and hed now taken out a loan 
which was charging interest, whereas the finance from Mitsubishi wouldve been 0% interest.
Mitsubishi said that it wouldnt provide details of its lending criteria, but that this was 
designed to consider the overall risk of lending in the circumstances. It agreed to pay £100 
compensation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review and 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that Mitsubishi has discriminated against him based on his age. He says this 
breaches the Equality Act 2010.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Mitsubishi has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
The Equality Act 2010 lets financial services providers make decisions based on age when 
providing services. This is known as the financial services exemption. But this doesnt mean 
that businesses can apply age limits and refuse to lend to a consumer because of their age 
without any justification.
Where a business has carried out a risk assessment involving age, it must base its 
assessment on relevant information from a source on which its reasonable to rely. In other 
words, it cant just make assumptions or take into account irrelevant considerations. If a 
businesss risk assessment doesnt meet those requirements, set out above, then it cant 
rely on the exemption from the Equality Act 2010. Though in certain circumstances it may 
nevertheless be able to show that any discrimination is objectively justified and so not 
unlawful. This area is complex and this is only a very brief description of the relevant law. As 
I say, its not for me to make a finding about whether or not Mitsubishi has acted in breach of 
the Equality Act. But, nevertheless, this is relevant law for me to take into account in 
deciding whether or not it treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. 
The initial letter sent to Mr M gave no reason for the loan being declined. It was the next 
letter that suggested the lending was declined because Mr M was 84 years old. It provided 
no further detail. This second letter also set out that Mr M could appeal this decision. 
However, given that Mr M had been told his application had been declined due to his age, I 
can see why he wouldve been reluctant to appeal this. His age wasnt likely to change 
following any appeal. And this letter suggests that the decision Mitsubishi made was directly 
based on his age.
Our Investigator asked Mitsubishi for details of its age limits and for further information 
regarding any risk assessment Mitsubishi mayve carried out when setting its age limits. 
Mitsubishi said it wasnt required to disclose its lending criteria and provided no details of 
any risk assessment it had carried out. It also hasnt confirmed the exact reasons Mr Ms 
application was declined, the answer it gave in response to this question was very vague.
Mitsubishi is required to cooperate with our investigations under its regulatory requirements. 
So, its frustrating that it hasnt provided any further details on its lending criteria and any risk 
assessment it may have carried out  both of which are enquiries its reasonable for us to 
make and expect responses to. Ive taken into account its failure to respond to those 
enquiries in deciding this case.
Mitsubishi says that the loan was automatically declined due to Mr Ms age. Its not 
explained this decision, and its not shown me its lending policy in this area, or explained its 
rationale for that policy. Its not explained what risk assessments it has carried out, or the 
sources of information relied on in those assessments. Its given no evidence of how it 
arrived at its maximum age for this type of loan, or even what the maximum age is  if it has 
a maximum age limit. In the circumstances, without further evidence and taking into account 
relevant law as well as my wider remit, I think its likely Mitsubishis decision was solely or 
mainly based on Mr Ms age, and Im not satisfied that this was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Mitsubishi hadnt completed a credit check, nor had it underwritten the loan or looked at 
matters such as affordability. Because of this, I cant safely say that Mr M wouldve been 
approved for the loan, even if it werent for his age. Mr M acknowledges that he needed this 
flooring. And like our Investigator, I note that Mr M proceeded with the flooring purchase in 
the knowledge that hed have to pay interest on it. So, Im not going to ask Mitsubishi to 
compensate him for the interest he is now paying. 
However, Mitsubishis decision led Mr M to believe that his application had been declined 
based solely on his age. It hasnt provided evidence to satisfy me this was a fair and 
reasonable basis for declining the loan. And this mustve been upsetting for Mr M. 
Furthermore, it took some days for Mitsubishi to tell Mr M he could appeal this decision. I 
think Mitsubishi should compensate him for this.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about the impact this has had on Mr M. Whilst Mitsubishi was not 
obliged to agree to Mr Ms application, its not provided the required information to evidence 
that it gave it proper consideration or that it was entitled to decline for the reasons it gave  
Mr Ms age. I agree with our Investigator that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should pay Mr M 
£250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman