DRN-1431780
The complaint
Mr I complains that MBNA Limited unfairly defaulted his account. He's also unhappy with the 
information he was given about its default process.
What happened
Mr I holds a credit card account with MBNA. From June 2018 until November 2018 inclusive 
he failed to make payments to his account. So, arrears began to accrue.  
On 16 August 2018 Mr I told MBNA he was experiencing financial difficulties. It reviewed 
information about his income and expenditure and recognised he wasnt able to maintain the 
required minimum payments to his account.  The payment Mr I offered MBNA wasnt 
sufficient for his account to be placed on a formal reduced payment programme. But, to 
assist Mr I, MBNA agreed to waive all interest and suppress any fees on his account. 
MBNA informed Mr I that arrears on his account would continue to accrue and that its policy 
was to default an account after more than six payments of arrears had accrued. On 18 
August 2018 it wrote to him to explain that the repayment amount he could afford to pay 
wasnt sufficient to prevent it registering a default with credit reference agencies (CRAs). But 
it said it would give him 30 days notice before doing so.
As the arrears on Mr Is account continued to accrue MBNA sent him a Notice of Default on 
1 November 2018. This explained that in the absence of payment MBNA would register a 
default with CRAs after a period of 30 days.
On 1 December 2018 Mr I telephoned MBNA to query what payment was required to 
prevent his account defaulting that month. He was told the oldest arrears needed to be paid, 
which stood at £118.31. But the call handler informed Mr I this payment wouldnt prevent his 
account defaulting in the future as this could happen after six payments of arrears had 
accrued.
On 22 December 2018 Mr I contacted MBNA to make a payment hed been told to make 
earlier that month. This stopped Mr Is account defaulting in December 2018. But MBNA said 
Mr I was told that payment wouldnt prevent his account defaulting at the end of January 
2019  it would simply push the default back a month.
On 31 January 2019 Mr I contacted MNBA again. He wanted to make a payment to prevent 
his account defaulting. But MBNA said, by the time he called, the deadline for payments 
being processed had lapsed. So, Mr Is account defaulted that day. Mr I said, during that call, 
MBNA told him it would remove the default.
But that didnt happen. And, in February 2019, MBNA sent him a termination of agreement 
letter. Mr I was unhappy with this and complained to MBNA. After it investigated Mr Is 
complaint it didnt uphold it. It acknowledged that he had made a payment on 31 January 
2019. However, it disputed Mr Is recollection that it said it would reverse the default. It 
wasnt able to locate the call recording from the call Mr I made on 31 January 2019. But it 
said it had informed him it would consider reversing the default and, having reviewed the position, had been unable to do so. MBNA also told Mr I had, even if it hadnt defaulted Mr 
Is account in January 2019, its unlikely hed have been able to make the payment required 
to prevent his account defaulting in February 2019. So it didnt agree it had made any errors. 
Being dissatisfied with Mr Is response to his complaint Mr I referred it to our service. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence provided by MBA and Mr I. But they were persuaded the 
default had been correctly recorded in view of the account payment history. They did, 
however, feel MBNA had given Mr I conflicting information about the process of recording a 
default on his account during the call he made on 22 December 2018. So, they 
recommended MBNA pay Mr I £100 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused. 
MBNA agreed with our investigators recommendation but Mr I didnt. He said MBNA had 
told him hed been incorrectly sent default information, which he could ignore. And hed been 
assured, when making his payment on 31 January 2019 that his account wouldnt default 
that day. Mr I felt the recording from 31 January 2019 was needed to confirm this and was 
concerned MBNA hadnt provided it to our service. So, he asked an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the financial difficulties that Mr I experienced here. Im pleased to 
see that MBNA engaged with him to work out what he was able to afford to reduce his 
account balance. And I can see it waived interest and charges, which Id expect a 
responsible lender to consider doing after it had been notified a customer is suffering 
financial hardship.
Ive listened to about 15 call recordings Mr I made to MBNA. But I regret to inform him I that I 
havent been able to listen to his call to MBNA on 31 January 2019 because it hasnt been 
able to locate that call recording. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr I contacted MBNA on that date because he made a payment during 
that call. However, I cant speculate on the reasons why MBNA hasnt been able to provide 
our service with a copy of this call recording. And I can only decide this complaint based on 
the available evidence. 
I appreciate that Mr I feels this complaint cant properly be considered by our service in the 
absence of the missing call recording. But Id like to reassure him that Im satisfied I have 
sufficient information to enable me to reach a final decision here.
I can understand why Mr I is upset his account defaulted on 31 January 2019. He received a 
statement issued earlier that month, which gave him until 18 February 2019 to make his 
payment. So, when he made his payment on 31 January 2019 he thought his account 
wouldnt default. It, therefore, must have been frustrating for him to learn hed missed the 
payment processing deadline for that day and that the default would be recorded. With that 
in mind Ive carefully thought about whether MBNA acted incorrectly in defaulting Mr Is 
account.   
When a customers account goes into arrears for a number of months, as Mr Is did here, a 
business is entitled to issue a default notice and default an account. This is a commercial 
decision a business is entitled to take if a customer isnt meeting their contractual 
repayments. And guidelines set out by the Information Commissioners Office say that a default should be recorded on a customers credit file when the account is in arrears by 3-6 
months. 
As Ive already outlined, Mr Is default was recorded on 31 January 2019. I can see that from 
June 2018 until November 2018 inclusive no payments were made by Mr I. In December 
2018 he made the payment required to prevent a default at that time. But, by this point, his 
account was already in arrears by six months.
The payment Mr I made on 22 December 2018 cleared the oldest arrears on his account. 
But it didnt settle the balance  it only prevented his account defaulting in December 2018. 
So, to prevent his account defaulting in January 2019, a further payment was required. 
The payment Mr I made on 31 January 2019 was received after MBNAs deadline for 
processing payments. It therefore didnt credit his account until 1 February 2019. And this 
meant, at the end of January 2019, his account was seven payments in arrears. 
I appreciate that Mr I might think MBNA acted unfairly in defaulting his account on 31 
January 2019. But it didnt default his account until he was in arrears by seven payments. It 
followed ICO guidelines and its own policies. So, I cant reasonably find that it was unfair for 
MBNA to default Mr Is account when it did.
Even if MBNA had agreed not to default Mr Is account on 31 January 2019  as he said it 
promised  I think the overall outcome wouldnt be that different. I say this because, on 1 
February 2019, MBNA changed its policy about when it defaults a customers account. 
Ive seen a template notice of variation letter MBNA sent its customers in December 2018, 
which outlined its new procedure for allocating payments and defaulting accounts clearly and 
in some detail. Mr I hasnt told our service he didnt receive this letter. And I think that, in 
writing to its customers in December 2018, MBNA provided sufficient notice of the change to 
its default policy.
This change meant that for Mr I to prevent his account defaulting in February 2019 he would 
have needed to clear his full account arrears. His arrears by this point were just over £1050. 
And, given Mr Is financial circumstances, Im not persuaded hed have been able to make 
the payment needed to comply with MBNAs new policy. It follows that I think his account 
would have most likely defaulted in February 2019 had it not already defaulted the previous 
month.
I appreciate the default will adversely affect Mr Is credit score for some time. But, as our 
investigator explained, financial businesses should ensure that the information they report to 
credit reference agencies is accurate. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete 
and up to date.  
Based on what Ive seen MBNA recorded information about the conduct of Mr Is account  
which is what wed expect a business to do. Taking all the circumstances into account, Im 
satisfied that MBNA reported missed payment information correctly. And I cant ask it to 
remove it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
Ill turn now to the concerns Mr I has raised about the information he was given by MBNA 
regarding its default process. 
Mr I told our service that MBNA advised him correspondence about his account being 
defaulted had been sent in error. But, theres no mention of this in the call recordings Ive 
heard. And I havent seen any evidence of MBNA instructing Mr I to disregard such correspondence. I can also see that from the letter MBNA sent Mr I in August he was told to 
take note of any legal or regulatory notices issued after the date of this letter. 
I think if Mr I had been told correspondence had been sent to him in error this would have 
been referenced in MBNAs records or mentioned during its telephone discussions with him. 
It follows that I havent seen enough to persuade me that correspondence relating to account 
defaults werent correctly sent to Mr I by MBNA.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think MBNA made an error in defaulting Mr Is 
account when it did. Its acted fairly and reasonably. I therefore dont uphold this part of Mr 
Is complaint. 
Putting things right
While I don't think MBNA made an error in defaulting Mr I's account I do think it could have 
dealt with matters better during its telephone call with him on 22 December 2018. I agree 
with our investigators comments that MBNAs guidance about how its default process could 
have been made clearer during that discussion. I can understand how, on the back of that 
conversation, Mr I may have thought that making a further payment in January could prevent 
the default being recorded. I think MBNA could have done more during this call to manage 
Mr Is expectations of how he needed to manage his account to prevent it defaulting. 
Im satisfied that the way in which the call on 22 December was dealt with warrants an award 
of compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr I was caused. I can see our 
investigator recommended MBNA pay £100 compensation, which its agreed to pay. Having 
thought carefully about the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied this amount 
is fair and reasonable. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking MBNA to pay any more.
I therefore uphold Mr I's concerns about the information he was given about his account 
defaulting on 22 December 2018. And I order MBNA to pay Mr I £100 compensation to 
reflect the fact that it could have managed his expectations better during that call.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. MBNA Limited should pay Mr I £100 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman