DRN-3266483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has 
dealt with their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an annual travel insurance policy, valid between February 2020 and 
February 2021, underwritten by URV. They also purchased additional travel disruption cover. 
They had booked a trip to and a tour of New Zealand departing from the UK on 22 February 
2020. From there, they were due to travel to Fiji on 24 March 2020 for 6 days, after which, 
they would travel back to the UK departing from Fiji on 30 March 2020, via Singapore. 
They travelled as planned but werent able to take their flights from New Zealand to Fiji on 
24 March 2020 as the flights were cancelled. On 22 March 2020, The Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), previously known as the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised: if youre currently a visitor in Fiji, youre advised to 
prepare to leave as soon as possible.
On 23 March, the FCDO advised anyone who lived in the UK but currently travelling abroad 
to return.
Mr and Mrs M purchased additional flights following further cancellations and eventually 
returned home on 7 April 2020. 
In May 2020, they made a claim to URV for their additional flights and accommodation costs. 
URV assessed the claim under the extended stay section of the policy and partially settled 
the claim. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the costs URV paid for the additional flights and 
brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think URV had fairly assessed or 
calculated Mr and Mrs Ms claim. She recommended further payment was due up to a 
maximum of £1,000 per person. But Mr and Mrs M disagreed and said the claim should be 
covered under section 17 of the policy even though their return to the UK was delayed rather 
than curtailed. And their return flight costs were considerably higher than the refunds 
received from the airlines. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 December 2021. Neither party has provided any further 
comments. And so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings, which Ive set out 
in full, below. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Section 17, the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy, says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for your proportion only of 
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable 
additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. Cancellation of the whole trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b. Cancellation of a pre-paid excursion booked in your home area up to £250 is 
necessary and unavoidable or
c. The trip is curtailed or interrupted before completion as a result of any of the 
following events occurring:
1. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the 
World Health Organisation (WHO) or similar body issuing a directive:
a. prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or
b. recommending evacuation from the country or specific area or event to which 
you were travelling providing such directive came into force after you 
purchased this insurance or booking any trip, whichever is the later, or in the 
case of cutting short your trip after you had left the United Kingdom to 
commence the trip.                                                                                                
Mr and Mrs M paid an additional premium for travel disruption cover under section 17. They 
were due to travel from New Zealand to Fiji for 6 nights on 24 March 2020. But their flight to 
Fiji was cancelled. FCDO advice recommended evacuation from Fiji on 22 March 2020 for 
anyone visiting and also advised anyone travelling abroad to return home on 23 March 2020. 
That advice remained in force on the date Mr and Mrs M were due to travel to Fiji. They 
werent able to continue with their original itinerary and made alternative travel plans which 
resulted in their return to the UK on 7 April 2020. Although this was after their original return 
date, Im satisfied their trip was interrupted before completion as they werent able to 
continue to Fiji and had to make alternative travel plans to return home. 
So I think the claim should be considered under section 17 of the policy which has a limit of 
up to £10,000 per person. URV should reassess the claim as if it is covered under section 17 
of the policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to re-assess the claim, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman