DRN-3995363
The complaint
Mr U complained about delays in getting his car repaired and he didnt think the overall 
standard of workmanship was satisfactory. He had a car insurance policy with U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI).
What happened
Mr U had a claim accepted under his car policy and he paid an excess of £1,100 to have the 
repairs to his car carried out. However, he was disappointed with the quality of the repairs 
completed by UKIs appointed contractors. He said each time his car went in for a repair it 
had to be taken back with a new issue. Hes still not happy as he doesnt think his car has 
been restored to its pre-loss condition.
Mr U wasnt happy as he had to complain when the appointed contractors used non 
genuine parts when repairing his vehicle. UKI agreed to change these parts to genuine 
parts.
Mr U is unhappy with the delays. He feels frustrated and inconvenienced. Hes not had his 
own car to drive, and he feels hes constantly faced difficulties getting his repairs resolved. 
He thinks his excess should be reimbursed and wants a significant sum of compensation.
UKI has acknowledged that the claim hasnt run smoothly. Between UKI and its contractors it 
has paid £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr U. It has also 
offered a further £200 in compensation, which has been rejected by Mr U. However, UKI 
said it has completed the repairs related to the claim and it said the damage caused by its 
contractor has also been repaired. It said the remaining things that it has been asked to 
repair were pre-existing before the loss or had occurred since the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the £600 compensation 
offered was fair in the circumstances of the claim and consistent with the awards our service 
gives. She recognised Mr U had been provided a courtesy car during his repairs which was 
extended for the period of the troubles. She was persuaded the repairs from the claim had 
been completed and UKI had used parts which satisfied the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Mr U disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr U has been extremely frustrated for a long time with the issues he has faced, 
however, Im not able to ask UKI to reimburse Mr U the excess payment he has made. Mr U 
paid UKI £1,100 upfront to allow UKI to proceed with settling the claim. The excess payment 
is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I dont think UKI has done anything 
wrong in asking Mr U to pay this. The excess payment is high, but this was a choice Mr U 
made when he took out the policy. By selecting a higher excess payment, he would have 
benefitted from lower insurance premiums. It wouldnt be fair for me to ask UKI to reimburse 
this. However, I can consider whether I think the compensation offered is fair.
Mr U was unhappy that UKIs contractors used non genuine parts when repairing his 
vehicle. Ive checked the policy which Mr U chose, and the policy clearly sets out that parts 
can be used that werent made by the cars manufacturer. The policy states We may decide 
to repair your car with parts that havent been made by your cars manufacturer, but that are 
of a similar standard. This can include recycled parts. If any part or accessory is not 
available, the most well pay for that part will be the cost shown in the manufacturers last UK 
price list (plus reasonable fitting costs).
Therefore, as UKIs contractor had complied with the policy  and there hasnt been any 
evidence put forward to show the parts they used were defective or didnt meet industry 
standards, I cant say UKI has been unreasonable or done anything wrong. On the contrary, 
as Mr U was dissatisfied, UKI agreed as a gesture of goodwill to replace the non genuine 
parts with those made by the cars manufacturer. I think this was a reasonable step for UKI 
to follow.
Mr Us car went back and forth several times with UKIs contractors  this will have caused a 
significant amount of frustration and inconvenience for Mr U. I have noted Mr U had access 
to a courtesy car throughout this period. So, whilst I know it wouldve been disappointing not 
to be able to drive his own car, I do think UKI has made a reasonable effort to mitigate the 
impact of this on Mr U. With any claim there will be a certain level of inconvenience caused 
by the incident and the claim. UKI has acknowledged it has contributed to some delays and 
has offered (in conjunction with its contractors) £600 in compensation (£400 of which has 
been paid).
I think the compensation offered is reasonable and is aligned to our compensation award 
framework. The reason I say this, is that I have examined the claim notes in detail to 
understand the actions that have been taken by UKI and its contractors. I can see several 
issues have been raised and as the claim progressed further new issues were cited. From 
reviewing the notes, Im persuaded that UKI (or its contractors on its behalf) have thoroughly 
investigated the issues Mr U raised.
I appreciate Mr Us viewpoint that his car is not yet fully repaired. However, I think the 
evidence shows its likely that not all the issues raised were linked to the claim itself and 
either existed before the reported loss or occurred afterwards. For example, there was 
evidence Mr Us alloys had been damaged again since the initial repairs had taken place; 
and it was unlikely that UKIs contractors had caused some of the issues reported (such as 
misaligned panels, UKI hadnt worked on the panels apart from for blending, and the bumper 
was painted off the car so paint wouldnt have been applied near the lower panel).
I say its likely that UKIs contractors didnt cause some of these issues. However, I cant be 
certain, but as I dont have any evidence to show UKIs contractors did cause the issues  
then Im unable to uphold this part of the complaint. I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
UKI to rectify these issues if its likely they werent linked to the claim.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I think the compensation of £600 is fair. Im also 
persuaded UKI tried to mitigate issues by providing a courtesy car throughout and providing 
a further goodwill gesture of swapping in manufacturers parts rather than using non 
genuine parts. Mr U can still claim the £200 compensation he was offered but has not yet 
received from UKI.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require U K Insurance Limited to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman