DRN-4230574
The complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as House of Fraser (NewDay) irresponsibly 
gave her a credit card account and credit limit increases that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In May 1993, Mrs M applied for a credit card account with NewDay who were trading as 
House of Fraser. NewDay took over the account on 5 February 2008. Its not clear what 
the initial credit limit was but in December 2013 the credit limit increased from £1,400 to 
£2,100. 
In 2021, Mrs M complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 21 June 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I set out an extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Mrs Ms complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay say 
that because they took over the account from House of Fraser, and due to the passing of 
time, they have no information about the initial lending or the cards management. Our 
investigator thought that because House of Fraser made the initial lending decision, that 
wasnt something we could consider against NewDay. I have seen testimony that that is 
what NewDay thinks and no evidence that suggests NewDay didnt take on the liabilities for 
the accounts they took over. 
But there is a different reason we cannot look at the initial lending decision in 1993. Or any 
lending decisions up to 6 April 2007 for that matter. I say that because we can only look at 
events relating to credit broking that occurred on or after 6 April 2007. That's because 6 April 
2007 is when our jurisdiction to look at these types of complaints began. Our jurisdiction isn't 
retrospective. As the event complained of here (the initial lending decision by House of 
Fraser and the management of the account before 6 April 2007) is before 6 April 2007 it isn't
a complaint we can look at because it pre-dates our jurisdiction.
So, I will look at the lending decisions made after 6 April 2007. The only credit increase 
we know about after that time was in December 2013 when the credit limit increased from 
£1,400 to £2,100. 
NewDay has not explained what credit checks they used to determine the amount of credit 
they were able to offer in 2013. I do have a credit report from Mrs M dated from 2021 which 
does refer back to some accounts that were running in 2013. I have found no evidence that 
Mrs M was not managing her other credit at the time of the credit limit increase in December 
2013. The credit report seems to suggest that what NewDay would have seen was a 
customer with no defaults or CCJs or a history of missed or late payments on her other 
accounts. 
And whilst NewDay have produced information about how Mrs M was managing her credit 
account, due to the passing of time, that information doesnt start until June 2014. So, whilst 
I can see that Mrs M was managing her NewDay account well in 2014, that doesnt help me 
assess how things were in December 2013. 
I have had regard for the bank statements that Mrs M has provided. They show that Mrs M 
was running a negative balance in her current accounts. And I have also noted that some of 
the account statements show more money going out of the account in a month than entered 
it. They also show that in some months there was more funds coming into the account than 
leaving it. I have noted that these accounts do show a good level of income coming into 
them compared to the fairly modest amount of extra credit that was being offered by 
NewDay in 2013.
And in thinking about what these statements show, I have considered that the credit report 
information that has been submitted to me suggests that the accounts were being managed 
well in other respects at that time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to make me 
think that NewDay were on notice to make more searching enquiries about Mrs M before 
providing her with credit. And I have seen insufficient evidence to think that more 
thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it provided 
Mrs M was unreasonable in 2013. 
I know that Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because she has put 
time and energy into her complaint. I want Mrs M to know that we consider all cases on their 
own particular merits and I want Mrs M to know that I considered all the submissions made 
in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 5 July 2023. NewDay have acknowledged receiving the decision 
and said they accept my provisional findings. Mrs M has not acknowledged receiving the 
decision, made any further submission or made a request for a time extension to do so. I 
think that Mrs M has had sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if she had 
wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mrs Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman