DRN-4100831
The complaint
Mr C complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd (eBay) didnt update his bank account details 
when he requested a change.
What happened
Mr C says he updated his payments details on 09 February 2022. On 22 February 2022 Mr 
C says he sold a mobile phone on eBay marketplace, but the payment was sent to his old 
bank account. As the account the money was sent to was overdrawn, Mr C says he has no 
access to the money. So, Mr C logged a complaint with eBay and asked it to reimburse him 
with the value of the mobile phone. 
eBay looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. So, Mr C brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that there was no evidence that Mr C tried to change his account before the 
money was paid to his bank on the 22 February 2022. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. He said hed provided his internet browsing 
history that shows he visited the eBay payments page on 09 February 2022. He went on to 
provide screen shots from 28 February 2022 that he says evidence the issues he faced at 
the time when trying to update his payment details through eBays website.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. So, the complaints been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Its clear from Mr Cs submissions that he feels very strongly about his complaint and Im 
sorry to hear that he is suffering from financial difficulties. 
I want to clarify that I've considered Ms Cs detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
eBay have told our service that they have no record of Mr C attempting to change his 
payment details until May 2022, sometime after he sold the mobile phone. Ive reviewed the 
information Mr C has provided and Im not persuaded it shows me that he did make a 
change before this or on 09 February 2022. The screenshots of Mr Cs internet history show 
he visited eBays payment page, but it doesnt specify what for and it couldve been for 
multiple different reasons. Theres also no confirmation of Mr C having completed a payment 
switch on that date in this information.
Mr C has also provided screenshots of him attempting another payment switch on the 28 
February 2022, but again this information doesnt show me the switch was confirmed, or that 
there was any error when he attempted it. Mr C says he provided this information to recreate 
the issue he says he had on 09 February 2022. Even if I were to be convinced this 
information does show an issue with Mr C switching his bank account, it still doesnt 
evidence Mr C tried before he sold the mobile phone.
Its worth noting that although Mr C has complained his money was sent to the wrong 
account, he has had the benefit of the funds. Although the money may have gone to an 
account where he owes money to a bank, its still gone to an account Mr C owns. 
In summary, eBay made the payment correctly based on the bank details it had. The only 
information Mr C has supplied to show he contacted eBay was after the payment was made. 
So, I dont find eBay made any mistake or treated Mr C unfairly when it sent the payment to 
the bank account linked to Mr Cs eBay account.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman