DRN-2971201
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr W and the estate of Mrs W. For simplicity, I will refer to the 
consumers as Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage in 1988 and a 
further advance in 2003.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1998. Ill say more about that in the findings. 
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 2003. They paid a monthly amount of £44.97 for the 
policy. A successful claim would have paid out £813.79 per month for up to 12 months at a 
time if Mr or Mrs W were unable to work through accident, sickness or if they were made 
redundant. The benefit would have been split equally between Mr and Mrs W. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence for me to consider, I need 
to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I 
do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I explain why below.
the 1988 sale 
In this case Nationwide has told us that this policy was taken out in February 1998  and that 
it was cancelled in May 1998. Based on the evidence Ive seen Nationwide has returned all 
the premiums Mr and Mrs W paid for that policy. So, it does not seem that Mr and Mrs W 
have suffered any loss as a result of taking out this policy. And were I to uphold the 
complaint about this sale, the redress I would award is the one the business has already 
made. So, I consider that the complaint about this policy has already been resolved. 
the 2003 sale 
To get the PPI, Mr and Mrs W had to complete an application for it. And that application was 
separate to the application for the further advance. Had they not wanted the policy Mr and 
Mrs W could have not completed the PPI application. So, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs W 
chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
The sale was non-advised, so Nationwide didnt have to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ws needs. Nationwide did have to provide information to Mr and Mrs W that was 
enough to help them make an informed choice about whether it was right for them. 
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve still bought the policy anyway if 
better information was given. I say this because:
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W told us about their circumstances when they took 
out the PPI. From this I think they were eligible for the cover the policy offered. And I 
dont think they were particularly affected by any of the exclusions or limitations in the 
terms. Except that it appears Mrs W had pre-existing medical conditions at the time 
of the sale. As such the accident and sickness cover for Mrs W would not have 
covered her had she needed to claim for a pre-existing condition, most likely. 
Nationwide has been aware of that and so it refunded that portion of the premium for 
this policy that paid for that part of her cover. As the policy was severable at the point 
of sale, this seems like a fair way to resolve that aspect of the complaint.  
Apart from that issue, I think Mr and Mrs W could have found the policy useful. I say 
this because Mr and Mrs W had little in the way of cover if either of them couldnt 
work through ill health or if they lost their jobs. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any other means they may have had and would have covered their 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months in the event of long term ill health, or if they 
lost their jobs. So, considering all of the above and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think theyd have 
thought the policy offered some potentially useful cover. 
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide may 
have done wrong, apart from the accident and sickness cover for Mrs W which Nationwide 
has made a redress payment. 
So, I do not think that Nationwide has to do anything further to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about the high levels of commission and profit share 
paid in this case. I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
and Mrs W because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr and Mrs W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs W paid for their PPI policy - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So, I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances. As 
Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
In disagreeing with the adjudicators assessment of the case, it was said that Nationwide 
should pay something further in respect of the delays in dealing with the complaint. I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case, but Ive seen insufficient evidence that 
Nationwide is responsible for delays in excess of those normally encountered in bringing a 
complaint to this stage of the proceedings.
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman