DRN-2080315
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled her claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K was burgled and a significant amount of jewellery was stolen. When Miss K made an 
insurance claim, UKI valued the items and offered to replace the stolen jewellery or to pay a 
cash settlement, but it would be a smaller amount than the jewellery had been valued at. 
However, Miss K said that she wanted a cash settlement but for the full value of the 
jewellery.
When Miss K complained, UKI said that the claim was settled in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which meant that a cash settlement would be at a discounted rate.
Miss K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
UKI had acted fairly and reasonably and that the terms and conditions clearly explained how 
it would settle claims.
As Miss K did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of settling this claim, UKI valued the jewellery at just under £10,000. This was based 
on the description of the jewellery provided by Miss K. Following this, UKI identified that the 
majority of the jewellery could be replaced but, for the items that couldnt be replaced, it 
offered the full cash price for them. UKI also said that it could settle the claim through a cash 
settlement, which was just under £6,000. This took into account the discounted rate that it 
would have cost UKI to replace the items and the full cash price of the items that couldnt be 
replaced.
Ive looked at UKIs policy wording, which said:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
 replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have cost 
to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
So, I think that UKI clearly explained how it would settle claims and that how it proposed to 
settle Miss Ks claim was in line with this.
Im aware that Miss K has said that a lot of the jewellery was gifts and had great sentimental 
value to her, so could never be replaced. She also thought that there were more useful and 
important items than jewellery for her to buy, which is why she wanted a cash settlement. 
Although I accept Miss Ks position, UKIs wording on cash settlements isnt unusual and it 
acted in line with its policy terms and conditions. So, I cant reasonably ask UKI to pay more 
than it would have paid its own suppliers because she chose a cash settlement. 
Im aware that Miss K has said that she thinks this particular wording in the policy should 
have been drawn to her attention. But, as Ive already said, I dont think this wording is 
unusual and this is a common way for insurers to settle claims. So, I cant see that there was 
any specific reason to draw it to her attention. However, if she thinks that she was mis-sold 
the policy, she would need to raise a separate complaint about this with the business that 
sold her the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that UKI made a fair and reasonable offer to 
Miss K to settle the claim and that this was based on an appropriate assessment of the value 
of the jewellery and the amount that it would have cost UKI to replace the items. It therefore 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman