DRN-1702561
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc has defaulted a debt which they say they 
didnt know they had to pay back.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B said theyd switched their account from Santander due to poor service. They 
said when they did that, their existing arranged overdraft became an unarranged overdraft, 
which they werent told about. They said there was no agreement in place to repay, and they 
said Santander hadnt written to warn them about any need to repay. They were surprised 
and concerned to find the account had defaulted. They said they wanted the default 
removed from their credit records. 
Mr and Mrs B said Santander had contacted them, but they refused to discuss the debt due 
to an outstanding complaint. Santander said that they had been told on that call, in early July 
2019, that their account was in collections and heading for default, and theyd acknowledged 
this. It also said that it wrote, rang, and sent text messages. And it sent letters in mid-July 
warning of impending default. And it said theyd known the account was in arrears since the 
account was switched out in January 2019.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt remove any default 
markers.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Santander had 
done enough to try to get in touch with Mr and Mrs B, to ask them to make payments. 
Mr B wrote again. He said that Mrs B had explained to us that she has a mental illness. She 
may have received but immediately thrown away any letters sent by Santander. He said this 
should be taken into account, and asked us to negotiate with Santander. Our investigator 
said he had asked about this, and Santander wanted this to be resolved by an ombudsman. 
The case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs B has been so unwell. I hope things are now improving for her. 
I know Mr B said he didnt receive any letters warning him before default action was taken. I 
do think they were sent. Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about Mrs B possibly 
destroying letters that came to the house. But Santander has said it had spoken to Mr B, and 
told him the account was heading for default. Its also shown us that it made numerous 
phone calls and sent text messages. The number it sent text messages to is the same as the 
number Mr B gave us to contact him on, for this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B knew they owed Santander money. And I think that Santander did enough to 
try to tell Mr and Mrs B that they needed to pay this debt back, and to warn them of the 
consequences if they didnt. For those reasons, I dont think Santander has to remove the 
default markers now. 
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman