DRN-1516082
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Nat West Bank Plc (Nat West) added him as a joint account 
holder to an account, instead of adding him as a third party. Mr D has also complained that 
Nat West later declined a credit card application he made and gave him conflicting 
information about why it was declined. 
What happened
Sometime after March 1994, Mr D was added as a joint account holder to an account ending 
875. Mr D became aware in mid-2019 he was a joint account holder, and not a third party to 
the account. 
In April 2019, Mr D made an application for a credit card with Nat West and this was 
declined.
Mr D complained to Nat West and it provided a final response on 25 July 2019.
Nat West said it was unable to provide records to show why it added Mr D as a joint account 
holder, and not a third party to the account. Nat West accepts it got this wrong and has since 
corrected the account to include Mr D as a third party. In the response, Nat West accepted it 
was more likely than not it had added Mr D as a joint account holder in error, when it 
shouldve added him as a third party to an account. 
Mr D complained that he had to call Nat West about 15 times about his credit card 
application, and he was told the application had been declined because there was an 
internal marker on his current account relating to a business account he may have been 
connected to. Mr D says an adviser at Nat West told him the internal marker would be 
removed, and that when he reapplied, the application would be accepted. Mr D says the 
application was continually declined.
In its final response, Nat West accepted it had applied an incorrect internal marker to Mr Ds 
account relating to an unrelated business account. It confirmed this had now been removed 
and that the internal marker wasnt the reason the credit card application was declined. Nat 
West apologised for the disappointing level of customer service Mr D had received from its 
staff. And it said it was reviewing its procedures with a view to ensuring such levels arent 
duplicated.
Nat West confirmed it had credited Mr Ds account with the sum of £160 as compensation 
for the level of service it provided. This included a payment of £60 to compensate Mr D for 
the time he spent on the telephone with Nat West staff.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided and agreed Nat West provided a poor 
service to Mr D. The investigator said it was most likely Nat West added Mr D as a joint 
account holder in error. 
The investigator accepted Nat West told Mr D his credit card was declined because of an 
internal marker and that this was an error by Nat West. And the investigator said the credit 
reference agency Nat West used made it aware of a default against Mr D, and this is more 
likely the reason why the credit card had been declined. 
The investigator agreed with Mr D that the level of service Nat West provided was 
unreasonable but thought Nat West had taken reasonable steps to put things right. And that 
its payment of £160 to reflect the impact on Mr D was a fair and reasonable remedy.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators views and asked for an ombudsman final decision. 
Mr D believes that Nat West should pay him £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him, and it hadnt considered that he suffers from depression.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider I dont need to request further evidence in respect of Nat West adding Mr D to an 
account as a joint account holder, instead of a third party. I have enough evidence to decide 
on this aspect of the complaint. Nat West confirms it doesnt hold any relevant records in this 
regard any way, but accepts it made an error. Therefore, it is reasonable and pragmatic for 
me to accept it was an error. And that Nat West has now put this right by removing Mr D as 
a joint account holder, and correctly adding him as a third party to the account.
In respect of the declined credit card application, I have seen documents Nat West has 
provided that indicate Mr Ds credit card application wouldve been declined regardless of 
any internal marker relating to a business account Mr D wasnt a party to. I can see that 
these show Mr D shouldve been told by Nat West staff his credit card would be declined. I 
havent seen anything from Nat West that persuades me the card was declined because of 
any connection to another account, whether that be the joint account, or the business 
account it referred to in its final response. The information Nat West gave Mr D that his card 
would be accepted when an internal marker was removed was incorrect, and Nat West 
accepts this is the case.
Although it is not obliged to do so, Nat West has provided a specific reason why the credit 
card application was declined. It says that the credit reference agency it used provided 
information of a default registered against Mr D. I consider this is more likely than not the 
reason why the credit card application was declined. I cant tell Nat West that it shouldve 
accepted the credit card application, as Nat West can decide to accept or decline credit 
applications based on the risk assessment it completes. This may include reviewing 
information held by credit reference agencies and reviewing existing account management. 
In this case Nat West relied on information it received from the credit reference agency it 
used and decided it should decline the application.
Nat West has been unable to provide recordings of all the telephone calls Mr D says he 
made after his credit card application was declined. Nat West says that this is most likely 
because some of the calls were made direct to the local branch, and these are not recorded. 
However, having read the final response letter Nat West sent Mr D, Nat West accepts that 
he made quite a few telephone calls to try and understand why the card had been declined. I 
think, during these calls, it is more likely than not that staff at Nat West provided Mr D with 
incorrect information. I say this because if Mr D had been told his application would be 
declined, and that it would continue to be declined, he most likely wouldnt have spent 
significant time calling Nat West for updates on whether it had been accepted.Nat West has already accepted it could have provided better communication in respect of 
the credit card application and that Mr D had to make several telephone calls that could have 
been avoided.
Nat West dealt with the complaints Mr D made in its response of 25 July 2019, and it paid 
him the sum of £160 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. £60 of this was for the 
time Mr D spent on the telephone to Nat West. 
Mr D says that he doesnt believe Nat West considered he suffers from depression. Whilst I 
empathise with Mr D in this regard, Im satisfied that a payment of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and a payment of £60 for the time he spent on the telephone is a 
reasonable one. It may be that Nat West would have considered a different level of remedy if 
Mr D had explained the inconvenience he suffered was increased because of his 
depression. But I havent seen anything that persuades me Mr D told Nat West that the 
impact on him was greater because of his depression.
My final decision
To settle the complaint Nat West Bank Plc paid Mr B £100 compensation and reimbursed 
him £60 to reflect the time he spent on calls. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, 
Im not going to ask Nat West Bank Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman