DRN-2236254
complaint
Mr and Mrs F say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 1999 at around the same time as taking a mortgage. The 
policy provided cover on Mr F for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost £50.49 a month and for a successful claim offered to pay 
£850 a month for up to 12 months to help Mr and Mrs F with mortgage related costs.
Mr F was employed at the time as a national account manager and had been there 11 years. 
Hes told us he was entitled to less than six but at least three months full sick pay and less 
than six but at least three months full pay for redundancy. From what he has told us, at the 
time of the sale Mr F was in good health and hadnt had any health issues.
Mrs F has told us she was employed, had been there a year and was entitled to no more 
than statutory pay for sickness or redundancy. According to HSBCs mortgage review notes, 
which Mr and Mrs F signed at the time of the sale, Mrs F wasnt in paid employment  and 
no work income from Mrs F was taken into account on the mortgage application form. 
Mr and Mrs F have said that, aside from their work pay and benefits, they didnt have any 
other means, like savings or insurance, with which to pay the mortgage if they couldnt work. 
The mortgage review notes say they had joint savings of £3000 and income protection for 
Mr F that would cover a small part of his income if he couldnt work for more than a year. 
HSBC has told us the PPI was free for the first six months and was cancelled in 2000. It has 
sent evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage ended before 2008 and has told us it 
ended in 2006 at the latest. Mr and Mrs Fs representative has made lengthy and substantial 
representations on their behalf. Ill not restate them all here, but I have read and considered 
them all carefully. In summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have 
taken the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means HSBC should have told Mr and Mrs F 
about the poor value;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs F and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
This sale took place in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded, at the latest, in 2006. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like HSBC at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  the Office of the Banking Ombudsman in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If HSBC gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take the policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Fs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs F and 
HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Mr and Mrs F say they bought the PPI by post. HSBC says it sold the PPI at a meeting. The 
mortgage review notes Mr and Mrs F signed say they had a mortgage interview with HSBC. 
So, based on what I have, I think the PPI was sold as a result of a discussion between 
Mr and Mrs F and HSBC, most likely at a meeting.
HSBC had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs F have said they had no 
interest in PPI and say it was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. But 
they signed a Mortgage Repayment Protector application to apply for the PPI, separately 
from signing for the mortgage. Mr Fs details alone were entered on the application  from 
what the form said, this meant cover was to be on Mr F alone rather than on Mr and Mrs F 
jointly. Mr and Mrs F also signed a separate direct debit to pay for the PPI. The separate 
application and separate direct debit make me think it likely Mr and Mrs F were aware the 
PPI was separate from the mortgage. 
The PPI application asked: Do you want to arrange cover? and had equally noticeable tick 
boxes to answer either yes or no. Ive seen nothing on the application form or the papers 
from the time to suggest that Mr and Mrs F had to say yes to the cover or had to sign for it if 
they didnt want it. On Mr and Mrs Fs form, the yes box was ticked. I think the tick in the 
box is likely to reflect the outcome of the discussion HSBC had with Mr and Mrs F before the 
form was printed for them to sign. Also, I think it likely Mr and Mrs F wouldve known the no 
box should be ticked instead if they didnt want the cover. And nothing theyve said makes 
me think they were pressured into making their choice.
Mr and Mrs F have said they had no interest in the PPI and say it was just included as part 
of the package with their mortgage. Ive considered this carefully. But taking everything into 
account, and with all Ive said above in mind, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs F knew the 
PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did HSBC provide advice?
HSBC says it gave advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs F havent said advice wasnt given. 
Also the PPI was included in HSBCs list of the products it was recommending Mr and Mrs F. 
With all this in mind, Im persuaded HSBC gave advice. This means HSBC had to advise 
Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed at the time, the documentary evidence 
suggests HSBC took some steps to establish whether the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs F. HSBC had some information about Mr and Mrs Fs 
financial circumstances from their mortgage application. Also a mortgage review was 
completed to try and establish their circumstances and needs  by asking each one of them 
questions about their current state of health, employment status, salary, whether their work 
was UK based, their savings, other insurances and existing work sick pay. 
But I dont think HSBC did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F and 
establish whether Mr F was caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the policy didnt fully meet Mr and Mrs Fs needs. For example, I cant see that 
HSBC asked Mr F about any health issues hed had treatment for in the previous year.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done 
to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs F given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately suitable 
for them. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  even allowing for the work sickness and 
redundancy pay Mr F has said he was entitled to, it seems likely Mr and Mrs F would 
suffer a loss of income were Mr F unable to work for a prolonged period. Also Mr F was 
the main wage earner and the only one recorded in the mortgage application as being in 
paid work  and Mr and Mrs F have also said they were financially stretched. With all this 
in mind, it also seems likely that a fall in his income couldve put Mr and Mrs Fs finances 
under stain. The policy benefit would help Mr and Mrs F manage the consequences of 
that fall  and at what could be a difficult time were Mr F unemployed or too sick to work. 
-Although Mr and Mrs F say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. Also, it seems HSBC took 
note of Mr and Mrs Fs income and outgoings as part of the mortgage review. 
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs F. There 
was nothing about Mr Fs employment or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for 
Mr and Mrs F to claim. And they havent told us of Mr F having had any existing medical 
conditions or treatment that couldve affected their ability to claim. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
- While it would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, the policy 
still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, and bearing in mind both 
the fact the policy provided protection for the mortgage payments relating to their house 
and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs F have been unable to make 
payments on loans secured against their home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is, the policy would protect their payments if Mr F were 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have taken the 
policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
Also, the application form they signed to take the cover said that it was insurance that 
protects your monthly mortgage repayments for up to twelve months in the event of 
unemployment, accident or sickness. It also told Mr and Mrs F to enter only Mr Fs details if the cover wasnt to be joint  and only Mr Fs details were entered. It also set out the monthly 
benefit amount alongside the monthly mortgage payment amount.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions and limitations before Mr and Mrs F 
agreed to take the policy. Overall, having considered the parties representations about what 
happened, while Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F, 
Im not persuaded HSBC did enough to present information about the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC 
gave Mr and Mrs F all the information they needed about the policy to make an informed 
decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Fs. 
Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court 
would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F have suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found HSBC didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs F. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not they would have 
still taken the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs F 
have suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC had 
explained things properly, Mr and Mrs F wouldve acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event.Mr and Mrs F say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised them there was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if Mr F were unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what they thought 
they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs F were given about the benefit 
was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs F knew they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt appear HSBC told them the exact premium at the point they 
applied for the policy. Having said that, I dont think it likely Mr and Mrs F wouldve taken the 
PPI without some idea of the approximate cost. Overall, with the purpose of the insurance 
and the benefit it could provide in mind, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F, given their 
circumstances, would have found the cost unacceptable if they had been given the exact 
figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Also, bearing in mind what was said on the application form they signed, and the discussions 
HSBC noted about the insurance Mr F had to cover him if he were off work for more than a 
year, Im satisfied its likely Mr and Mrs F were aware that benefit payments from the PPI 
were designed to last up to 12 months rather than for the rest of the mortgage term. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to serious or continuing health issues Mr F knowingly 
suffered at the policy start and excluded claims occurring within 12 months of the policy 
start as a result of any health issue for which Mr F had treatment or advice in the 12 
months before the policy start; and 
The policy limited, and in some situations excluded, unemployment cover if Mr F wasnt 
a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking it. But, the evidence about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr F was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to 
Mr and Mrs F should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr F wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he 
hadnt had any health issues and was in good health and in permanent employment. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs F still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence 
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr F needed to be stopped from working in his employment (of at 
least 16 hours per week). I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have 
expected to make a claim. It seems unlikely he wouldve thought hed be able to make a 
successful claim if he were not stopped from doing that. 
Also, I bear in mind the policy would pay benefits for longer than Mr F wouldve received full 
sick pay  and his redundancy entitlement was also worth less than 12 months pay. The PPI 
benefit couldve helped Mr and Mrs F reduce their outgoings, helping ensure their home 
wasnt put at risk and potentially keeping their savings available for other uses at what could 
be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr F were unemployed or too sick to work.
 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken the policy. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them 
manage the consequences if Mr F were made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs F would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position they 
found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant failings not occurred. Mr and Mrs F believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs F think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC failed 
to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F, in the way it did, 
was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court might take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs F and about 
the remedy a court might award if it were to find HSBC had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman