DRN-3747658
The complaint
Mrs H complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proper affordability checks before it lent to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve discovered 
she couldnt afford to repay these loans.
What happened
Mrs H was advanced 8 home collected loans between December 2013 and November 2018.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
2 £400.00 03/12/2013 14/11/2014 50 £14.00
3 £500.00 07/11/2014 30/10/2015 50 £17.50
4 £100.00 15/05/2015 15/05/2015 34 £5.00
5 £500.00 30/10/2015 19/10/2016 52 £17.50
6 £500.00 19/10/2016 17/10/2017 52 £17.50
7 £500.00 17/10/2017 28/09/2018 52 £17.50
8 £500.00 30/11/2018 06/12/2019 52 £17.50
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped
Mrs Hs commitment to Morses would be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 
overlapped her commitment to Morses was £31.50 per week.
Following Mrs Hs complaint Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried
out affordability checks before these loans were advanced and based on the information it
received it was reasonable to lend.
Mrs Hs representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator. He concluded it was reasonable for loans 1
 4 to have been advanced. So, he didnt uphold the complaint about this lending. However,
he thought loans 5 - 8 shouldnt have been granted because the lending pattern was now
harmful for Mrs H.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in summary, Morses said:
These loans were repaid without any obvious hardship.
Loans 5  8 were all for the same value and therefore her weekly commitment
remained the same.
Mrs H had a good repayment history.
The affordability checks showed loans 5  8 to be affordable for Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt tell Morses about any financial difficulties she may have been
experiencing.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint in part about loans 6  8 only. A copy of my provisional findings follows 
this in italics and smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Mrs H (or her representative) appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators
findings in relation to loans 1  4. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer
think that I need to make a finding about it. But for completeness I dont disagree with the
adjudicators assessment that it wasnt unfair of Morses to have provided these loans. But I
have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between
Morses and Mrs H.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
5 - 8.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs H could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mrs Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs H. These factors include:
Mrs H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs H.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs H was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Loans 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view the loan was harmful for Mrs H
because it was now unsustainable for Morses to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded these loans were now harmful to Mrs H.
I accept, that Mrs H had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 22 months 
and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 52 weeks. This, in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive and at times overlapped, which could show that Mrs H had a continued need for
credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that Mrs Hs borrowing wasnt increasing, and the loans were
due to be repaid over a longer period of time, longer than say a payday loan. Although, I do
accept that Mrs Hs commitments remained flat, I dont think Mrs Hs indebtedness seemed
to be increasing unsustainably.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems when Mrs H had settled previous
loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Mrs H and I so I am intending to conclude the loans werent likely
to be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that
doesnt mean Morse did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Mrs H, and around this
time her income was declared at £170 per week. Her weekly expenditure was declared as
£80 which resulted in a disposable income of £90 per week. This may have then led Morses
to believe that Mrs H had sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan repayment.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Mrs H may have been reliant on
this credit and her indebtedness was potentially extending for another year. These factors
ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Mrs Hs financial
position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs H declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mrs H could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Hs actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Mrs Hs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mrs Hs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mrs H couldnt afford the loan.
However, Mrs Hs representative hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with either her
credit file or her bank statement. So, without any further information from Mrs H about herother living costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it
made better checks.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Mrs H. As this is
the case, Im intending to not uphold Mrs Hs complaint about loan 5.
Loans 6  8
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mrs H for details of her income and
expenditure. For loan 6, Mrs H declared she an income of £125 per week with outgoings of
£65 per week. Leaving £60 to afford the repayment towards loan 6 of £17.50. Similar checks
were carried out for loans 7 and 8.
Based solely on Mrs Hs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to
making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs H had
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew
about Mrs Hs finances and the lending. For example, Mrs H returning for further borrowing
on the same day a previous loan had been repaid. By now and continuing on from loan 5, it
wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the
information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest carried out further checks in
this case.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mrs H, this is because
Ive also considered whether the lending was sustainable for her.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern
of Morses lending history with Mrs H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs H was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs H had taken out six loans in 34 months. So Morses ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mrs H was having to borrow further to cover a longterm shortfall in 
her living costs.
From her first loan, Mrs H was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous
loan was repaid. For example, loan 5 was taken out on the same day that loan 3 was
repaid. While, loan 6 was taken out on the same day that loan 5 was repaid. To me, this is a 
sign that Mrs H was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a 
short-term need.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Hs weekly commitments generally
remained the same. There was no time when her commitment decreased. Which may have 
given Morses confidence that Mrs H was no longer reliant on these loans.
However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, and her
indebtedness wasnt decreasing ought to have led it to realise these loans werent
sustainable anymore.
Mrs H wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed Morses. Loan 8 was taken 
out nearly five years after Mrs Hs first loan and was to be repaid over another 52 weeks. Her 
final loan was also the same value as most other loans she had taken. Mrs H had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs H lost out when Morses provided loans 6, 7 and 8 because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs H borrowed was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about loans 6 - 8.
Response to the provsional decision
Both Mrs H and Morses were asked to provide any further information, comment, or 
evidence for consideration as soon as possible but in any event no later than by
12 October 2022. 
Morses responded, agreeing with the proposed outcome.
Neither Mrs H or her representative acknowledged or commented on the proposed 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses has accepted the outcome I reached in the provisional decision and as no further 
information or comments have been provided by either Mrs H or her representative, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I previously made. 
So, for the reasons outlined in the provisional decision, I still think Morses shouldnt have 
provided Mrs H with loans 6  8 and Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to 
put things right for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 6 - 8, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses shouldnt have provided Mrs H with loans 6 - 8.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs H the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Hs borrowing for loans 6 - 8 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman