Complaint
Mrs O says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs O took out with a charge card in 1991. Its been 
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs O that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs O says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mrs Os application form for the charge card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mrs O wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
If Mrs O didnt want the PPI, I think she couldve left the section blank. So I think Allianz did 
make it clear to her that she had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs O chose to take it, 
knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Allianz gave Mrs O any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means Allianz didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for Mrs O. But it did have to make sure she got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And shes told us 
she didnt have any savings or other means she couldve used to make her repayments if 
she wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
DRN-1055224looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mrs O off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman