DRN-3788297
The complaint
Mr T complains that Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) provided him with a poor 
service when advising him on a pension transfer from his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS). He also complains that it failed to tell him what the advice would cost. And failed to 
tell him the full amount of tax-free cash he could take.
What happened
I understand that in March 2021 Mr T approached Grove for advice on transferring his 
Defined Benefit (DB) pension benefits from his former employers OPS after his Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA) from another business had recommended it. 
Grove said it sent Mr T the Client Agreement on 4 March 2021. It said this included details of 
the fee charging structure applicable to all clients. And that the covering letter had brought 
this to Mr Ts attention.
Grove said it called Mr T on 4 March 2021. It said that during this initial call it discussed with 
Mr T the timescales and the importance of reading the information sent to him. It said that Mr 
T told it that he was still sorting out the transfer values, and that he was unsure if he would 
continue or not. 
Grove said it emailed triage information to Mr T on 5 March 2021. It said this included asking 
for his consent to continue.
Grove said that on 5 March 2021, the OPS contacted it to tell it Mr T was still an active 
member of the scheme. It said it wouldnt deal with clients who were active. And that it 
wouldnt recommend they opted out.
On 19 March 2021, Grove said Mr Ts IFA told it Mr T had left the OPS in March 2021. And 
that he was going to ask for a free of charge non-guaranteed transfer value. But that he 
would get a guaranteed transfer value if he wanted to proceed with the transfer.
Grove sent two triage chaser emails to Mr T on 19 March 2021 and 27 March 2021. It also 
sent a triage chaser letter to Mr T on 6 April 2021. This included a form which offered the 
following options:
1. I would like to proceed with my enquiry, or
2. I would like to receive some more educational material, or
3. I have changed my mind and do not want to go ahead with my enquiry.
Mr T chose option 1 and signed the form on 8 April 2021. Grove said it received this on 9 
April 2021.
The OPS provided a new transfer value of £1,036,532.63, guaranteed to 12 July 2021, on 13 
April 2021. Grove said it left a voicemail the same day with Mr T to ask him if he wanted to 
proceed. 
Grove said that it spoke to Mr T on 11 May 2021. And that it conducted a fact find 
conversation on 13 May 2021. 
Grove said it told Mr T it was preparing his Abridged Advice report on 20 May 2021. And that 
it issued that report to him on 10 June 2021. 
Grove said it contacted Mr Ts OPS on 14 June 2021 to ask it if could secure Mr Ts transfer 
value in case the guarantee date should be missed. It said Mr T returned the Abridged 
Advice report form on 16 June 2021. It said the fee (£13,682.66) for the service it had 
provided had been stated on the form.
Mr T signed the form on 15 June 2021, confirming he wanted to proceed to full advice. The 
confirmation stated:
Full advice in respect of this scheme will cost me £13,682.66 based on the current transfer 
value of £1,036,532,63  this is equivalent to around 6 months income from my current 
scheme. This fee is subject to change should the transfer value change.
On 8 July 2021, Grove emailed Mr T to tell him that his OPS had told it that in order to keep 
the guarantee date secured, they needed the receiving scheme forms to follow shortly after. 
It asked Mr T to complete the forms it had attached as soon as possible.
Also on 8 July 2021, Mr Ts IFA emailed Grove to ask it to confirm its initial fee. He said it 
wasnt on any of the paperwork. And that Mr T wouldnt sign until the fee was confirmed. 
Grove replied the same day. It said the initial fee was £13,682.66. It said it couldnt write that 
amount on the application forms as the value could potentially expire and then change, 
which would affect the initial fee. Grove also confirmed the tiered charging structure the fee 
was based on. This was: 1.8% on the first £250,000, 1.2% on the next £750,000, 0.5% 
above £1,000,000. It said that if the transfer value did change, the fee would be based on 
that charging structure.
Mr Ts IFA emailed Grove on 8 July 2021 to tell it that Mr T wouldnt sign the form with no fee 
attached. So said they would write it in. 
Grove said the forms were returned on 9 July 2021. It said that Mr T had changed the 
targeted cash sum on the form. It said it confirmed that the tax-free cash amount couldnt be 
changed as there was no objective. Also on 9 July 2021, Grove said that Mr Ts IFA asked it 
to amend the tax-free cash sum, and that he would write an addendum Suitability Report. It 
said this wouldnt be allowable. 
On 13 July 2021, Grove said it completed its compliance checks. And on 21 July 2021 it sent 
the Suitability Report to Mr T. Mr Ts chosen provider confirmed it had received the 
transferred funds on 29 July 2021. 
Mr T complained to Grove on 1 September 2021. He felt hed received unprofessional 
service which had led to stress and anxiety throughout the process. He made the following 
complaint points:
- Thered been no sense of urgency from Grove, despite the three-month deadline on 
the transfer value. 
- Although hed had an initial call with Grove on 12 May 2021, and despite several 
phone calls, he didnt know the outcome until he got the 15 June 2021 letter 
confirming what he had to do if he wanted to proceed. - The application form hadnt included Groves fees. He felt this evidenced a lack of 
transparency.
- He also felt hed not received the Suitability Report until after the transfer value 
deadline.
- Mr T also said hed spoken to eight different people at Grove. He felt this had led to 
miscommunication, duplication and confusion. 
Grove issued its final response to the complaint on 9 September 2021. It didnt uphold it. It 
didnt agree that thered been no sense of urgency to meet the guaranteed date of 12 July 
2021. It said that when it had looked like the guarantee date wouldnt be met, itd taken 
action to ensure this didnt happen. Grove also said that transfers did take time. 
Grove didnt agree that it hadnt been clear about the tax-free cash sum. It said that during 
the fact-finding conversation itd had with Mr T on 13 May 2021, hed said he needed 
£180,000 to pay off the outstanding mortgage, not £190,000. And that although it had asked 
him if there were any other capital requirements, hed told it there werent. Grove said that 
as Mr Ts objective had been to raise a specific amount, all its analysis and calculations had 
been completed to best achieve his target figure. It also said Mr T had repeated this 
objective during the recommendation call on 29 June 2021. And that details of that call had 
been reflected in the Suitability Report. It said that as there was no need to access more 
than the amount needed to clear the mortgage, it wouldnt have advised Mr T to access 
more. Grove said Mr T had accepted the recommendation detailed in the Suitability Report 
when he completed the authority to proceed.
Grove acknowledged that it had issued a form without the fee entered. It said the form 
shouldve had the fees entered onto it before it had been sent to Mr T. But it didnt feel this 
showed: a lack of transparency. It said the fee had been clearly stated in the Abridged 
Advice report. It also felt that Mr Ts IFA had known the fee structure.
Grove also acknowledged that Mr T had received an incorrectly addressed return envelope 
and felt that an incorrect email address had been used. It said that although different teams 
were involved at different stages of the process, the system it used allowed it to record all 
progress, and was accessible by all the different people involved. It also said that it had used 
one of the email addresses Mr T had included on the initial contact form. And that Mr T 
hadnt asked them to only use the other one. Grove said that the incorrectly addressed 
return envelope would still have reached them as there was a redirection of post in place 
due to their office move.
Mr T was unhappy with Groves response, so brought his complaint to this service. 
Alongside the complaint points hed already raised with Grove, he also alleged that his IFAs 
business had recorded Grove lying and telling them misinformation. And that he didnt know 
the amount of the fee that would be payable.
When these complaint points were raised with Grove by this service, it questioned why 
theyd not been raised previously. And said that it hadnt been able to address them directly 
with Mr T. It refuted both points. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Grove 
hadnt caused any avoidable delays. And felt that as Mr T had signed a fee agreement on 15 
June 2021, he knew how much hed be paying. He also felt that Grove hadnt implied that 
tax-free cash would be limited to £190,000.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. He felt his IFAs business had key information. And said theyd stopped using Grove due to the poor service that he felt they and he had 
received. 
Our investigator asked Mr T to provide any additional evidence his IFA had for his 
consideration. But nothing further has been provided. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for 
Mr T. Ill explain the reasons for it. 
I first considered the two complaint points that Grove said hadnt been raised with them 
before this service brought them to its attention. These were:
- The allegation that Mr Ts IFAs business had recorded Grove lying and telling them 
misinformation. 
- That Mr T didnt know the amount of the fee that would be payable.
Ill also consider here Mr Ts complaint that the application form hadnt included Groves 
fees. He felt this evidenced a lack of transparency.
Grove refuted both points. It told this service that it had called Mr Ts IFA when hed 
originally complained to get his view. It said the IFA had said at that time that hed no 
concerns about referring business to Grove. And that he had no concerns or worries about 
the service it provided. 
Grove also evidenced that it had contacted the Chief Compliance Officer at the IFAs 
business. And that hed told it that the IFA had never said that Grove lied to him. 
I acknowledge that Mr T considers that his IFAs business had key information which he felt 
our investigator hadnt had access to. And that he also said that that business had stopped 
using Grove due to the poor service that they and he had received. 
But, having reviewed the email exchange from October 2021 between Grove and Mr Ts 
IFAs business, and noting that Mr T hasnt provided any further evidence from his IFAs 
business, Im not persuaded that Mr Ts IFAs business recorded Grove lying to them or 
giving incorrect information. And Im not persuaded that it has stopped using Grove due to 
the alleged poor service. I say this because the IFAs business confirmed that they had no 
concerns with Grove and were happy to work with it. They also confirmed that they hadnt 
recorded Grove lying. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Regarding fees, Grove said that it informed clients on the basis for fee payments and how 
they are calculated at the start of the relationship. And that it then told clients the fee that will 
be payable if they wish to proceed to full advice. At this point, the client would sign a form 
with this figure on it. It said that Mr Ts IFA was also fully aware of the fee structure. Grove 
also said that the fee section on the application form it had sent Mr T hadnt been completed. 
But that Mr T had entered the fee payable on the form, which clearly evidenced that he was 
fully aware of the amount he would have to pay in order to receive advice.From what Ive seen, Groves tiered fee structure was covered in the Client Agreement 
Grove sent Mr T on 4 March 2021. And the covering letter this was sent with brought this to 
Mr Ts attention. This showed that the standard charges would be based on the size of the 
transfer, as follows:
Up to £250,000: 3% with a minimum of £2,950
On the next £750,000 transfer value: 2%
On the balance: 1%
Examples were also given, including:
With a transfer value of £1,250,000, the charge would be £30,000 (2.4%)
However, the notes to the charges stated: If youve been introduced to us by another 
professional adviser, the charge may be less than this.
I consider that the Client Agreement and the covering letter wouldve made Mr T aware of 
the maximum fee he might be charged. In the end, Mr T was actually only charged 1.8% on 
the first £250,000, 1.2% on the next £750,000 and 0.5% on the rest. 
The actual fee he would be charged was included on the Abridged Advice report form, which 
Mr T returned on 16 June 2021. The confirmation form that Mr T signed also confirmed this 
fee amount. Grove also confirmed this fee by email on 8 July 2021.
Therefore, having considered all of the available information, Im satisfied that Mr T did know 
the amount of the fee that would be payable. And I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered whether Grove had caused any avoidable delays to the transfer process. 
In doing so, I aimed to address the following complaint points:
- No sense of urgency to get the transfer completed in time. 
- Mr T wasnt informed about the outcome until he got the 15 June 2021 letter 
confirming what he had to do if he wanted to proceed. 
- The Suitability Report was produced on 21 July 2021, which was after the initial 
transfer value deadline of 12 July 2021.
- Poor communication due to speaking to eight different people at Grove. 
I first considered the timing of the transfer. In particular, Ive looked at the steps that Grove 
took to try to ensure the transfer could proceed before the end of the guarantee period. 
Grove said that Mr Ts transfer took around the amount of time it expected it to, and how 
long it told him it would take. 
Grove said it highlighted the time the transfer might take to Mr T early on in the process. It 
also said that Mr T hadnt given it the authority to proceed until 9 April 2021. It said that it 
was still able to ensure that the original transfer value was honoured, despite the delayed 
start.
Grove also said that transfers of defined benefit pension schemes are highly complex and 
highly regulated. And that gathering information, running calculations, conducting analysis 
and preparing paperwork all take time. And that each of these steps also has to be compliance checked.
Grove initially wrote to Mr T on 4 March 2021. Grove also sent Mr T a copy of the Client 
Agreement terms at this time. It told him it had written to his OPS for information. But warned 
him that some scheme administrators were taking a very long time to respond. It advised Mr 
T that chasing them for the required information might speed things up.
Grove also told Mr T that because pensions were very complex, it would have a lot of work 
to do after itd received the requested information. It said: We aim to arrange one of our 
advisers providing you with a recommendation after a couple of months or so, but we cannot 
guarantee this.
On 5 March 2021, Grove wrote to Mr T again. It explained what would happen if he decided 
to proceed with his enquiry. It noted that there would be two further stages that were relevant 
if he did. And then went on to explain its fee Abridged Advice service. And its paid for Full 
Advice service. It told him he needed to complete a form to proceed to the next stage.
However, Grove found out on 5 March 2021, through Mr Ts OPS, that he was still an active 
member of the scheme. As it wouldnt deal with clients who were active, it couldnt take any 
further steps at this stage. But on 19 March 2021, Mr Ts IFA told it that Mr T had left the 
OPS. On the same day, Grove sent Mr T a triage chaser email to one of the two email 
addresses hed provided. 
I understand that Mr T had wanted Grove to use the other email address that hed provided. 
But Ive seen no evidence that he asked them to use a specified email address. So I cant 
fairly hold Grove responsible for using the other email address.
Grove sent a further triage chaser email to Mr T on 27 March 2021 to the same email 
address as the first. It also sent a triage chaser letter to Mr T on 6 April 2021. 
Mr T completed the form Grove had sent with the 6 April 2021 letter. He ticked the option: I 
would like to proceed with my enquiry. And signed the form on 8 April 2021. 
Im satisfied that Grove caused no delays during the period from Mr Ts first contact to 9 April 
2021, when Grove received his signed form. Ive no evidence that Grove failed to take 
reasonable steps to progress the transfer during this time. 
Next, on 13 April 2021, the OPS provided a new transfer value which was guaranteed to 12 
July 2021. Grove tried to contact Mr T the same day to ask him if he wanted to proceed. It 
also said it updated Mr T on 20 April 2021. And that it had completed an abridged calculation 
on 27 April 2021. It also said it called Mr T again on 10 May 2021 and left a message.
Ive no evidence that Grove failed to take reasonable steps to contact Mr T to progress the 
transfer between 9 April 2021 and 10 May 2021. From what Ive seen, Grove tried to keep 
Mr T updated over this period. And it also tried to progress the transfer.
Grove conducted a fact find conversation with Mr T on 13 May 2021. And then told him it 
was preparing his Abridged Advice report on 20 May 2021. It then issued that report on 10 
June 2021. Given the complexity of the advice, I dont consider that Grove took too long to 
produce this report. 
As the guarantee deadline was approaching, Grove contacted Mr Ts OPS on 14 June 2021 
to ask if it could secure the transfer value even if the guarantee date was missed. The 
following day, Mr T signed the form confirming that he wanted to proceed to full advice. Grove emailed Mr T on 8 July 2021 to tell him what his OPS needed so that the guarantee 
could be maintained. To this end, it asked Mr T to complete the forms it had attached as 
soon as possible. Mr T returned on 9 July 2021. Grove completed its compliance checks on 
13 July 2021. It then sent the Suitability Report to Mr T on 21 July 2021. I understand that Mr 
Ts chosen provider received the transferred funds on 29 July 2021.
Overall, Im satisfied that Grove took reasonable steps to progress the transfer in time. I 
consider that there were some delays to the process, but that these werent caused by 
Grove. I also consider that Grove did inform Mr T about the progress of his transfer. And that 
when it realised that the transfer deadline was approaching, it arranged for the guaranteed 
transfer value to be secured. This resulted in Mr T getting the transfer value he had expected 
to get. Therefore I dont consider that Grove did anything wrong here.
I acknowledge that the Suitability Report wasnt produced until after the original transfer 
guarantee date. But I dont consider Grove did anything wrong. I say this because Grove 
produced the Suitability Report before the transaction was completed. And because the 
steps it took allowed the transfer to go ahead on the guaranteed basis.
While I acknowledge that Mr T wasnt happy that he had to speak to eight different people at 
Grove during the transfer process, Ive not seen any evidence that this affected the progress 
of his transfer. Nor have I seen any evidence that Mr T was given incorrect or confusing 
information. Therefore I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered Mr Ts complaint that Grove didnt made it clear during the Abridged 
Advice call that itd only recommended £180,000 tax-free cash, not the maximum of around 
£259,000.   
Grove said that the fact find provided by the IFA stated: The tax-free lump sum will pay off 
my mortgage (£190k). And that the objectives went on to state: and give me the flexibility to 
invest the remainder. It said that Mr T hadnt suggested that hed wanted immediate access 
to the full tax-free cash sum from the transferred funds.
Grove also said that itd asked Mr T during the fact-finding meeting on 13 May 2021 if he had 
any other capital requirements. But that hed confirmed that he didnt. It said hed confirmed 
that his outstanding mortgage was £180,000 rather than £190,000. And that his major 
objective was to clear it. It said itd also asked him if he had any other capital requirements. 
But hed confirmed he didnt. 
Grove said that during the recommendation call on 29 June 2021, Mr T repeated his 
objective. And as hed said nothing to indicate he wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash 
amount from the pension immediately, all its calculations and analysis had been based on 
achieving Mr Ts specific cash requirement. And that it wasnt until much later that Mr Ts IFA 
asked for the cash sum to be the maximum amount. 
Grove also said that it wouldnt have advised him to access more tax-free cash without a 
specified need for the funds, or without another good reason. This was because such an 
approach would incur more investment charges and fees. 
Based on the recorded objectives, Grove said it had advised Mr T to transfer his pension 
and to access the specific cash sum hed requested. It also noted that Mr Ts remaining 
entitlement to tax-free cash remained available until hed taken the maximum permitted. 
I dont have access to the Abridged Advice call. But I do have a copy of the 10 June 2021 
Abridged Advice pension report that Grove produced for Mr T. Mr T signed the form on 15 
June 2021, confirming he wanted to proceed to full advice. The Abridged Advice report recorded Mr Ts objectives as follows:
You are planning to retire early in 2 years time (age 60) and you wish to consider fully 
repaying your outstanding mortgage around £180,000 (including any early repayment fees). 
I consider that the report is clearly written. And that if Mr T hadnt agreed with its contents, 
he couldve asked Grove to amend the report before he signed the form. I also note that Mr 
T accepted the recommendation detailed in the Suitability Report when he completed the 
authority to proceed. I consider that this shows he was comfortable with the contents of the 
report.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr T had an IFA of his own. As such, Im not 
persuaded that he didnt know what the maximum tax-free cash was. I also understand that 
he did, in fact, elect to take his maximum tax-free cash. This confirms that he was aware of 
what that amount was. 
Im sorry that Mr T was stressed and anxious throughout the transfer process. But, from 
what Ive seen, Grove didnt do anything wrong. It processed the transfer in a reasonable 
timeframe. And kept Mr T informed throughout. It also gave what I consider to be suitable 
advice based on Mr Ts stated objectives. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman