DRN-3765669
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services
(BoI) lent her money that she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
BoI provided Miss B with a personal loan of £18,000 on 24 November 2017. The loan was
repayable over 84 months at the rate of £337 a month. She advised that she was coerced
into getting the loan by her ex-partner whose credit rating was rock bottom and was a
gambling addict. She said the funds were for home improvements (though she lived at home
with her parents) though in reality all the loan funds were transferred to her ex-partner to pay
off his debts. She has struggled to make the payments and she had to take on further
borrowing. She believes that BoI didnt carry out proper assessments of her circumstances
the time. She has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the
application.
BoI says it carried out all the relevant affordability checks. Miss B had said in her application
she was living at home with her parents, paying no rent. It assessed that the loan was
affordable, as she had a good credit record and sufficient disposable income.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator said that BoI had made a fair
lending decision to offer Miss B a loan and the checks it carried out were sufficient in the
circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that BoI hadnt made a fair lending 
decision. This was taking into account the amount of the loan, the period of repayment, 
Miss Bs high income to debt ratio, and the fact that she had requested a loan for home 
improvements for a property she didnt own.
Miss B accepted my provisional findings.
BoI disagreed with my provisional findings. It said that:
The regulatory requirement is to carry out an affordability assessment and not rely on
risk based measures, if the affordability assessment passes then the ratio or loan purpose 
do not become a key issue. 
CONC rules do not prescribe specific guidelines for Debt to Income Ratio.
In regard to the points around loan purpose, we would say that is more of a risk decision.. 
What the customer chooses to spend the money on has no bearing on the assessment of 
affordability. The fact that they are a non-homeowner borrowing for home improvement has 
no influence over a customers affordability. Also, many customers may use funds for 
multiple purposes so we cant read too much into the loan purpose declared, we have no 
control or influence on how a customer uses the funds.
On the overdraft piece, we should see this included in the unsecured debt data we get from 
the bureau. But to say were not lending responsibly because someone has an overdraft 
doesnt seem right. If this was the case we would never lend to customers looking to 
consolidate existing debt (incl. overdrafts) into a more affordable loan.
This loan was affordable and each payment has been made on time each month since 2017. 
Whilst we are sorry to learn Miss B has said she was coerced into applying for the loan, we 
know from the adjudicator that her ex-partner has paid her £338 each month to cover the 
repayments so there has been no financial loss. Your suggestion to refund the interest would 
only benefit the ex-partner as they would no longer need to repay the borrowing in full.
There evidently is an agreement between Miss B and her ex-partner as payments are being 
kept up-to-date, we would question interrupting this. Should there be any changes and 
Miss B needs help with her repayments the Bank is willing to assist with alternative solutions 
such as an affordable repayment plan. Miss B did knowingly apply for and accepted the 
loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint are:
Did BoI complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required BoI to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so BoI had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that BoI had to ensure that making 
the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for BoI to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income). 
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Miss B was provided with a very substantial loan (which was an unsecured loan), 
repayable over a long period of 7 years. I think that BoI should have carried out a very 
thorough assessment of Miss Bs financial circumstances.
Ive noted that this application went through entirely online, i.e. without any human oversight.
No doubt the process will flag up any problems that may need investigating further.
Nevertheless as will be clear from what I have said the rules and guidance do require the
business to carry out an objective appraisal when assessing affordability. Im not sure that
that is what happened in this case.
BoI hasnt been able to show us the details of the credit search it did at the time of the
application. I would expect it to be able to produce that evidence.
I have relied on what BoI told about Miss Bs circumstances, that she was employed and 
living at home with her parents. She had said she was paying no rent although this wasnt 
true. From what Miss B says, I think it likely that she did minimise her outgoings on the 
application at the request of her ex-partner. Nevertheless BoI noted that she had an 
income of £1,494 a month and existing credit commitments of £303. I think that figure 
includes car finance. She had no outstanding credit card balance, but she did have 
outstanding credit with an online payment service. She had an overdraft with her bank, of 
about £1,400, which remained about the same from month to month.
Bearing in mind that the loan was supposed to be for home improvements, the cost of the 
new loan repayments would be added to her existing credit, more than doubling her 
commitments. These would then have been about 43% of her income and would tie up her 
income for potentially seven years. My view is that any figure above 25%, especially one 
as high as this and for such a long period, would be an indication that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Whilst Miss B was living at home with her parents, she was nevertheless asking for 
£18,000 for home improvements for a house she didnt own or (on the face of it) have any 
interest in. I dont know what she would have answered if she had been asked about it, but 
I think it would have been difficult to explain, especially as the money clearly wasnt going 
to be used for home improvements.
Additionally she had an overdraft she wasnt able to pay off, which may have indicated that 
her outgoings were higher than she declared. She has shown us her bank statements from 
around the time of her application. If BoI had asked to see those statements, my view is 
that they were inconclusive, in that they dont show any rent or utilities being paid by her. 
They do show substantial sums being transferred to another account, which we havent 
seen the details of.According to BoIs figures Miss B would have had a disposable income, taking into 
account the new loan repayment, of about £360 a month. But its not just the pounds and 
pence figures we look at. From the information BoI got from its checks I dont think its 
been shown that the loan was sustainable.
So, I dont think that BoI made a fair lending decision.
As regards the remedy, this does depend to some extent on whether Miss B was coerced 
into taking out the loan, and more importantly whether BoI should have known about it. The 
evidence does show that all the funds from the loan were transferred to her ex-partner, so it 
does seem likely that he persuaded Miss B to apply for the loan in her name. I am sorry 
that Miss B suffered difficulties because of her ex-partner. I appreciate that this must have 
been very difficult for her, especially admitting that she had those difficulties. However I 
dont think that BoI was aware or could have been aware of this. When it was told (in her 
letter of complaint) I think it took the appropriate action, by advising her of organisations 
that could help her with support for her situation.
Ive already found the loan was mis-sold because BoI didnt carry out proper checks and 
had it done so it would have found the lending to be unaffordable. Ive set out below what I 
think it needs to do to put that right  to refund the interest and fees Miss B had to pay on a 
loan she should never have been lent. Ive also thought about whether its fair and 
reasonable to still expect her to have repaid the capital  despite what shes said about the 
coercion. Im satisfied that it is.
I say that because I can see that Miss B has made all the payments required to date, and
shes told us shes been able to make those payments because her ex-partner has been 
paying her back each month. Its likely that once BoI makes the calculation Ive set out 
below, Miss B will have already paid back all the capital. So even if the loan was taken out 
for the benefit of her ex-partner, he has now repaid all the capital, via Miss B, and it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect BoI to refund those payments to Miss B.
Miss B is concerned that if her ex-partner stops paying her back in the future she wont 
be able to keep up with the payments. But given that the capital has now been repaid, I 
dont think thats going to be an issue if Miss B accepts my proposed redress.
So I think that BoI should refund the interest and charges as Ive set out below, but I dont
propose to require it to take any other action.
As regards BoIs comments, affordability doesnt just consist of a pounds and pence 
assessment of an ability to pay. As Ive said BoI had to think whether repaying the loan was 
sustainable. To that extent I think the debt to income ratio is entirely relevant especially 
when it was so high as in this case. Whilst the CONC (Consumer Credit) rules dont provide 
specific guidelines for this, nevertheless our approach on this is that any figure above 25% 
should be considered as a potential for unaffordability.
I commented in my provisional findings that this application was entirely an online one. BoIs 
comments about the purpose of the loan serve to reinforce that if Miss B had applied for a 
loan of £18,000 for home improvements for a property she didnt own, nor, on the face of it, 
paid any rent for, a telephone conversation with an adviser would in my view have flagged 
this up. And whilst I understand that BoI has no control over how the consumer spends the 
funds that doesnt mean that the purpose of the loan isnt relevant.
I would agree that the issues of the bank overdraft alone wouldnt preclude the provision of 
the loan.Ive considered BoIs comments about how the loan is being repaid. And whilst any reduction 
may benefit her ex-partner, nevertheless I think the loan shouldnt have been provided, and 
Miss B has the sole responsibility for repaying the loan. She has spoken of her anxiety that 
her ex-partner may stop paying the loan, and I think that a decision which would leave her in 
the position of potentially having to go back to BoI wouldnt be right in her circumstances.
So I remain persuaded that my provisional findings were right in this case. Those findings 
are now final and form part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
Miss B has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think BoI should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss B has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, BoI should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss B
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BoI to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Miss B 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman