DRN-4084117
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander hasnt fully refunded him for the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam in 2022.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, and I will therefore 
restrict myself to a brief recap of the key elements. Likewise, in what follows I will focus on 
those elements I consider most relevant to the outcome at hand. In saying this though, I 
would like to assure Mr S and Santander that I have taken everything into consideration 
even if I have not specifically commented on it. The rules of this service permit me to do this.
In mid-2022, Mr S received a call from someone claiming to work for his internet provider 
(which Ill refer to as P). He was told the network had been experiencing technical difficulties 
and that this had caused him to receive poor quality service. Mr S was told that because of 
this he was due a refund of around £500.
Mr S was told that the caller was having trouble making the payment. He was told hed need 
to send money to an account supposedly belonging to P. This would mean that P could pay 
him the refund he was due, and the caller said hed be refunded for his own money.
Believing he was enabling P to refund him, Mr S made a payment by Faster Payments 
transfer from his Santander account, for £603. The caller told him it hadnt worked and to try 
again, this time sending £987. Being told this hadnt worked Mr S attempted a third payment, 
but this was blocked by Santander. Mr S says he then heard the caller laughing and realised 
that what hed been asked to do wasnt legitimate. 
Mr S reported the matter to Santander as having been fraudulent  an Authorised Push 
Payment scam (APP scam). Santander attempted to recover the money hed sent, but no 
funds remained to be retrieved.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from APP scams. Santander 
said it wouldnt refund Mr S in full because it didnt think hed taken enough steps to check 
he was paying a legitimate company for a legitimate service. But Santander thought it could 
have done more to protect Mr S and said it would refund half of the amount hed paid.
Mr S didnt accept this. He referred his complaint to this service. 
One of Investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think Santander needed to 
pay more than it had already. She considered Mr S had made the payments without having 
held a reasonable basis for believing that the transactions were legitimate.
Mr S didnt agree  he said that at the time of the scam the three businesses involved had 
fake websites which had now been taken down. But the Investigator didnt think this changed 
things.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In law, Santander has as a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it in accordance with the payment mandate. As a starting point, a customer 
is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
But that isnt the end of the story. In particular, as Ive mentioned earlier, the voluntary CRM 
Code can provide additional protection where payments have been made as the result of an 
APP scam. Santander hasnt disputed that the additional protections of the CRM Code 
should apply here. Under the terms of the CRM Code, the bank has reimbursed Mr S half of 
the money he sent from his Santander account.
Santander accepts partial fault, but it considers Mr S must equally share responsibility for the 
loss. What remains for me to determine is whether that is a fair outcome or if, on the 
contrary, Santander can fairly be required to repay the remaining balance.
The CRM Code wont always require a firm to refund payments in full. In particular, it says a 
firm can choose not to fully reimburse APP scam losses where the firm can establish that the 
customer made the transactions without having a reasonable basis for believing what they 
did - including that they were paying a legitimate person for a genuine service. Santander 
seeks to rely on that here.
When considering if Santander has treated Mr S fairly in line with the CRM Code, I therefore 
must consider whether Mr S made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing this was for legitimate purposes. I have carefully considered everything Mr S has 
submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the bank.
There were some features here that I consider would have made the scam seem more 
believable. Mr S at that time did use P for his internet service, and he explains he had 
noticed some problems with his connection. So the reason given for the call he received 
wasnt completely implausible.
But there were factors I think should have caused Mr S to have significant doubts about what 
was happening. On balance, I consider these were significant red flags that reasonably 
should have stopped him from going ahead, and from making the payments he ultimately 
made.
Firstly, I dont find the story he was given was plausible  that P could only refund him if he 
paid a large sum first. I think Mr S should have been concerned by what he was told. During 
the telephone call when he reported the scam to Santander, he comments that he knew this 
wasnt right. 
Furthermore, the name of the account he was told to pay didnt have any obvious connection 
to P. Mr S said he queried this at the time but was reassured when he was told theyd pay 
him his money back.  I have taken into account what Mr S has explained about his circumstances. I appreciate 
that since the scam occurred his situation has worsened. I am sorry to hear about the impact 
these events have had on him, and I do not underestimate the effect of this crime on him.
But I need to consider the situation he was in at the time of the payments he made and 
whether he was able to have protected himself from the scam that occurred. 
And based on what he said to the bank at the time of reporting the scam, I think that at that 
time, he was able to identify that what he had been asked to do wasnt right and had doubts 
about it at the time he was making the payments. 
I think Mr S should have trusted his instincts here. So I find he was able to have protected 
himself from what happened. Having reviewed everything, I am not satisfied that Mr S had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying who he thought he was paying or that he was 
paying for a genuine service.
Ive considered the evidence here thoroughly including everything Mr S has said. But overall, 
Im satisfied that Santander has fairly established that the exception to full reimbursement 
under the CRM Code can be applied to Mr Ss payments. 
The CRM Code is a voluntary code that exists to provide additional protection where it is 
relevant. But Ive also thought about whether Santander should be held responsible for a 
higher amount outside the provisions of the CRM Code.
Santander followed Mr Ss instructions when it made these payments, and I dont find there 
was a reason for it not to have done so  that was its primary obligation here. The payments 
werent so unusual or remarkable in value or type that the bank ought to have suspected 
something might have been wrong. 
And when the scam came to light, Im satisfied that Santander acted appropriately in 
attempting to recover Mr Ss money, but none remained by the point the scam had been 
uncovered. In short, the bank acted appropriately outside of the requirements of the CRM 
Code.
With all of the above in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Santander 
needs to do more than it has already done, and it does not need to refund more than the 
50% it already has paid to Mr S. 
In saying this, I am sorry to hear about the situation that arose here, and that Mr S has been 
left significantly out of pocket as a result of this scam. I understand that this is not the 
outcome Mr S wants. But I can reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered all the 
circumstances of his complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and reasonable 
decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman