DRN-4227933
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt refund the money she lost 
in a scam.
What happened
Mrs M is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will refer to Mrs M in this provisional
decision.
Mrs M was a single mother of six and had gone through a difficult separation and divorce
from her husband. He left her with no money. In June 2016, she met someone through an
online dating website. I will call this person Mr X. In a short period of time, she became
deeply attached to Mr X, who lived in the USA. Mr X said he was a businessman, buying and
selling gold jewellery. He had a website which appeared genuine. Mr X said they would get
married and he would move countries to live with Mrs M. Mrs M is a devout Christian, and Mr
X said he was also - and they found a common bond in their beliefs. The spoke frequently on
the phone and exchanged many emails.
In July 2016, Mr X said he was in the UAE on business. But he said his credit card wouldnt
work  he needed to pay for his hotel room. He asked Mrs M to send him £2,000 to pay for
the hotel. She withdrew cash from Barclays and sent it to a beneficiary in the UAE  using a
money transfer service. He showed Mrs M the receipt which appeared genuine.
He then said he wanted to buy some gold in the UAE. Some of which was to pay for their
wedding and for them to visit Africa. She sent £10,000 from her Barclays account to a
beneficiary in the UAE.
The transactions were:
Date Transaction Amount
19 July 2016 Cash withdrawal at branch and transfer to 
third party beneficiary£2,000
15 August 2016 Payment to third party beneficiary £10,000
15 August 2016 Payment fee £25
Mrs Ms son then became aware of what had happened and said the website wasnt
genuine. Mrs M then realised she had been scammed.
Mrs M says she was particularly vulnerable after her divorce. She believed Mr X to be
genuine, and he convinced her he was a devout Christian (as she is) to build a relationship
of trust with her. She also assumed he had been vetted by the dating website.
Mrs M says Barclays shouldve intervened in both transactions. The cash withdrawal was
unusual, as was the large payment. Barclays didnt contact her about either. If Barclays had
done so, she wouldnt have made the payments. She reported the scam to Barclays, but it
took them over a year to respond. Mrs M says the scam caused her a lot of harm and she
had to leave her job of 40 years as a result. She says Barclays should refund £12,025 and
pay compensation of £500 for the distress caused.
What Barclays said:
Barclays said they had no record of Mrs M contacting them at the time of the scam. On the
cash withdrawal  Barclays said this was freely made by Mrs M and the money then sent to
a third party. They didnt consider such a cash withdrawal to be unusual.
Barclays looked at the payment of £10,000 under the principles laid down by the Contingent
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code)  even though this code wasnt in place until
2019, three years later. They said the payment was out of character compared to the
previous spend on Mrs Ms account. But on the other hand, Mrs M didnt display any due
diligence herself before making the payment to someone shed never met and had only
known for a short period of time. And so - they refunded half of the payment (£5,000)
because there was blame on both sides. To this, they added interest at 8% per annum -
£1,905.09.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs M didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views. The
first view agreed with the Barclays payment already made.
Our investigators second and final view said Barclays should refund all the money  the
cash withdrawal of £2,000 and the payment of £10,000; plus interest at 8% per annum. She
said Mrs M was vulnerable at the time and was in financial difficulty. She said Barclays
shouldve questioned the cash withdrawal in the branch.
Mrs M accepted this view, but Barclays didnt. They said that of itself, Mrs Ms vulnerability
didnt mean the money should be refunded. There wasnt any evidence to say that Mrs Ms
vulnerability affected her judgement. Barclays asked that an ombudsman look at Mrs Ms
complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mrs M has lost money in a cruel scam; particularly as it happened at a
difficult time in her life. Its not in question that she authorised and consented to the cash
withdrawal and the payment in this case. So although Mrs M didnt intend for the money to
go to the scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. In July and August 2016, there were some
circumstances where a bank should have taken additional steps before processing a
payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. For example, there
were some guidelines which should have been followed when older or vulnerable customers
asked to make unusually large cash withdrawals or where someone appeared to be telling
them what to do.
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And the Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was set up to provide protection for customerswho fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, and also to reduce the occurrence
of APP fraud.
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in
its dealings with Mrs M when she requested the payments I have discussed above, based
on the expectations of banks in 2016. I also need to consider whether Barclays did all that it
ought to have done when Mrs M reported that the payments were fraudulent. Having done
so, Im not persuaded Barclays should refund Mrs M the amount she lost. But I note that
Barclays has considered Mrs Ms complaint under current best practice and refund 50% of
her loss plus interest. In doing so, Barclays has gone beyond what it needed to do.
I have set out below the position in respect of each payment.
Cash withdrawal of £2,000: Barclays have no record of whether this was questioned in the
branch or not  given the passage of time. I accept this to be a reasonable argument to
make. I looked at Mrs Ms account  and noted there werent any other significant cash
withdrawals. But the withdrawal was for a relatively small amount and there was no
requirement for Barclays to intervene  so I think Barclays acted reasonably in allowing the
cash withdrawal.
Payment for £10,000: Im also not persuaded that good industry practice in 2016 meant
Barclays should have intervened in any way at the time this payment was made. But even if
Barclays had intervened and called Mrs M  I dont think it would have made a difference
and caused her to stop the payment.
Ive reviewed in depth the emails between Mrs M and Mr X  between May 2016 and August
2016. And here, for me  it seems that Mrs M was completely committed to Mr X. She
clearly believed everything she was told and was looking forward to her new life with him.
She believed he was going to marry her and move countries. They shared all their personal
information between each other  for example, families, houses, jobs, and their daily
experiences. Moreover, they shared a deep Christian belief  and I saw that Mrs M believed
they were brought together by their beliefs. I therefore think it is reasonable to say - that
even if Barclays had stopped the payment (although there was no obligation to do so at the
time) and contacted Mrs M  she wouldve gone ahead with the payment anyway. So that
means  I dont think Barclays should refund the money.
Barclays agreed to consider Mrs Ms case under the provisions of the CRM Code and has
already refunded half of the £10,000 payment plus interest. So Barclays has already paid
Mrs M more than I am recommending.
Vulnerability: Mrs M has argued that she was particularly vulnerable at the time, and so was
easily taken in by Mr X. I can accept that to be the case. But equally, I think we could only
reasonably have expected Barclays to have taken account of that if they knew of her
situation. And in Barclays records  theres nothing to suggest that was the case. So  I
dont think we couldve expected Barclays to have done anything differently because of this.
Recovery: We would expect firms to contact the beneficiary bank in cases of scams  to try
to get the money back. But here the scam took place in July 2016 and August 2016  and
Barclays say the first contact they received was in July 2022. I can see from Barclays
records that Mrs M called them in October 2016 about a scam, but for £15,430  which
wasnt this case. So in those circumstances, given the passage of time, it wouldnt be
reasonable to expect Barclays to have done anything to try to recover the money.
Mrs M lost a lot of money at a difficult time in her life. She was completely taken in by a
sophisticated and skilled scammer. But my role is to come to a decision based on thebalance of evidence put forward by both sides. And in the circumstances of this, my
provisional decision is that Barclays acted reasonably and dont have to refund any more
money here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays made no comments, but Mrs M did, through her advisors. This said:
Both payments were out of character and shouldve been picked up and questioned 
by Barclays. If they had, Barclays staff wouldve warned Mrs M and the scam 
wouldve been stopped. Barclays staff are well trained in what to do and the 
questions to be asked. This is now standard across the banking industry.
The amounts involved were not relevant when it comes to fraud detection systems.
Barclays were aware of Mrs Ms vulnerability which was because of her recent 
divorce.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The point I made in the provisional decision was that the checks that Barclays made at the 
time (2016) and under the guidelines then in force  were not the same as now. So  I 
cannot reasonably expect Barclays to have made the checks then that would be expected 
later.
The amount of the withdrawal is relevant  it was then, as now. I dont think its reasonable 
to expect a bank to stop and question every payment, regardless of amount  this would 
place an unreasonable onus on banks and would mean their day-to-day operations were 
affected.
I made the point in the provisional decision  that Barclays had no record of Mrs Ms 
personal situation and her divorce, or its impact. We cant reasonably expect Barclays to 
have taken this into account if they didnt know about it.
Having considered the points made, Im not persuaded to change my view from the 
provisional decision. Therefore, my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision. 
And Barclays dont need to do anymore here.(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman