DRN-1847098
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the redress he's been paid by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax). He doesn't think he's been fairly compensated.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for these reasons:
Halifax upheld the complaint about the suitability of the advice and I think 
they were right to. They said the recommendation wasn't suitable on the basis that 
Mr C was advised to take too much risk, which I think was correct given his 
circumstances at the time.
They offered redress by comparing the return Mr C received from his investment 
against the return of a lower risk investment using 50% of the total invested against 
the Bank of England Bond Rate and 50% against the WMA Stock Market Income 
Index. This comparison is similar to what we would use when calculating redress for 
a consumer that was willing to take a small amount of risk with their investment.
I think the 50/50 combination reasonably puts Mr C into the position he should have 
been in, had he been given suitable advice. It does not mean that Mr C would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker fund. Rather, it is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
Having done this, Halifax found that Mr C suffered a loss of £235.16, so they paid the 
loss plus 8% simple interest. The additional interest is for being deprived of the use 
of any compensation money since the end date.
In this case Im satisfied their approach was reasonable, and their methodology in 
line with how our service would generally calculate redress.
 
I appreciate Mr C thinks the redress he's received doesn't compensate him for the mis-
selling of the investment. But for the reasons I've given above, I'm satisfied that Halifax has 
followed a reasonable methodology in putting things right and I won't be asking them to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax has already paid redress that is fair and reasonable.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman