DRN-2425392
The complaint
 Mr D has complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Mr D took three instalment loans from Cash4unow between May 2018 and November 2018. 
A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Cash4unow, can 
be found below:
LoanDate Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMonthly 
Repayment
1 17/05/2018 24/08/2018 4 £250.00 £92.40
2 10/09/2018 16/11/2018 4 £600.00 £215.49
3 16/11/2018 03/05/2019 6 £750.00 £239.09
In our latest assessment, one of our adjudicators looked again at Mr Ds complaint, after it 
was initially reviewed. The adjudicator thought that the information Cash4unow received 
from a credit reference agency when assessing Mr Ds application for loan 1 suggested that 
loan, and all future loans, werent likely to be affordable for him. The adjudicator thought that, 
if Cash4unow had carried out further checks as it should, it is likely it wouldve found all 
borrowing was likely to be a detriment to his financial situation. So, the adjudicator upheld 
Mr Ds complaint about all of his loans.
It appears that Mr D agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Cash4unow disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ds complaint. And I think Cash4unow was wrong to approve all of Mr 
Ds loans. Id like to explain why.
When Mr D applied for his first loan, Cash4unow asked him to declare his monthly income 
and expenditure. Mr D informed Cash4unow that he had an income of £2,750 and his 
monthly expenditure totalled £1,952. This left him with a disposable income of around £798 
with which to meet his monthly repayment of £92.40. So based, solely on this information, 
Cash4unow may have thought the loan was affordable. 
However, Cash4unow also completed a credit check. The results showed Mr D had an 
outstanding loan balance totalling £24,687 and revolving credit totalling £10,306. In addition 
to this, Cash4unow was aware he had been subject to 19 credit searches within the previous 
12 months, with 13 searches completed in the previous three months. So Cash4unow was 
on notice, that Mr D was, on average, making requests for credit at least four times per 
month. In my view, this is a clear sign that he may have been having wider financial 
problems. Cash4unow should have questioned whether a consumer potentially being given 
4 new credit facilities per month was in a sound financial position. 
I accept the credit check results didnt show Mr D had any active short-term loans at the time 
of his application. But I think Cash4unow had enough information to suggest 
Mr D had been applying for a significant number of credit accounts within a short period of 
time. And this suggests that he was potentially struggling to meet his existing normal 
monthly living costs without frequent and repeated borrowing. 
In addition to this, Cash4unow would have been aware from the credit check results that a 
large portion of Mr Ds income was already accounted for  given the value of the accounts 
that he had outstanding. Along with the information Mr D provided about his monthly 
expenditure for food, travel etc, this would have meant he had a significantly lower 
disposable income than what he declared. There is an argument that the credit checks on its 
own ought to have prevented Cash4unow to lending to Mr D. 
But, even if I thought Cash4unow needed to complete additional checks on Mr Ds 
circumstances because there were clear flags to suggest that Mr D may have been having 
significant problems managing his finances. It still wouldve thought these loans werent 
sustainable and Ive explained why below. Had Cash4unow made further enquires with Mr D, I think its likely it would have seen he 
was having problems managing his money. I say this because Mr D was borrowing from at 
least four other short-term lenders at the time he applied for his Cash4unow loan. This 
wasnt the action of someone in a stable financial position. And for Mr D to have taken out a 
borrowing with Cash4unow would have certainly been detrimental to his financial position. 
So, I think Cash4unow was wrong to approve loan 1.
When Mr D applied for his second and third loan, Cash4unow completed the same level of 
checks as it had done for his first loan. But the results of the credit check suggested Mr Ds 
financial position had actually worsened. The total number of accounts increased for each 
credit check, indicating that Mr D was applying for and being approved credit from several 
different sources.  
Mr D took out loan 2 around four months after loan 1, so the credit check results suggest Mr 
D had taken out 11 accounts within this time. So, he was averaging around 3 accounts per 
month. This high account turnover shows Mr D was continuing to borrow from other creditors 
 most likely short-term lenders. And a similar situation arose when loan 3 was applied for. 
So, to me, it seems that Mr Ds financial worsened the longer he borrowed from Cash4unow.   
So, I dont think Cash4unow should have continued to lend to Mr D knowing the information 
it had gathered from its credit checks results. As a result, I think Cash4unow were wrong to 
approve all of Mr Ds loans.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D, Cash4unow should:
Refund all interest, fees and charges applied on all of Mr Ds loans 
Add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information recorded about these loans from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman