DRN-3109307
The complaint
Mr H complains about Society of Lloyds (hereafter Lloyds) placing an exclusion on his 
private medical insurance policy. 
Mr H is represented but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as being made by him directly. 
Reference to Lloyds includes those acting within its marketplace.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with this complaint, so the following is only a summary of what 
happened.
Mr H lives abroad. In 2015 he purchased a Silver Medical Plan with Lloyds. The policy was 
designed to pay medically incurred charges that arose out of bodily injury or sickness, and in 
April 2019 Mr H submitted a number of claims through it. 
However, Lloyds said that Mr Hs medical evidence showed a history of glaucoma and 
cataracts prior to the start of his policy, so it would be applying an exclusion for ocular 
disorders and wouldnt be covering those related claims. 
Mr H complained and said he hadnt been diagnosed with glaucoma or cataracts until 2019. 
He also said his April 2019 claims should have been honoured, and some of his claims from 
a previous year had been wrongly declined as being late. 
During the period of complaint Mr Hs policy came up for renewal. Given his ongoing 
concerns he didnt renew it and it lapsed, but he did ask Lloyds to refund five years worth of 
premiums to finance any ongoing medical treatment.
Lloyds offered a refund of premiums in full and final settlement of matters, but Mr H 
explained he did not wish to accept that. Lloyds then said Mr Hs policy would remain in 
force if his premiums were paid, no exclusion would be placed on the policy, and coverage 
for Mr Hs eye conditions would continue. Lloyds also said that the April 2019 claims would 
be considered and the time limits for previous claim submissions would be waived. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for his policy to be extended until a resolution was 
reached. 
Lloyds explained that an automated system error had led to the exclusion being applied and 
it accepted Mr Hs explanation of not having an earlier diagnosis. It said its system had been 
updated, payments for the submitted claims had been issued, and given there had been 
instances of delay and poor communication at times it would also provide $1,000 in 
compensation. 
Mr H said he would accept the above as part payment towards matters, so Lloyds issued a 
final response. 
Within that Lloyds further explained that a processer had misread information in Mr Hs 
medical evidence. It said that was why an incorrect diagnosis date had been recorded and it 
offered an additional $750 in compensation, taking its total compensation to $1,750. But 
Lloyds said other issues Mr H had gone on to raise (so, expectant medical procedures and 
post April 2019 claims) hadnt been the complaint raised to it and would need to be directed 
towards its claims department in the first instance.
Unhappy with Lloyds final response Mr H referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator agreed that Lloyds had made an error and thought it could have done more 
to identify it sooner. But they said it was Mr Hs decision not to renew the policy, he 
appeared to have had the further treatment he said had been delayed, and there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to suggest that any delay in treatment had prevented him from working. 
Our investigator also said that the April 2019 claims had been paid, it would be unfair to 
direct Lloyds to pay medical charges which had been incurred after a policy had lapsed, and 
$1,750 compensation was a fair reflection of what had happened. 
Mr H disagreed at length. He raised concerns about the investigation that had taken place 
and set out a number of matters that he wanted found in favour of. Again, I wont recite each 
of those individual points here, but Mr H said our investigator wrongly concluded Lloyds had 
acted fairly. He said Lloyds had acted in bad faith, had excessively delayed matters, and 
had breached its responsibility to him. Mr H also said that his complaint had gone beyond a 
complaint about administration and the aggravated circumstances surrounding it warranted 
not less than $16,000 in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided detailed submissions which I have carefully considered. Although Ive 
summarised events in less detail than theyve been presented, if I have not mentioned or do 
not mention something its not because I have ignored it. It is because I do not consider it 
central to the outcome of this complaint.
Lloyds will know that it must handle claims both promptly and fairly, and must not decline a 
claim unreasonably. 
Its not disputed that Lloyds made an error. It says it has now put that right and has 
compensated Mr H in recognition of what happened. But Mr H says that its compensation 
isnt sufficient, and a figure of not less than $16,000 is warranted. So, I need to decide if 
additional compensation is warranted here.
It is clear that Mr H feels very strongly about whats happened and would like Lloyds 
penalised. This service does not award compensation as a punitive measure. Compensation 
is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss mistake has 
had on someone  and any award I make, or I find to be fair, needs to reflect that. 
Lloyds confirmed it wouldnt be placing an exclusion on Mr Hs policy in November 2019, but 
I am mindful that it didnt actually explain what had caused the error with the wrong 
diagnosis date until January 2020.
Mr H was clearly distressed by the error and I appreciate that as well as having the wrong 
date removed, understanding what led to the wrong date being used in the first place was an 
important matter for him too. So, given Mr Hs apparent concern and frustration around the issue of causation, I too think Lloyds could have done more to explain what had happened 
sooner and alleviate some of the distress Mr H was experiencing. 
I accept that Mr H had intended to seek further treatment. Hes told this service that he was 
unable to have that treatment because of Lloyds error at the time, and that hes remained 
unable to have it because of the ongoing covid-19 restrictions in his country. 
I dont think it would be fair of me to hold Lloyds responsible for any restrictions in place, but 
I do acknowledge that the initial uncertainty surrounding the exclusion may have affected 
Mr Hs willingness to seek and subsequently claim for further treatment. So again, even 
though Lloyds had gone on to explain the exclusion would not be applied, I do think it could 
have done more to set out what had happened at the time and that in turn may have helped 
reassure Mr H with regard to the ability to seek further treatment. 
Mr Hs policy lapsed during the period of complaint and I accept that he is now without a 
medical insurance policy. I empathise with the difficult position Mr Hs has said this puts him 
in, but Im not of the opinion that Lloyds can fairly be held responsible for this.
As I noted above, Mr H hadnt had confirmation of what had caused the error at the point his 
policy was due for renewal. But he had gone on to be told that the exclusion would not be 
applied, and that his policy could continue if its premiums were paid. 
I fully accept that Mr H would have liked more information regarding the error at that point in 
time and was firmly of the opinion that Lloyds was being unreasonable with him. But I do 
think that Lloyds had provide enough information to make it clear that the policy would not 
be subject to the ocular disorders exclusion, and that it could continue if Mr H wanted it to 
subject to the premiums being paid. 
During its consideration of the complaint Lloyds advised that the claims Mr H had submitted 
would be assessed in line with the policy terms. Those claims have since been assessed, 
and cheques relating to them provided. 
Mr H has said those cheques cannot be considered as settlement because they were not 
made available to him, but I can see that the cheques were issued and Lloyds contacted 
Mr H to explain they were awaiting his collection. I can also see that Lloyds asked if there 
was a different way that Mr H would prefer for the cheques to be made available to him. 
That being said, the cheques do set out that they are void after 180 days. So if they have 
remained uncollected as Mr H has described, I dont think his request for them to be 
reissued is unreasonable.
This service provided Mr H with a breakdown of the claims Lloyds issued those cheques for. 
However, I also understand that Mr H would like further assistance from Lloyds to help him 
understand its calculations and again I dont think that request is an unreasonable one 
either.
As I set out above, Im aware that I have summarised events in less detail than theyve been 
presented. Although I have only considered matters that were part of the original complaint 
to Lloyds, I fully accept that Mr H was caused a substantial amount of distress, upset, and 
inconvenience because of Lloyds error and I think it was right for it to recognise that. 
Lloyds accepted it made an error and explained what caused it. It did not apply the 
exclusion to Mr Hs policy, and it assessed the claims that he had made. Lloyds also 
acknowledged it could have provided a better level of service, and it provided a total of 
$1,750 in compensation to reflect that. For the reasons given above I think Lloyds took sufficient steps to remedy the error it had 
made and provided an amount of compensation that fairly and proportionately reflected the 
impact of its mistakes on Mr H. I realise Mr H will likely be further disappointed by this 
finding, but for the reasons I have given above I will not be awarding an increase in 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman