DRN-2737340
The complaint
Mr G complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC wasnt able to repair his car 
under his minor damage repair insurance policy. 
What happened
The bonnet of Mr Gs car was damaged by a small scratch and dent, so he contacted 
Amtrust to claim on his policy. Amtrust reviewed the claim and accepted it, the claim was 
then referred to one of its approved repairers.
The repairer assessed the claim and said the damage couldnt be repaired using minor 
damage repair techniques. Amtrust therefore referred the claim to another repairer who also 
assessed the damage and said it couldnt be repaired using minor damage repair 
techniques. As the damage couldnt be repaired using the minor damage repair techniques 
Amtrust offered Mr G £150 towards a car body shop repair, as per the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr G didnt think what Amtrust had done was fair and complained. Amtrust reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Amtrust said two repairers had said it needed to be repaired 
by a car body shop, so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr G didnt agree and 
brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found that 
as the damage was to the bonnet and because of the type of damage, it was fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust to say it needed repairing by a car body shop. She therefore thought 
Amtrusts offer of £150 was fair and reasonable. Mr G didnt agree that Amtrust couldnt 
repair his car. 
As Mr G didnt agree with our Investigator the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy define Minor Damage as:
A minor damage repair is one where a technician can complete a repair within one hour 
using minor damage repair techniques (also known as small medium area repair techniques) 
and will be to industry standards and best endeavours. 
The terms go onto say that if one of Amtrusts technicians says this isnt possible and the car 
requires a body shop repair, then Amtrust will pay £150 towards this. 
In Mr Gs case he doesnt agree that Amtrust cant repair his car using these techniques and 
that it needs a car body shop repair. Ive considered this and I can see that when Amtrusts 
first repairer/technician said his car couldnt be repaired using minor damage repair 
techniques, Mr Gs claim was referred to another repairer/technician. This repairer also said 
his car couldnt be repaired using minor damage repair techniques and needed to be 
repaired by a car body shop. 
As Amtrust has appointed two different repairers to try and repair Mr Gs car Im satisfied 
that its likely his car does need to be repaired by a car body shop. Im therefore satisfied 
that Amtrusts offer of £150 towards the repair is fair and reasonable and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. It therefore follows that Im not going to instruct Amtrust to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Amtrust International Underwriters DACs offer of £150 towards     
Mr Gs repair is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman