DRN-3020330
The complaint
Mrs T complains about a decision American Express Services Europe Limited (American 
Express) made not to uphold a claim she sent to them under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs T has been ably represented when making her claim to this service but as Mrs T is the 
account holder I will only refer to her in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs T made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as the goods Mrs T received were not the 
ones she ordered. In those circumstances she has a like claim against American Express to 
recover her money if she returns the goods.
But thats the money Mrs T paid and not the money Mrs T paid to buy equivalent goods. 
Mrs T says the additional cost to buy the goods she wanted is a consequential cost and 
should be returned to her. But Im not persuaded the additional costs of the replacement 
goods is a cost Mrs T incurred as a consequence of the breach of contract.
That additional cost is one that Mrs T chose to incur because she couldnt get the goods 
from the initial supplier. Its not a cost that flowed inevitably from the suppliers failure to 
supply goods. It arose as a result of Mrs T choosing to pay for an alternative product from an 
alternative supplier. 
Mrs T has provided a link to another decision this service has made in which she suggests 
they have accepted her view on consequential losses. I think its fair to say that each case 
has its own set of circumstances, which makes it hard to draw direct comparisons. I havent 
reviewed the assessment provided for that reason.
So, if Mrs T now returns the goods to the supplier and they fail to reimburse her I think she 
should be able to make a like claim to American Express. But it wouldnt be fair to do that 
until the goods have been returned.
American Express initially declined to process a section 75 claim as they said the necessary 
debtor-creditor-supplier link had been broken by the introduction of a payment aggregator. 
Ive considered what the investigator had to say about that, and I agree with his comments. 
A payment aggregator does not break the link required to consider a section 75 claim and 
this service has previously written to American Express about that issue.
But in this complaint I dont think American Express need to take any further action as things 
stand.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman