DRN-1951731
The complaint
Mr B complains about a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G) which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr B with a loan of £750 on 25 March 2019. The interest rate was 207.6% 
(1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of 
£171.42. If Mr B made each payment when it was due, hed pay £3,085.56 in total. Mr B 
missed his first repayment and then complained to this service. The loan hasnt been repaid. 
 
Mr B says that L2G should have realised he was already struggling to repay his other loans 
from other lenders. He said he wasnt asked for evidence of his income and expenses.  
In its final response letter L2G said that Mr B had declared his income as £1,620 but it 
verified that he received a monthly average income of £1,379. L2G said that Mr B declared 
his expenditure to be £270 but it calculated his expenditure to total £1,206.58 following its 
review of Mr Bs credit report and it also deducted 5% of his income as a buffer for any 
fluctuations in Mr Bs monthly income. This left a disposable income of £172.42. After the 
monthly loan payment of £171.42, this left a disposable income of £1. L2G concluded that 
Mr B had enough disposable income to afford the contractual repayments.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.
L2G disagreed. It said that its credit checks showed two loan accounts that had recently 
been taken out. But it did a thorough affordability assessment to ascertain that Mr B could 
sustainably repay the monthly instalments. It also said with regard to its affordability 
assessment, that Mr B declared an income of £1,620 and expenditure of £270. The 
expenditure information it requested included housing, utilities, food, transport, credit 
commitments and other expenditure. It asked its credit reference agency to verify if the bank 
account provided by Mr B had received enough income over the past six months to afford 
the loan. It said that it verified Mr B received at least £1,379. It took into account statistical 
expenditure data and Mr Bs credit commitments, which increased his expenditure
to £1,045.45. This would have left Mr B with a disposable Income of £333.55 which was 
sufficient to cover the monthly repayments of £171.42 and would have left him with £162.13 
to cover for any fluctuation in his expenditure or income. So, it said it wasnt wrong to lend 
this loan.
The adjudicator responded to say that L2G was aware the information Mr B provided in his 
income and expenditure wasn't a true reflection of his actual finances after it carried out a 
credit check. L2G was also aware Mr B had recently taken out two short term loans 
indicating he may have had financial issues. The adjudicator believed this should've 
prompted L2G to have carried out further checks to ensure the information it relied on was 
an accurate reflection of Mr B's finances at the time. One of the ways it could've done this 
was by checking his recent bank statements. This would've then shown the loan was 
unaffordable based on the amount he was repaying towards his other financial
commitments - in particular his other payday loans. The amount Mr B repaid one month prior 
to lending was around double his actual income. This meant Mr B was taking out loans to 
repay his financial commitments. This was not a sustainable way to repay debt. So, the 
adjudicator believed that if L2G carried out further checks it would've seen the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr B.
L2G disagreed.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When L2G lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mr B wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr B of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, L2G had to consider Mr Bs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without Mr B having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory 
duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his financial 
situation. 
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  L2G needed to take reasonable 
steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr Bs current income. It 
also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate 
of, Mr Bs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to the lender to decide 
what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be reasonable and proportionate to 
the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and 
amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
Finally, the rules list unfair business practices. In particular, the rules say a lender mustnt 
accept an application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the 
borrower has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant 
to the creditworthiness assessment. This would arise where the information supplied by a 
borrower is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the lender is aware.Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, Ive considered the 
following questions:
- Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Mr B about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Ive set out above the two different sets of expenditure information L2G provided in its final 
response letter and in its response to the adjudicators view. Although there were differences 
between both sets of information, this hasnt affected my overall assessment of this 
complaint.
I note that Mr B supplied information about his expenses for housing, food, utilities and travel 
but he didnt provide any information about his credit commitments. L2G increased the 
expenditure information Mr B provided to it after carrying out its credit check. I note that the 
information L2G saw on its credit check showed that Mr B had total monthly credit 
repayments of at least £438. L2G also took into account statistical expenditure data which 
increased its expenditure estimate.
The rules that applied to L2G at the time expressly said it mustnt accept an application for 
credit if it knew or had reasonable cause to suspect that Mr B hadnt been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment. I dont think its checks were proportionate because there was a discrepancy 
between what Mr B said about his existing credit and what it could see through its checks. 
So, I think L2G should either have carried out further checks  to see if there were good 
reasons for this difference  or it shouldnt have provided Mr B with the loan. 
I appreciate L2G carried out a credit check. But from what it has provided to this service, it 
doesnt seem the check was complete as many of the information fields show no information 
found. 
In addition, I dont think it was reasonable for L2G to rely on the expenses information 
provided by Mr B without verifying it given the cost of the credit, that he needed to be able to 
meet this level of repayment for 18 months, and that his finances were showing signs of 
possible strain. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I dont think the checks 
L2G carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
I note that our adjudicator in his initial view thought better checks were needed because of 
the amount of disposable income left after Mr B had made the loan repayments and because 
of the two loans L2G had seen in its credit checks. I can see that L2G included an amount 
for contingency in its calculations so I dont think the amount of disposable income left after     
Mr B made his loan repayments would have been of concern. But as Ive said above, I do 
think the discrepancy between the information Mr B provided about his existing credit and 
what L2G saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks.
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr B has provided his bank statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that L2G should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements gives me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. Had it made 
further checks, I think L2G wouldve been in a better position to understand Mr Bs financial 
situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Had L2G enquired further it would likely have seen the extent of Mr Bs dependence on short 
term and longer term borrowing. Having reviewed Mr Bs bank statements in the month 
before the loan I can see that Mr B had taken out seven payday loans totalling £3,780 in the 
three weeks prior to L2Gs loan. There also appeared to be two longer term loans totalling 
£9,990 which had been taken out in the previous six weeks.  I can also see from Mr Bs bank 
statements that Mr B was spending money on stock market trading. 
So, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
demonstrated that Mr B wouldnt have been able to make the repayments to this loan 
without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, I dont think that L2G treated 
Mr B fairly when it agreed to lend to him as it was likely that agreeing more credit for him 
would simply add to his debt levels. So, on this basis, Im satisfied this complaint should be 
upheld. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I understand that the loan 
hasnt been repaid. So L2G should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of 
£750 he borrowed for his loan. 
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses to 
do so and then take the steps listed below. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt back or chooses 
not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Bs account from when it was 
opened;
2. Treat all payments made by Mr B as payments towards the capital amount.
3. If Mr B has made payments above the capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then L2G needs to treat Mr B sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
5. L2G should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out above and 
require Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman