DRN-3126962
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its account 
and terminated its Bounce Back Loan facility unfairly.
Es director, Mr E, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with HSBC. The company successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan in May 2020, drawing down a loan of £50,000 on 21 May.
Shortly thereafter, HSBC began a review of Es account. It applied a restriction to the 
account while it did so, limiting Mr Es access to it.
Following the review, HSBC decided to close Es account. The bank wrote to E on 25 June 
2020 to advise that the account would be closed on 24 August 2020. The restriction 
remained in place.
HSBC subsequently terminated Es Bounce Back Loan facility and wrote to the company on 
28 September 2020 to confirm this. It said that the loan needed to be repaid immediately. It 
used the funds within Es account to reduce the amount owed, leaving an outstanding 
balance of around £18,000.
Mr E complained to HSBC. He was unhappy that hed been unable to access Es account 
and, in particular, thought the bank shouldve returned the balance to him when the account 
was closed  rather than using it to reduce the loan, which he said he would make separate 
arrangements to repay.
HSBC said it had restricted Es account in order to comply with the banks legal 
requirements. It said that it had terminated the Bounce Back Loan and exercised its rights of 
set-off in line with its rights under the agreement  so it was unwilling to repay the funds 
used to reduce the debt to Mr E.
Mr E referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt 
think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong. She said, in summary, that 
its actions in closing the account and loan facility had been taken in line with the applicable 
terms and conditions, and had been justified in the circumstances. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think it was fair for HSBC to have 
restricted his access to the account after it had decided to close it and that despite following 
the banks process to release the balance, HSBC had declined to do so. He still didnt think 
HSBC had been entitled to use the account funds  which he said comprised payments from 
customers and not loan funds  to repay the loan without his consent. He noted that the 
bank hadnt explained its reasons and was concerned that HSBCs decisions had been 
based on his race.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Es account allowed HSBC to suspend its services. HSBC has 
explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. So I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong in restricting Es account while it conducted its review in June 2020.
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from E. That was a decision it 
was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to close the companys 
account by giving 60 days notice. It did that here.
HSBCs review also led it to terminate Es Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. 
Mr E is particularly unhappy that in light of the termination, HSBC applied the funds held 
within Es account to pay down the balance owing on the Bounce Back Loan account. But 
the terms and conditions of the loan gave HSBC the right of set-off  that is, it could use 
money held in any of Es accounts to repay any amounts that the company owed the bank. 
So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in taking this action either, irrespective of the 
source of the funds that remained in the account at the time.
HSBC restricted Es access to the account balance pending its use of the funds in this way. I 
think this was a legitimate and reasonable step, as the bank was ultimately entitled to use 
that money in the way it did. For the same reason, HSBC didnt do anything wrong when 
declining Mr Es request to transfer the funds to another account.
There was a slight delay in arranging this, in that the payment was only made from Es 
account to the loan balance on 13 October 2020 (with the account closed shortly thereafter, 
later than scheduled). But I dont think this prejudiced Es position  as for the reasons Ive 
explained, HSBC was always entitled to retain the funds and apply them to the loan balance.
I appreciate that HSBC actions will be difficult for Mr E to accept, particularly without an 
explanation of its reasons. But the bank isnt required to provide any more detail than it 
already has and I cant fairly require it to do so. I was sorry to see that this led Mr E to fear 
that his race may have been a factor, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that was the case. 
Rather, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that HSBCs decisions were based on its review of 
the account alone, the outcome of which was not linked in any way to his race.
Looking at everything then, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in its review and 
restriction of Es account or in its closure of the account and Bounce Back Loan facility. So 
Im not requiring the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman