DRN-1887676
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly turned down his claim for 
luggage stolen from his hired vehicle. 
What happened
Mr L travelled abroad. While he was away, his luggage was stolen from his vehicle while he 
ate at a restaurant. Mr L made a claim against his travel insurance policy with IPA.
Mr L provided IPA with a police report relating to the theft of his luggage, and photographs of 
the vehicle showing the windows had been smashed. Mr L said the vehicle he was driving 
had a lockable luggage compartment under / behind the seats and this is where his luggage 
had been stored when it was stolen. Mr L said the rear seats of the vehicle had to be lifted 
up to access the luggage compartment.
IPA said it didnt think the luggage Mr L described could have fit in the luggage compartment 
of the vehicle. It said it had looked at an image of the vehicle online to check this. 
IPA said it couldnt continue with Mr Ls claim as it didnt think the way hed stored his 
luggage met the requirements outlined in his policy. It said the policy required the luggage to 
have been stored in a locked dashboard, locked boot or locked luggage compartment of a 
motor vehicle. Mr L disagreed; he said he'd stored his luggage in the luggage compartment 
of the vehicle, which was under the seats. IPA said it didnt think storing luggage under the 
seats met the policy definition of secure baggage area.
Mr L complained to IPA. He said in the type of vehicle hed been driving, the secure luggage 
area is under the seats, and luggage stored there is out of sight. He supplied a photograph 
showing the under-seat luggage storage compartments in that particular type of vehicle.
IPA responded and said it thought it had been correct to decline the claim. It said Mr L had 
told it his luggage had been stored behind or under the seats of the vehicle. And it said the 
policy didnt provide any cover for luggage which had not been stored in a secure baggage 
area.
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. 
IPA provided further information about its stance. It said based on the photograph Mr
L had supplied of the vehicle, it thought the luggage compartments were very small and a 
suitcase couldn't fit in the compartment and be stored out of sight. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said:
Was the luggage stored securely?I reviewed the claim form Mr L submitted to IPA as well as call recordings of conversations 
about the claim which IPA provided. In all of these I found Mr L stated his luggage was 
stored in a luggage compartment in his hired vehicle. He did at times refer to this 
compartment as being behind the seats, but mostly he described it as being under the seats. 
He used these terms interchangeably, but gave detailed explanations to IPA of how the 
seats are lifted up in order to access the luggage compartment. And he provided a 
photograph clearly showing luggage compartments visible on the floor of the vehicle when 
the rear seats are raised. I also noted there are front and rear seats in the type of vehicle Mr 
L was driving, as evidenced by the photographs he provided. And the luggage compartment 
is shown to be under the rear seats, which are behind the front seats of the vehicle. I thought 
this was consistent with the explanation Mr L gave to IPA. So based on this evidence, I was 
persuaded that there were luggage storage compartments beneath the rear seats of Mr Ls 
vehicle.
Mr Ls policy requires that his luggage was locked out of sight in a secure baggage area. As
I said, Mr L provided evidence of the luggage compartment within the vehicle. And provided 
photographs of the vehicle showing blacked-out windows which had been smashed, and a 
police report he obtained at the time of the incident. So I was satisfied Mr L had done 
enough to show that he stored his luggage securely in line with the requirements of his 
policy.
Mr Ls policy defines secure baggage area and I was satisfied the luggage compartment Mr 
L described and provided a photograph of was a locked luggage compartment of a motor 
vehicle. I said this because the luggage compartment is enclosed underneath the rear seats 
of the vehicle and Mr L said it can be locked. I'd been provided with no evidence that the 
luggage compartment wasn't lockable, so I accepted what Mr L said about this, as I found 
the rest of his testimony to be consistent and persuasive.
IPA said it declined Mr Ls claim on the basis he'd said the luggage had been stored under 
the seats of the vehicle  and said the policy didnt provide cover for luggage not stored in a 
secure baggage area. Based on the photographs Id seen of the luggage area under the 
seats of the vehicle which Mr L provided, I thought it improbable that his luggage could have 
been both under the seats and yet also not in the vehicles secure luggage compartment, as 
the luggage compartment is clearly situated under the seats. So I didn't think IPA had 
adequately evidenced that Mr Ls bags were not stored securely as required by his policy.
Could the bags have fit in the luggage compartment?
During its calls with Mr L, IPA questioned how a hard-shell suitcase and rucksack could fit in 
the luggage compartment of the vehicle. IPA said itd looked at a photo of Mr Ls type of 
vehicle online, and said the luggage compartment was too small for these items. Mr L said 
his suitcase was an airline cabin sized carry-on bag and stated that both that and the 
rucksack had fit in the compartments. He questioned whether IPA was looking at the correct 
vehicle model and pointed out that there is more than one type of model available and that 
these can vary by country.
I said I'd been provided with no evidence that IPA sought confirmation that the images of the 
vehicle it sourced correctly matched the interior configuration of the actual vehicle Mr L was 
driving at the time of the theft. And Id also seen no evidence that IPA had attempted to 
obtain the measurements of either the luggage compartments or Mr Ls luggage. Based on 
the evidence IPA provided of the investigation it carried out, I wasn't persuaded that Mr
Ls bags didnt fit within his vehicles luggage compartment.
In summary, I thought Mr L did enough to evidence his claim. And I said if IPA wanted to 
further validate the claim for the stolen luggage, theres more investigation it could have done and further evidence it could have obtained and asked for. On that basis, I thought IPA 
unfairly turned down Mr Ls claim.
The response to my provisional decision
IPA initially said it wanted more time to obtain information from the car hire company Mr L 
used. However, after I clarified this could have been obtained as part of its original 
assessment of Mr Ls claim, IPA confirmed it accepted my provisional decision
Mr L also responded and confirmed he had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IPA accepted my provisional decision, and Mr L had nothing to add, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given it's my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Inter 
Partner Assistance SA to deal with Mr Ls claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. And to pay interest on the claim at 8% simple, from the date it 
originally declined Mr Ls claim, until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman