DRN-2879197
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
cant evidence what happened to a £10,000 deposit that was made in 1986. It considers 
money is still owed. 
The complaint has been brought by the executors of the estate, Mr F and Mrs R.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1986 Mrs F and her husband deposited £10,000 with a firm that Sun Life has since 
acquired liability for. A letter of receipt for the deposit says it was in connection with a 
proposal for/as a premium in respect of a policy on their lives.
Mrs Fs husband passed away in 1989, and in 2019 Mrs F sadly passed away too. At which 
point, her son and daughter (Mr F and Mrs R) came across the receipt for £10,000 and so 
contacted Sun Life asking for details of the policy. 
Sun Life said they couldnt find any details of a policy and so no money was due. They 
explained this was likely because the money had been paid some time ago or as a result of 
premiums not being paid. Sun Life added that all active policies were converted to their 
current mainframe system in 2000 and allocated an 11-digit policy number. And as the policy 
wasnt converted this means it was cancelled some time before 2000.
Mrs R responded to Sun Life in April 2020 saying that after making extensive enquiries with 
her parents banking providers shed found no evidence of the original investment being re-
paid after her fathers passing in 1989. Mrs R noted Sun Life had since uncovered a policy 
number  0251900  and so asked for a copy of the policy. She explained it was their belief 
it was a single premium life assurance investment policy and therefore a lapse in 
contributions wouldnt have applied in this case. Mrs R added that she felt there should be 
more traceability of the investment.
Sun Life acknowledged that theyd found a client record and a policy number but that was as 
much information as they held on file. They explained that a policy can end in several ways 
but they didnt know what the policy taken out was. And that, under data protection rules, a 
company isnt supposed to hold on to information relating to former customers for longer 
than is reasonably relevant after the relationship with the customer has finished. 
Unhappy with this response, a complaint was raised but Sun Life didnt change their 
position. They explained the only information they hold on file for Mrs F is a computer record 
showing her (previous) address. But they reiterated they were unable to find any active 
policies and that in the absence of documentation showing an 11-digit policy number, it 
wasnt active at the time of conversion. Sun Life were satisfied theyd completed a 
comprehensive search and that there were no active policies in Mrs Fs name when records 
were converted in 2000.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think Sun Life had to do anything further. In short, he said:
Businesses should keep records of active policies and are likely to retain them for 
some time after theyve come to an end. But theyre also required to not keep 
information about customers longer than needed.
While he couldnt be certain the policy ended or paid out before 2000, when policies 
converted to Sun Lifes current mainframe system, he thought this was the most 
likely explanation. And he wouldnt expect Sun Life to retain records of an inactive 
policy for over 19 years. 
He noted that Mr F and Mrs R can find no record of this policy paying out and that 
theyd also offered to look through their parents bank statements over the years. But, 
given it is unclear how payments wouldve shown on their bank statements he didnt 
think we could be sure whether it had been paid or not. 
Mr F and Mrs R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wish to firstly pass on my condolences to Mr F and Mrs R as I appreciate that this will have 
been a difficult time for them. And Id like to reassure them that Ive taken everything theyve 
said in to consideration when deciding this complaint. But what I must consider here is 
whether Sun Life owes the estate of Mrs F any monies from the 1986 investment that was 
made. I know this isnt the outcome theyre hoping for but, having done so, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that here. Let me explain why.
It isnt dispute that the £10,000 investment was made in 1986. However, neither party has 
any further details to explain what happened to this money after that. Ive therefore thought 
about what I think is most likely in these circumstances. 
Sun Life has explained that all active policies were converted to their current mainframe 
system in 2000 and allocated an 11-digit policy number. But, while they were able to find a 
client record and an old policy number for Mrs F, Sun Life hasnt found an 11-digit policy 
number. Mr F and Mrs R have been unable to provide this either as they only have a copy of 
the receipt. 
I appreciate Mr F and Mrs Rs frustration that Sun Life dont have details of the policy. And 
theyve suggested that when policies were converted in 2000 there couldve been an 
administrative error resulting in policy records being deleted. While I cant rule that out, I 
think its unlikely to have happened  and theres nothing to support that being the case 
here. I think its more probable that had the policy been active in 2000 then there would be 
some record of it  such as in the form of an annual statement or a letter confirming the 
policy number. 
I also think its relevant that Mr F and Mrs R say their parents kept every piece of paperwork 
as it seems unlikely to me that the only document they received wouldve been the receipt in 
1986. I think its reasonable to assume that they wouldve also received other policy 
documents at the time and further correspondence over the years. And so, I think its 
possible they disposed of other paperwork, as it related to an expired policy, and kept this initial receipt in error. It therefore follows that in the absence of any record of the policy with 
an 11-digit number, I consider it most likely that the policy ended prior to 2000. 
Im aware that Mr F and Mrs R have questioned why Sun Life hold details of their parents 
old address on their systems but nothing else. I understand they consider this to be 
suspicious but, as it has already been explained, businesses arent required to keep 
information indefinitely. Nor are they expected to keep information for longer than needed. 
So, I wouldnt expect Sun Life to retain information about a policy that ended many years 
ago (in this case, most likely pre 2000). Its also not unusual for businesses to retain some 
limited records, such as a client record, beyond the deletion of expired policy information. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Sun Life has attempted to hide anything here. 
Ive noted Mr F and Mrs Rs point that they cant see anything to show the money was paid 
out on their fathers death in 1989. And theyve also further offered to check their parents 
bank statements over the years. Ive considered this but while I agree the receipt suggests 
the policy provided some element of life cover for a single premium, its unclear what the 
exact nature of the policy was. So, if payments were made we dont know when, how much 
for or to what bank account they were paid. And even if Mr F and Mrs R were to check the 
available bank records, theres nothing to evidence it wasnt in fact paid to a different 
account. 
I understand how strongly Mr F and Mrs R feel about this matter and that they both think 
their mother wouldve told them if the policy had paid out when their father died or if the 
policy had been surrendered. But, in the absence of anything to show otherwise, I dont think 
I can fairly conclude that Sun Life owes any money to the estate of Mrs F. I therefore dont 
think they have to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman