DRN-4099829
The complaint
Miss B complains that a used car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMFL) was misrepresented to her. And had it 
not been, she wouldnt have purchased it and she wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss B purchased a used car (costing £16,995.00) from a dealership that I 
will call W. The purchase was funded by an agreement with BMFL.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss B undertook to make 
an advance payment of £1,800.00 followed by 83 monthly payments of £306.85 and 1 
monthly payment of £307.85  making a total repayable of £27,576.40 at an APR of 17.9%.
In early 2023 Miss B tried to sell the car on an online platform administered by a company 
that I will call M.
However, M notified Miss B that it was unable to facilitate a sale (on its platform) because 
one of its checks had identified that the previous owner (to her) had used the car as a taxi.
On being notified of the above Miss B complained to BMFL. She said that when she 
acquired the car neither it (or W) informed her that the car had previously been used as a 
taxi and for this she wanted to be fairly and reasonably compensated. In support of her 
complaint Miss B provided BMFL with a copy of the check undertaken by M. 
In February 2023 BMFL issued Miss B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL BMFL informed Miss B that it wasnt upholding her complaint. 
Unhappy with BMFLs FRL Miss B referred her complaint to our service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary they said that they were satisfied that there had been no 
misrepresentation by BMFL (or W).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter into 
something that they wouldnt have entered into otherwise. And as pointed out by the 
investigator, in very limited circumstances, a misrepresentation can also be an omission of a 
fact. In other words, where something hasnt been said that should have been. 
Miss B accepts that she wasnt advised by BMFL (or W) that the car hadnt previously been 
used as a taxi. Ive also seen a copy of the original advert that also doesnt say that the car 
hadnt previously been used as a taxi. So, Im satisfied that there was no false statement of 
fact by BMFL (or W). So, Ive gone on to consider whether by omitting to say the car had 
previously been used as a taxi constitutes a misrepresentation by BMFL (or W).
Although a dealership might make enquiries into a car before selling it, these checks are for 
its benefit, not the potential purchasers benefit. However, I would expect that anything a 
dealership discovered on making its own checks that might have a bearing on a consumers 
decision to purchase the car in question be shared with them.
Ive looked at the checks undertaken by W (and M). Now its clear that M undertook more, or 
different, checks than W. But that doesnt mean W did anything wrong. And having looked at 
the checks W undertook Im satisfied that these revealed nothing that should have, as a 
matter of fairness, been shared with Miss B about the cars previous use. I would also add 
that when buying something like a car there is an expectation that the buyer makes their own 
enquiries to satisfy themselves of the cars history and price, especially when the 
advertisement says:
Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information [contained in this 
advert]. However, errors may occur.
I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed, especially given that she has since sold the car for 
less than she was hoping for. But Im satisfied, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
that there has been no misrepresentation by BMFL (or W).
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman