DRN-1592355
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was designed to help protect Mrs Cs monthly credit card repayments if she couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs C says RBS told her she had to have the PPI if she wanted the credit card. But, 
based on a copy of Mrs Cs signed credit card application form, I think RBS made it 
clear that the PPI was a separate and optional product and that she nevertheless 
chose to take it out.  
From experience of RBS sales generally and what Ive seen in this case, I dont 
believe RBS recommended the PPI to Mrs C. So, it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong, especially as she was 
only entitled to limited sick pay and redundancy pay. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman