DRN-4246194
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has decided not to refund him after he was the 
victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Mr K says he received a cold call from a company Ill refer to as P, followed by a letter, 
offering assistance in recovering funds that hed lost in an investment some years earlier. 
But this turned out to be a scam. 
He was told his initial investment of £25,000 was not lost, as hed previously thought, and 
was now worth approximately £90,000. The scammers explained his money was being held 
in escrow and P could help to recover and return this to Mr K. 
Mr K made payments from other accounts and using other sources of funds. This complaint 
relates to his losses from his HSBC account.
Mr K made several payments across April and May 2022, totalling £21,018.56 of which 
£10,221.86 was recovered.  His remaining losses from his HSBC account total 
approximately £10,796.70. The payments related to various fees and commissions that the 
scammers said were needed to release his investment funds.
Mr K said he researched P and found them on Companies House. He said P didnt have a 
website but there were no other red flags when looking online. He went on to receive various 
documents from P for the payments, some of which he was told would be refundable when 
his investment profits were released. 
Mr K said, when trying to contact P, after he was told his money would be released to him, 
he couldnt reach them and so he thought it could be a scam. He says it was at this point he 
checked the address on the letters and invoices hed received and realised the address was 
for a different registered company.
HSBC looked into the matter. It said Mr K made payments on three dates in April and then 
reported those as scam payments on 1 May 2022. He then made two further payments to 
the different payees, but part of the same recovery of funds scam involving the company P, 
on 13 May 2022. He then went on to report those as scam payments on 14 May 2022. 
HSBC said in its final response that Mr K was given warnings when he made the payments. 
But Mr K confirmed that when making the payments he chose the incorrect payment reason 
to avoid the banks fraud detection system. HSBC said if Mr K had selected the correct 
reason for the payments he would have been warned about cold calls and the promise of 
guaranteed returns and to check the company was genuine and authorised by the FCA. It 
said Mr K acted without making precautionary checks. HSBC offered £100 in compensation 
for the way in which its decision was communicated with Mr K.
One of our investigators looked into things. She felt Mr Ks losses werent covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as Mr K had already received full 
reimbursement for his losses relating to the original investment. So, he couldnt have thought 
there was a genuine claim for the money that P was claiming to return to him. 
She also said that even if the bank had intervened, she didnt think it would have made a 
difference. Mr K reported the first three payments as part of a scam and then continued to 
make further payments after this date. In between the two sets of payments Mr K made 
payments from another bank account held elsewhere and he continued to make payments 
even after he reported P as a scam to both HSBC and his other bank. 
She also considered that Mr K was advised the previous year about recovery scams by a 
different bank, and he said he would change his telephone number and not continue to make 
payments. She went on to say Mr K didnt select the correct payment reason when carrying 
out these transactions and came up with a cover story with a different bank when he did the 
same thing. He came up with a cover story about the payments being for building work. And 
he moved funds to his HSBC account to avoid the blocks that had been placed on his 
account, by his other bank account provider.
Mr K was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He 
said HSBC approved the account names and numbers when he made the payments and he 
therefore assumed they were safe. Mr Ks representatives also added that it thought the 
payments were covered by the CRM code and Mr K had a reasonable basis of belief 
because the scammers were convincing and appeared to be a clone of a legitimate firm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not recommending that Mr K receive a refund for his losses from HSBC. Ill go on to 
explain why HSBC doesnt need to refund Mr K in this instance. 
I disagree with the investigators initial finding that Mr Ks payments are not covered by the 
CRM code as I believe they are. I think even if Mr K had been refunded his losses from the 
initial investment from his bank, its possible he could still seek to recover his initial funds 
and any returns made on those funds. So, I dont think there is an issue with Mr K believing 
the payments were for a legitimate purpose but were in fact fraudulent. And the payments 
are covered by the CRM code.
But I do agree with the investigators finding that HSBC isnt liable to refund Mr K under the 
CRM code. She said, and I agree, that better intervention by HSBC wouldnt have made a 
difference. Ill explain why in more detail.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis of belief when making these payments?
Ive started by considering whether Mr K had a reasonable basis of belief when deciding to 
make these payments. 
Having considered Mr Ks actions at the time he made these payments, his previous scam 
claims, all the correspondence hes provided and the banks notes, Im satisfied that Mr K 
was or ought reasonably to have known he wasnt going to recover the funds he originally 
invested. Each time he appears to have been scammed, hes told his initial investment is a 
different amount (far larger than his initial investment) and given a range of different reasons 
why he needed to pay varying amounts, in order to access his funds. And he had been told 
and seems aware that all the previous recovery attempts were in fact scams. Mr K says he lost an initial £25,000 to an investment in 2018. But Mr K also spent around 
£106,000 in 2019 and 2020 falling for recovery scams, most of which his banks have 
refunded. And in this particular scam, Mr K spent approximately a further £58,000 across 
April and May 2022. Overall, I havent seen any real difference in the scams that Mr K fell 
victim to previously and this one where he was contacted by P. Mr K hasnt said or shown 
any convincing evidence to support why P was genuine given the plethora of warnings and 
advice, hed been given, about proceeding with caution with any company claiming to 
recover his lost investment funds. 
It appears that Mr K fell victim to the exact same scam twice before, with payments from a 
different bank account, in the two years prior to this one. Mr K received partial and, in some 
instances, full refunds for the payments he made. Mr K also seems to have been aware that 
he was scammed on those occasions. And was given at least some advice to be on the 
look-out for these types of scams in the future. But when P contacted him, I cant see that he 
did anything more than check Companies House to see if it was a registered business. And 
when he received the paperwork from P, he doesnt appear to have noticed the address is 
different to that on Companies House, something that he did realise after he thought hed 
been scammed. 
Given that Mr K had been scammed at least twice before, it would be reasonable for him to 
have made further checks and enquiries before deciding to part with such large sums of 
money, based on a cold call and a few invoices. In light of this, Im not persuaded Mr K had 
a reasonable basis of belief, that he was dealing with a genuine company, attempting to 
recover his investment funds. 
Did HSBC meet its standards under the CRM code?
I cant see that HSBC intervened with any of the payments that Mr K made as part of this 
scam. There is an argument that it ought to have done given the account activity, particularly 
after he reports the first set of payments as being part of a scam and the goes on to make 
payments of £5,000 and over, just a few weeks later. However, I dont think better warnings 
or intervention by HSBC would have made a difference here and there is extensive and 
convincing evidence to support this finding. 
Mr K has fallen victim to several recovery fund scams across a number of years. At each 
juncture, he was given warnings about scammers targeting him, with promises of recovery. 
From the correspondence Mr K has provided, I can see he was advised that companies 
asking for money upfront in this way, were very likely to be a scam. That he should proceed 
with extreme caution and that he was likely to be targeted by scammers because of the 
initial investment money he lost. Mr K doesnt appear to have heeded those warnings from, 
the Police, FCA, Insolvency service, liquidators or indeed from HSBC and his other bank 
account providers.
Mr K had a call with his different bank account provider at the time it refunded his losses 
from a previous scam in 2020. During that call Mr K acknowledges the scam was 
sophisticated and that he would proceed with caution going forward. The bank agent says if 
ever hes unsure he can go online and check the FCA website, and he can always call the 
bank and they can go through it with him. Mr K goes on to say If Im going to make any sort 
of payment Ill check with you. The bank agent also explains that if this sort of scam 
happens again the bank might not be in a position to refund him, but he should never think 
twice about calling the bank if he needs help.
I have also listened to the calls where Mr K is attempting a further payment as part of this 
scam (on the 11th May 2022), which is ultimately blocked by his different bank account 
provider. I can hear Mr K is frustrated that his payment has been blocked and he tells the bank agent that they should be working in his interests and allow him to make the payment. 
As the agent wasnt satisfied with Mr Ks responses, she explained that he would need to go 
to a branch to complete some further checks. Mr K was unhappy with this response and said 
hed transfer the money to his account held at a different bank. Which he then did by 
transferring to his HSBC account and on to the scammers from there.
But I am satisfied from both Mr Ks explanation of the events, both in handling his complaints 
and when he reported the scam  that he would have and did proceed with the payments 
regardless of the actions of HSBC (and his other banks). And so overall I dont think better or 
different intervention would have made a difference. Mr K was determined to make the 
payments, he acknowledged there was at least some risk in that decision and decided to go 
ahead regardless. Because of that I cant say that HSBC needs to refund Mr K. 
In his calls with both HSBC and his other banks, when reporting and discussing the scam, 
Mr K admits it was like taking a gamble. He said he made some of the payments because 
P had promised they were refundable, although he had no way of confirming this. And he 
said he always had the niggling doubt in the back of his mind, but he was looking at the 
bigger picture and what he was going to gain (the returns he was promised). I have also 
seen that Mr K reported some payments to P as a scam (to a different bank account 
provider) and then continued to make payments to P. So, Id go so far as to say Mr K 
understood the scam risk and would have (and did) go ahead regardless of what HSBC (and 
his other banks) did or said. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ks personal circumstances. In conversations with HSBC and his 
other bank account providers that this has been questioned and carefully considered. And 
having done so I cant see any other reason why Mr K should receive a refund under the 
CRM Code. 
Recovery of funds
I can see that HSBC did make attempts to recover Mr Ks funds after he reported the scam. 
Some of those funds were recovered and this have been returned to Mr K. 
Once it was made aware of the scam, Im satisfied that HSBC did what it could to recover Mr 
Ks money. So it wasnt responsible for Mr Ks losses at this point.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman