DRN-3133536
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to send him a passcode 
which meant he was unable to make a payment to a trading investment account.
What happened
Mr L says he tried to make a payment on 3 March 2021 at about 14.30 to a trading 
company. He says he needed to make an immediate payment of £4,000 to his trading 
account but Halifax failed to send him a One Time Passcode (OTP) which meant he couldnt 
fund his account. Mr L says that failure to either send him the OTP or tell him the system 
failed meant he lost just over £7,000. He would like Halifax to compensate him for that loss 
and says the trading company froze his account due to the attempts to fund his account. Mr 
L says he eventually spoke to Halifax at about 15.10 by which it was too late and Halifax 
ought to have a system in place to tell customers that an OTP has failed.
Halifax says it has apologised for the delay in speaking to it and has paid £36 for Mr Ls call 
costs and £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. It says there was a problem 
that day with the OTP. Halifax says the payment was made at 15.10 on 3 March 2021 but 
the merchant didnt take the payment immediately.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions made clear that a payment may take up to two 
hours to process or could be made the following day. The investigator thought the payment 
had been authorised shortly after Mr L made the attempt himself. And thought overall the 
compensation payment was appropriate.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and says Halifax ought to have a system in place to 
communicate with its customers. He says if it had told him about the OTP problem then he 
could have taken steps to make the payment and avoid the loss. Mr L says he received 
information from the trading company that he needed to fund his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
this complaint having listened to the call between him and the investigator.
There is no real dispute here that Mr L tried to make the payment at about 14.30 on 3 March 
2021. And there is no dispute that the OTP failed that day. I appreciate Mr L says that 
Halifaxs process failed that day and it ought to have a system in place to avoid this sort of 
problem. I hope Mr L appreciates that we are not Halifaxs regulator and so its not our role 
to direct or order it to put systems in place in these circumstances. And it is not Halifax that 
is responsible for the OTP system, but it is run by the card providers. 
I have looked at Mr Ls account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions say that a payment may 
take up to two hours to reach a recipients account. So, Im satisfied that even if the OTP 
system was working then Halifax wouldnt have made a mistake or acted unfairly if the 
payment wasnt immediately made.
I appreciate that Mr Ls main complaint point is that if Halifax told him there was a problem 
then he could have made the payment sooner and avoided the repeated transaction 
attempts which meant his trading account was blocked. I have made clear that its up to 
Halifax when exercising its commercial judgement to decide if such a system is possible and 
if it wishes to implement one. And Im satisfied that Mr L spoke to Halifax at 15.10 and the 
transaction was approved. I find that is in line with the account terms and conditions and was 
not an unreasonable length of time after the initial payment attempt at 14.30 that day.
I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for what then took place which is Mr Ls trading 
company placing a block on his account. I think it unlikely Mr L was aware of that possibility 
as I dont think he would have attempted the transaction again. He will need to speak to that 
company about its actions in any event and how long it took to take the payment that was 
authorised some 40 minutes after the attempt by Mr L to make it. In any event I make clear 
that even if I thought Halifax responsible for the losses Mr L says he suffered I have not seen 
documentary evidence from either Mr L or the trading company about the loss.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has explained what took place and has paid what I think is 
a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I accept Mr L is unlikely to accept my decision 
and find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman