DRN-4121517
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G had a current account with HSBC. He had an overdraft limit of £5,000. On 28 October
2017, he applied for a loan of £25,000, payable over 98 months  for home improvements.
The loan was approved and drawndown on 29 October 2017. Monthly repayments were
£338.37. In the following few days, most of the proceeds of the loan was paid to online
gambling websites. In October 2018, Mr G repaid the loan and took out a similar loan with
another lender.
Mr G complained. He said HSBC shouldnt have given him the loan. He was prone to bouts
of extreme gambling and drinking and had told HSBC that. His current account also showed
the extent of his gambling. He said he lied about the purpose of the loan to get it  that was
a sign of his addiction.
HSBC said Mr G passed all their credit checks. Mr G was assessed to be creditworthy and a
good customer. There were no concerns about affordability. And  he made the repayments
after the loan was provided up until it was transferred. So  that showed he was able to
make the payments. HSBC said they had no record of having been advised of Mr Gs
gambling addiction. There was no indication that the loan would not be used for home
improvements.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC didnt complete proportionate
checks when they agreed the loan. He said HSBC shouldve taken more steps to build a
more detailed picture of Mr Gs financial situation, including a credit search. But he couldnt
see that had been done. He said that in the days leading up to the loan application, there
had been gambling transactions and Mr Gs current account went into overdraft. He said any
negative information should be removed from Mr Gs credit file. And interest paid on the loan
should be refunded.
HSBC didnt agree. They described the checks theyd completed when agreeing to the loan.
These included data from credit reference agencies  which showed Mr G had no
bankruptcies, CCJs, or defaults on his credit file. He had seven other credit agreements, with
none opened in the previous six months. All were paid up to date regularly. Mr G passed
HSBCs credit score - which placed him in the top 10% of scores. HSBC said Mr Gs
assessed potential to default was very low. Mr G maintained a current account in credit and
the overdraft was repaid within two days of it occurring in October 2017.
Mr G agreed with our investigators view but asked that the interest paid to the new lender
was also refunded; and he asked that the loan be written off.
So  the complaint has come to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that HSBC lent to him irresponsibly. In deciding whether a
customer was provided with unaffordable credit or provided with credit irresponsibly, the
principles that firms must follow are laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  as
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. In looking at those, we need to consider:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a
fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed, would reasonable and
proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that the borrower was more
likely than not unable to sustainably repay what they were being lent?
Was there a point where the lender ought reasonably to have realised it was
increasing the borrowers indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I looked at the credit checks that HSBC completed. And they did complete risk assessment
and affordability checks. They used a range of information including their internal data (from
Mr Gs current account) and from external credit reference agencies. Mr G was found to
have no adverse data, no delinquency on other credit agreements, and he passed HSBCs
credit score thresholds easily. HSBC gave further detail of their assessment during our
investigation and this showed Mr Gs likelihood of defaulting was less than 0.01% - so in 
other words, he was seen as a good risk to lend to.
HSBC also looked at Mr Gs current account and saw he remained in credit, other than for
eight days in July 2017. And then  he was within his overdraft limit of £5,000. There was a
regular monthly salary of £2,900 going into the account. They worked out Mr Gs monthly
disposable income as £1,675  which was enough to meet the loan payments of £338.37.
Having looked at HSBCs checks, I think they fulfilled their obligations under the FCAs
guidelines and completed the necessary and proportionate checks.
Mr G provided his credit report to us and I looked at it. It showed that Mr G had seven other
credit agreements at the time  credit cards and current accounts. All credit agreements had
been paid on time, with no missed payments. So  that confirmed the data that HSBC
reported as part of their checks. And  this showed that Mr G was paying his way and
meeting his commitments.
I then looked at Mr Gs current account statements. Mr G says his gambling payments
shouldve been seen by HSBC and caused them to ask further questions. I can see he paid
approximately £14,600 to online gambling firms between March 2017 and May 2017  i.e.
over three months. But equally, he maintained his account in credit during that period. The
credit balance was around £3,000 to £4,000 during that time. And throughout 2017, the
credit balance averaged around £4,000 to £5,000. I can see that there were several regular
and large transfers into the current account  which enabled the gambling payments to be
met. But  so as far as HSBC were concerned, I think it was reasonable for them to
conclude that Mr G could afford to pay for the gambling and other commitments.After that period, Mr G did not make any gambling payments from his current account. His
account remained in credit (other than for eight days in July 2017  when the maximum
overdraft was only £112 debit, and well within the overdraft limit). And then, on 24 October
2017  he made payments of £3,000 to online gambling firms. This created an overdraft of
£3,179. Ive considered whether, in the round, HSBC shouldve been concerned by this.
And I dont think they should  Mr Gs account had been run very well  at least since
November 2016 (the earliest statements Ive seen). And on the face of it, he could afford all
his outgoings, including the gambling payments. I also dont think its reasonable to expect
HSBC to have been concerned about some payments which were made four days before
the loan application. I can also see that after four days, the balance on Mr Gs account
returned to over £10,000 credit - on the day before the loan was drawn. So  if HSBC had
been concerned by the four days of overdraft, I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to
conclude that Mr Gs account had returned to its normal pattern of working.
Mr G has said he lied to HSBC about the purpose of the loan  which he stated was for
home improvements. But  I can see that he made five payments to builders and electricians
in the period between June 2017 and October 2017. So when HSBC looked at his current
account, it would have been reasonable for them to conclude the loan was for home
improvements.
Mr G says he told HSBC about his gambling. I asked HSBC specifically about that. We
asked HSBC to look at their customer records for Mr G again  which they did. And they told
us that Mr Gs records dont show that Mr G told them about his gambling. If there was such
evidence, we wouldve expected them to take that into account  but there isnt.
I can see that in the few days after Mr G drew down the loan from HSBC he spent the
money with gambling firms. I was sorry to see that and the effect it must have had on Mr G
and his family. But I have reviewed Mr Gs complaint and considered what happened here 
and I think HSBC did complete proportionate and sufficient credit checks. And  even though
there was some evidence of gambling in a three-month period earlier in 2017  I can see
that Mr G could afford this through his salary and transfers into the current account  so it
was reasonable for HSBC to consider that Mr G could afford his outgoings.
My role is to come to a balanced decision based on the evidence Ive seen from both parties
to the complaint  and thats what Ive done here. I know Mr G will be disappointed by my
provisional decision - which is that I dont intend that HSBC need to take any action here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither HSBC nor Mr G responded with any comments.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr G nor HSBC had any comments, my final decision is in line with the 
provisional decision - which is that I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman