DRN-3423586
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly registered a default against him.
What happened
Mr O was accepted for a personal loan with Sainsburys. He says that through no fault of his 
own, he missed the first direct debit payment. He said that he tried to contact Sainsburys on 
a number of occasions to resolve the first payment issue. 
Mr O says that he has been overpaying his contractual monthly repayment to resolve the 
first payment issue and hes made manual payments to keep up to date with his payments, 
but Sainsburys registered a default on his credit file.
Mr O says that he didnt realise this had happened until he applied for a mortgage and the 
information came to light. The default is affecting his ability to obtain a mortgage. Mr O made 
a complaint to Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys did not uphold Mr Os complaint. They said his loan first went into arrears in 
September 2019, when Mr Os payment was returned unpaid to his bank. Sainsburys said 
they spoke to Mr O about this on 9 October 2019, and they said Mr O told them he would get 
in touch with his bank and then contact Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys said that despite them sending Mr O letters about the arrears status of the loan, 
they didnt hear anything further from Mr O. Sainsburys said that a second payment was 
returned unpaid from Mr Os bank in November 2019, by which time his account was already 
two months in arrears. As the arrears remained unpaid, Sainsburys sent Mr O a notice of 
default dated 6 December 2019, which explained how much Mr O needed to pay by 2 
January 2020, or the account would default. As Mr O did not contact them before this date or 
pay his arrears by this date then the account defaulted.
In response to Mr O saying he called Sainsburys, they said that their records showed that 
Mr O had contacted them only once - on 4 March 2021, to set up a payment arrangement. 
Mr O brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Os complaint. She said Sainsburys sent him all of the 
correct payment reminders and issued him with a default notice. She said it was reasonable 
for Sainsburys to register the default due to the arrears not being cleared.
Mr O asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said at the point of being 
accepted for the loan, he was going through a lot of personal issues and he had to move to 
another address for a period of time, however, he was still collecting his post. He said he can 
categorically say that he received no letters from Sainsburys about the payment not going 
through. He said that even though he has paid off the loan in full now, there is still a default 
registered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr O has said the way the default is continuing to be reported to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) is incorrect, as it displays on his credit file as if a default is reported every 
month. Our investigator has explained to Mr O that we can only look into the complaint he 
originally brought to us. So we cant consider the way that Sainsburys are reporting this 
now, as this is a separate issue he has brought to us after he brought his complaint to our 
service. If he hasnt done so already, hell need to register a complaint with Sainsburys on 
this point first, before he brings the complaint to our service if he is not satisfied with the 
outcome of this. But here, I will be focusing on if Sainsburys were fair to register a default 
from January 2020.
Sainsburys have a duty to accurately report payment history to the CRAs. Mr O first missed 
a payment in September 2019. Sainsburys spoke to Mr O about this and the system notes 
state that Mr O was unaware that he had missed a payment and he would check this with his 
bank and call Sainsburys back. So Im satisfied that Mr O was made aware on 9 October 
that he had missed a payment, but there are no records to show he rang back until 4 March 
2021  over a year after his account had already defaulted. 
Sainsburys have also provided our service evidence that they also sent two text messages 
to Mr O on 22 October and 25 October 2019  after he spoke to them on 9 October. The 
mobile number they sent them to is the same mobile number Mr O provided to our service. 
The first message warns him that Sainsburys had not been able to collect the direct debit 
from his bank and for him to check with his bank. The message informed him he could 
transfer money from another bank if he needed to make a one off payment and to contact 
them if he was worried about his finances. The second text message informs him he has 
another payment due on his loan and the message displays their telephone number to 
contact them if hes having money worries.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr O attempted to contact Sainsburys again until 2021, despite 
the phone call he had with them on 9 October, where he was informed the September direct 
debit was missed. It appears he made no contact with Sainsburys after they had also sent 
him two text messages, so Im persuaded that Sainsburys were left with no other choice but 
to report the missed payment/arrears to the CRAs and send arrears notices and ultimately a 
notice of default when Mr O did not clear the arrears from his September and November 
2019 missed payments in a timely manner.
I can see from the December 2019 payment, it appears that Mr O managed to make his 
monthly repayment. But he had already built up arrears by this point which dont appear to 
start to be paid until Mr O makes a payment arrangement with Sainsburys in 2021, long 
after the account had defaulted.
Ive looked at the correspondence Sainsburys say theyve sent Mr O. While Mr O says he 
can categorically say he never received any of these letters, Im satisfied that Sainsburys 
have sent these letters. They are sent to the same address as the address displayed on the 
credit agreement he signed with Sainsburys. If Mr O was living at a different address at the 
time, he should have contacted Sainsburys to inform them of this, as he was required to do so based on his terms and conditions of the loan he agreed to. This would have ensured he 
got these letters direct to himself at the address he was residing in at the time. 
So I cant hold Sainsburys responsible if Mr O did not receive these letters due to any 
problems with the postal system or him not living at that address at the time. Sainsburys are 
required to send certain correspondence such as default notices by post to the registered 
address by the regulator. So they wouldnt be able to send these documents via an 
alternative method, such as an email address, even if this would be a customers preferred 
method of contact. 
Sainsburys have a duty of care to register defaults in line with the Information 
Commissioners Office guidance. This guidance sets out what is expected of a lender. As a 
general guide, a default may occur when a customer is three months in arrears and normally 
by the time someone is six months in arrears. As Mr O missed his September payment, he 
was more than three months in arrears when the default was registered. So I cant say that 
Sainsburys have done anything wrong by informing him they registered a default in January 
2020.
In summary, Sainsburys fulfilled their regulatory duty by sending Mr O arrears notices and a 
default of notice to his registered address and registered a default after the arrears were not 
cleared by the date in the notice of default letter. Ive read what Mr O has said about the 
impact the default is having on his ability to get a mortgage and I truly have sympathy with 
his situation. But as Sainsburys did not make an error in reporting a default to the CRAs 
when he was in arrears for over three months, I cant ask them to remove it. So it follows I 
dont require Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman