DRN-3754361
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) cancelled her policy without refunding her 
premiums. 
What happened
In 2008 Miss N took out an income protection policy underwritten by ReAssure. The policy 
provided cover if she was unable to work due to an illness or injury. It also entitled her to a 
loyalty benefit if the policy was still in force on the loyalty benefit date of 4 January 2028. 
In 2020 Miss N was unhappy with how a claim shed made had been handled. She 
complained and decided she no longer wanted a policy with ReAssure. She contacted them 
to ask them to refund her premiums, minus any claims paid and cancel her policy. But this 
didnt happen. ReAssure cancelled the policy without refunding any premiums. So she 
raised another complaint.  
ReAssure said they cancelled the policy following Miss Ns request, but she wasnt
entitled to a refund of premiums under the terms of her policy. They said they had made her 
aware of the option to reinstate the policy if shed changed her mind, but Miss N had chosen 
not to do this. 
Miss N referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator said her complaint about the 
handling of her claim had been referred to our service outside the time limits we must apply. 
But we were able to consider the cancellation of the policy. The investigator looked at what 
happened and concluded ReAssure hadnt acted unfairly when they cancelled the policy. 
Miss N disagreed. In summary she said: 
Shed clearly asked ReAssure to refund her premium minus any claims, and then 
cancel the policy. At no point did she ask them to just cancel the policy.
ReAssure stopped the collection of her premiums  it wasnt her doing. So she sent a 
letter back to ReAssure regarding the direct debit saying that as they had cancelled 
it, they should take responsibility for sorting it. 
There were countless phone calls regarding the cancellation of the policy  she 
wanted us to listen to them. 
So I need to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded ReAssure acted unfairly or outside the policy terms. Ill 
explain why. 
Miss N has requested we listen to the calls regarding the cancellation of the policy. Ive 
taken account of the call log history and call notes, alongside the written correspondence 
between the parties. But its not in dispute that Miss N asked Reassure to refund her 
premiums minus any claims because she was unhappy and no longer wanted a policy with 
them. And shed requested her cancellation options. 
What remains is if it was reasonable for Reassure to act upon on this and cancel the policy 
without returning any premiums.  So Ive considered ReAssures actions and if Miss N was 
entitled to a refund of premiums.
Was it reasonable for ReAssure to cancel the policy? 
On balance, Im persuaded it was reasonable for ReAssure to interpret Miss Ns request to 
refund her premiums minus any claims, as a request to cancel her policy. She had made it 
clear she was unhappy being a customer of ReAssure, and also asked for the cancellation 
options. ReAssure told her the relevant contact details to process a cancellation request. 
Taking all this together I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to then process the 
cancellation request in line with the policy terms. 
Im also mindful that when the policy was cancelled, ReAssure did give Miss N the option to 
reinstate the policy if she changed her mind and still wanted - but she didnt act upon this 
offer. She said as it was ReAssure that had cancelled the collection of her premiums, she 
told them to sort it out. But I dont think was reasonable. 
Reassure clearly set out what Miss N would need to do in order to reinstate the policy  this 
included completing a direct debit mandate and paying the missed premiums within 12 
months of the first unpaid premium, otherwise the reinstatement wouldnt be possible. 
Although she told ReAssure to sort out the direct debit form, I havent seen any evidence 
she made attempt to pay the missed premiums. So I think it was reasonable ReAssure didnt 
reinstate the policy when Miss N had just told them to sort it out. 
Was Miss N entitled to a refund of premiums at the point the policy was cancelled? 
The cancellation terms state: 
You can cancel this Policy at any time. If you cancel within 30 days of receiving the Policy 
Schedule you will be entitled to a full refund of any premiums paid up to that time. If the 
Policy is cancelled after the 30-day cancellation period, there will be no refund of premiums 
paid.
Im satisfied there isnt any provision under the policy terms that entitles Miss N to a refund 
of premiums minus any claims paid at the point her policy ended.  
Miss N has said she was due to receive these funds back anyway due to the loyalty benefit. 
The terms for the loyalty benefit under the policy state: 
If you pay the required premium each month until the Loyalty Benefit Date stated in the 
Policy Schedule, then at the end of that period, we will pay the Loyalty Benefit described in 
the Policy Schedule (if any). If you stop paying premiums at any earlier date, then no Loyalty 
Benefit is payable.
But Miss Ns policy ended in 2020 and she wouldnt have qualified for this benefit until 2028, 
so I dont think thats a relevant consideration here due to the remaining passage of time 
until the benefit wouldve kicked in. I think it was unreasonable to expect ReAssure to have 
offered this benefit to Miss N eight years in advance and outside the policy terms. 
I do understand Miss N wanted ReAssure to first refund her before cancelling the policy. But  
that isnt how insurance policies work, so Im unable to fairly to say this is something she 
should be entitled to. And Ive explained above why I dont think she was eligible for the 
loyalty benefit at the point the policy ended. 
In summary, I dont think ReAssure acted unreasonably when they cancelled the policy in 
line with the terms and conditions. And I think they fairly offered to reinstate the policy within 
a reasonable timeframe, so I dont think they need to do anything further.Miss N had the benefit of cover under the policy for 12 years, so I dont think it would be fair 
to ask ReAssure to return her premiums for that period, outside the policy terms 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman