DRN-2301651
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that the loan he took out with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post 
Office Financial Services (the Post Office) was at an annual rate of 11.9%. Mr P thinks he 
was misled and would like the Post Office to reduce the rate.
What happened
Mr P saw a Post Office loan advertised on an app with a low APR of around 3%. He then 
received an email from the Post Office, advertising a loan with a similarly low APR. When he 
applied for the loan, he was given an APR of 11.9%, which he accepted.
Mr P says that due to difficult personal circumstances and because he found the information 
confusing, he didnt realise the 11.9% rate was yearly, so ended up paying much more than 
hed expected. He thought this was excessive and that hed been misinformed and taken 
advantage of during a difficult time in his life.
Mr P complained to the Post Office and asked it to reduce the interest rate on his loan.
The Post Office didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, saying that it had given clear information 
about the interest rate. Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his case to this service.
Our investigator thought the information Mr P was given was clear and didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr P has asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman, so it has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the email sent to Mr P and can see that it quotes an APR of 3.1% as part of 
an initial quote. But it does also state that that the monthly repayment and APR are subject 
to change based on the outcome of a full application, so it did indicate that Mr P was not 
necessarily going to get a loan at that rate.
When Mr P applied for the loan, he was offered an APR of 11.9% and he says that he 
understood and accepted this. But he also says that he didnt realise this was an annual 
rate, so he didnt expect to have to pay as much interest as he did. 
I understand that the APR is a technical term which is not always understood, but it is the 
way that lenders are required to describe their rates. Our investigator explained that APR, or 
Annual Percentage Rate, is intended to represent the yearly cost to a customer of borrowing 
the funds over the term of the loan. So even if Mr P had been offered a rate of 3%, this 
wouldve been 3% each year for the duration of the loan.
Although Mr P may not have understood the implications of the APR or the interest rate, 
there is other information in the loan agreement that explains how much interest is payable. I 
can see the agreement states that the 11.9% is a fixed rate so the rate would remain the 
same over the period of the loan. I can also see that the total charge for credit is shown, so a 
figure showing the total charges payable over the term of the loan is set out in the 
agreement too. All of this means its difficult for me to say that the Post Office didnt give Mr 
P clear information around what he was agreeing to and what the applicable interest would 
be.
Mr P has explained his personal difficulties at the time he was applying for the loan, 
including the ill health of his wife and other family members. I can understand that this must 
have caused Mr P considerable stress and could have led to him misunderstanding the 
terms of the loan he was signing up for. But I havent seen anything to suggest that he was 
misled by the Post Office. So it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it that it needs to change the 
rate in the way Mr P wants.
I note that the Post Office has encouraged Mr P to discuss his financial position with it if he 
is in financial difficulty and has also drawn his attention to free to use debt advice 
organisations. I would recommend that Mr P consider this advice if he feels it is appropriate.
   
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope he can understand my 
reasoning.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman