The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC continued to record a default for her credit and 
current accounts on her credit file despite six years having passed.
What happened
Ms H held a number of accounts with Lloyds, which defaulted. This led to adverse 
information being recorded on her credit file  although these entries were supposed to clear 
her credit file in 2017. Since then though, even though Lloyds said it had removed the 
information about Ms Hs accounts from her credit file, adverse information continued to 
reappear.  
Ms H wasnt happy that Lloyds was continuing to report adverse information to credit 
reference agencies even though six years had lapsed. So, she complained.
After Lloyds investigated Ms Hs concerns it upheld her complaint. It accepted it was 
incorrectly reporting her accounts on her credit file as having defaulted. But it said this was 
due to a re-reporting issue affecting Ms H's customer profile. And it confirmed it was trying 
its best to resolve the problem and would continue to manually remove the entry each 
month.
But Ms H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint. She felt it should 
permanently remove the adverse credit information that was continuing to appear on her 
credit file. And she didnt think it was doing enough to resolve this problem. So, she referred 
her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence Ms H and Lloyds had provided and recommended 
upholding this complaint. They thought Lloyds was making genuine efforts to remedy the 
issues affecting Ms H. But they recognised she had been affected by what had happened for 
an extended period of time. And they recommended that Lloyds pay her £200 compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience she'd been caused. Lloyds accepted the outcome 
of this complaint. But Ms H disagreed with the amount of compensation our investigator 
recommended and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Ms H and Lloyds that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
DRN-1307326dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that Ms H experienced with her credit file. I understand 
that shes been suffering from ill health for some time. And I can see the issues shes 
complained about have been ongoing since 2018  although Im pleased to see the problem 
has now been resolved by Lloyds. 
I want to acknowledge at the outset the distress and inconvenience I've no doubt Ms H was 
caused by what happened. Her credit file was impacted and that was unfair. The information 
shouldnt have re-appeared and this wasnt her fault.
Lloyds told our service re-reporting is a known issue it has to contend with for many 
customers - including Ms H. In order to resolve this problem it has a practice of monitoring 
credit file amendments. And it will manually amend a credit file affected by a  re-reporting 
issue.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded Lloyds investigated the error that was 
causing Ms Hs adverse credit information to reappear on her credit file. I can see it wasnt 
able to offer a permanent fix initially to what was happening. But I do think it used its best 
endeavours to restore Ms H to the position shed have been in had the information not re-
reported. I say this because Im satisfied it put measures in place to ensure her credit file 
was regularly monitored and any entries that reappear were flagged.
I've seen evidence that Lloyds would manually amend Ms Hs credit file each time if re-
reporting had taken place. Because it was monitoring her credit file closely it took efforts to 
remove the entries as soon as they reappeared. I appreciate that Ms H doesnt think Lloyds 
actions went far enough. But, due to the nature of the problem affecting Ms H, this was the 
only action Lloyds was able to take. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds took positive and appropriate action in trying to 
assist Ms H here. It tried its best to prevent the adverse information re-reporting. And, when 
it couldn't stop the re-reporting issue, it took the action our service would expect in manually 
removing the information that had reappeared on Ms H's credit file. While Ms H may 
disagree with me, Im not persuaded theres more Lloyds could have done here.
I understand Lloyds has now resolved the error affecting Ms H. However, I can understand 
her concerns that the information may re-report in the future  especially given the 
established history of that happening. In the event that the information re-reports all I can 
ask Lloyds to do is to try its best to resolve the issues affecting Ms H as its already done. I 
can see our investigator has explained we arent the regulators. So, we cant tell Lloyds how 
to run its business or make specific changes in this regard. 
It was unfair that Ms H had to worry about the status of her credit file  particularly for the 
length of time over which this problem persisted. To recognise the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced in relation to the impact the re-reporting caused I agree with 
our investigator that compensation is warranted. 
Putting things right
Lloyds has agreed to pay Ms H the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator to 
resolve this complaint. But its clear Ms H doesnt think this sum adequately reflects her 
inconvenience and experience. Shes sought to compare the compensation recommended 
by our investigator to a higher amount she was paid by Lloyds to resolve a previous 
complaint she made. I can understand the point Ms H is making here. But this service considers complaints on an individual basis. So, I cant comment on, or compare, the 
compensation that was awarded in a different complaint. 
Ive assessed whether the level of compensation our investigator recommended 
appropriately recognises the trouble and upset Ms H would have been caused here. And, 
having carefully considered what she and Lloyds have said, Im satisfied the £200 
recommended by our investigator is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
As our investigator has already explained our service isnt here to punish businesses. When 
deciding what potential compensation to award we must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
I havent seen any evidence that Ms H lost out financially as a result of what happened. And, 
in those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Lloyds to pay financial 
loss or compensation for something theres no evidence of.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
I've thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Ms H. It's clear to me that 
her experience here went beyond mere irritation. She was caused distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. She had to spend time checking her credit file and 
contacting Lloyds to understand why the information was reappearing on her credit file. She 
also had to contact Lloyds each time this happened. 
I can understand how inconvenient all of this was for Ms H. And its only right that Lloyds 
recognises this. But Im satisfied that £200 is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Ms H would have been caused here. 
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. And 
Im persuaded that the amount recommended is in line with our approach in similar 
scenarios  its also in keeping with what Id have told Lloyds to pay had no compensation 
award already been considered.
So, while Ms H may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation our investigator 
recommended fairly recognises the impact Lloyds error had in the overall circumstances of 
this complaint. So I wont be directing it to pay any more
I understand Ms H will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Ms 
H any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Ms H £200 to 
resolve this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman