DRN-2667992
The complaint
B is a limited company. It complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited didnt allow it to run a
crowdfunding campaign on its platform.
What happened
B expressed an interest in attending Crowdcubes bootcamp programme in March 2019. The
bootcamp was advertised on Crowdcubes website as a way to get crowdfunding ready, in
just five weeks.
Crowdcube introduced B to a third party who was responsible for running the bootcamp.
Soon after, B received an email confirming it had a provisional place on the bootcamp.
However, B was later contacted by the third party to explain it hadnt been accepted on the
course due to concerns around it being at an early stage in its business. B followed this up
with Crowdcube and was told that this was an error and it would be able to start the
bootcamp in April 2019.
B signed a contract with the third party in April 2019 which said it agreed to pay £2,750 plus
VAT for the course fee and that an additional £3,250 plus VAT would become payable if B
failed to launch a crowdfunding campaign with Crowdcube within six months. B also signed
an engagement agreement with Crowdcube in April 2019.
Having completed the bootcamp, B said it expected to be able to run its campaign on
Crowdcubes platform but Crowdcube declined to allow it to do so in September 2019.
Crowdcube said B needed to have a really strong pitch deck and a lead investment of 20%
of its target before it could run a successful campaign on its platform.
B complained to Crowdcube as it felt it could produce a strong pitch deck and it had made it
clear from the outset that it wouldnt be able to achieve 20% of its target straightaway. B also
said it had received an email from Crowdcube in June 2019 confirming it would be able to
run its campaign privately on the platform for at least four weeks. This was so it could
achieve the 20% required to run the campaign publicly.
Crowdcube didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said:
It doesnt charge businesses any fee for listing on its platform - only commission is 
paid on successful campaigns. So B didnt incur any costs with Crowdcube.
Any costs B incurred are between it and the third party.
The engagement agreement B signed made it clear listing on the platform wasnt 
guaranteed.
B agreed to its terms and conditions which explained it has absolute discretion on the 
listing of a business on the platform.
Overall, it didnt feel B was in a suitable position to crowdfund on the platform.
An investigator at our service looked into Bs complaint and felt it should be upheld. She said
Crowdcubes website explained a pitch would remain private until a business is able to reach
20% of its target - giving it sufficient time to secure lead investment. She felt this
contradicted what Crowdcube had told B. Had Crowdcube made this clear to B from the
outset, she was persuaded B wouldnt have attended the bootcamp as it knew it wouldnt be
able to achieve the 20% immediately. So she recommended that Crowdcube reimburse B for
the bootcamp fee paid and release B from any further obligations with the engagement
agreement.
B accepted the investigators opinion but Crowdcube disagreed. It said:
It has a statutory obligation to ensure campaigns are fair, clear and not misleading. It 
also has to take into account commercial considerations for listing campaigns, 
including looking at the campaign as a whole: the content, the campaign planning, 
the team involved and the traction, if any, on lead investment.
Lack of one of these things does not necessarily mean a campaign will be 
unsuccessful, which is why it will on occasion allow a well-prepared business to start 
privately with less than 20% of its target investment.
However, it simply didnt think B was well enough prepared to execute a good 
campaign and there was a high risk that investors could be misled because of the 
poor quality of the information and materials that B had prepared.
It confirmed B isnt prohibited from exploring other crowdfunding opportunities and 
said a benefit of having attended the bootcamp is that B is able to approach other 
platforms with the materials and knowledge gained. 
It reiterated that the fees paid were to the third party under a separate contract which 
it wasnt a party to. And its terms and conditions confirmed it wouldnt be responsible 
for any third-party fees and that listing on the platform was never guaranteed.
After further discussions, Crowdcube put forward an offer of £1,000 in recognition that it
could have let B know earlier in the process that it wouldnt be able to run a campaign on the
platform. But B didnt accept this.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. In it I said:
I think its important to start by explaining its not my role to decide whether Crowdcube 
should allow an investee to run a crowdfunding campaign on its platform. That is a decision 
for Crowdcube to make using its commercial discretion - something which is highlighted in its
Investee Terms:
3.2. Crowdcube is under no obligation to list the Companys Pitch on the Website 
and may reject a pitch in Crowdcubes absolute discretion.
Having seen the information provided to B from both Crowdcube and the third party, I can 
appreciate why B was of the understanding that attending the bootcamp would likely result in 
it being able to run its campaign on the platform. I say this as Crowdcube advertised the
bootcamp as a way to get campaign ready and it introduced B to the third party. It also
appears that Crowdcube was involved in the selection process for attendance on the
bootcamp and B signed an engagement agreement with Crowdcube prior to attending the
bootcamp.
However, Im not persuaded Crowdcube misled B in regard to its chances of running a
campaign on its platform. The engagement agreement explained that:Listing your pitch on Crowdcube is not guaranteed and you must agree to 
Crowdcubes standard Investee Terms [] and complete due diligence to 
Crowdcubes satisfaction before your pitch is listed.
Therefore, Im satisfied B ought to have known that attending the bootcamp wouldnt
guarantee a campaign on the platform. And it follows that it signed the contract with the third
party knowing there was a risk it would incur the additional costs associated with not getting
a campaign on the platform. The third-party contract ought to have also made B aware that
the bootcamp didnt guarantee a campaign on the platform as it explained a further charge
would be payable if B didnt launch its campaign with Crowdcube within six months of
signing the contract.
I think its also important to clarify that, as Crowdcube wasnt party to the contact between B
and the third party, it cant be held responsible for any consequences of B entering into it -
including any fees payable under it. This is also made clear in Crowdcubes Investee Terms:
4.3. The Company acknowledges that ancillary charges or fees may be payable to
third parties in connection with the investment, and acknowledges that such charges
or fees are disassociated with these terms. These fees could include, but are not
limited to, legal fees or fees payable to consultants who may assist the Company
prepare its campaign.
Whilst I understand B attended the bootcamp because it thought it would likely result in a
successful campaign on Crowdcubes platform, it was ultimately Bs decision whether to
attend the bootcamp or not, having weighed up the financial risks of doing so without it
resulting in a campaign. So Im satisfied B alone is responsible for any associated costs or
resulting fees from attending the bootcamp.
Although I dont find Crowdcube at fault for the costs incurred as a result of attending the
bootcamp, there were some failings which caused B inconvenience. Crowdcube has
admitted it could have made the decision not to allow B to run a campaign on its platform
earlier in the process. But it says this wouldnt have prevented B from attending the
bootcamp in the first place, as it was clearly in the process of trying to gain investment at the
time and required guidance. Whilst its not clear where in the process Crowdcube ought to
have made its decision, on balance, Im persuaded this would have been after B had
decided to attend the bootcamp. I say this, as Crowdcube would have likely needed to see
the pitch deck and materials B produced during the bootcamp before realising it wasnt
appropriate to allow it to run a campaign on its platform. Even so, I still appreciate B would
have been inconvenienced by continuing to make best efforts to get its campaign on the
platform after the it had finished the bootcamp, when Crowdcube could have let it known
sooner that it wasnt able to.
Ive also considered the mis-information given to B regarding running a campaign privately
on the platform before going live to investors. Looking at the information provided on
Crowdcubes website at the time B decided to attend the bootcamp, its page on raising
finance explained the process for getting a campaign on the platform. It said a business was
able to launch privately to give its network exclusive access to the pitch and that the pitch
would then launch publicly when the pitch reaches 20% of its target fundraise. This was also
confirmed to B in an email from Crowdcube after it had attended the bootcamp. However,
Crowdcube made the decision not to allow B to run a campaign on the platform, partly
because B hadnt raised the 20% investment required. Clearly B was under the impression it
could run privately until it raised the 20%, but Crowdcube didnt give it this opportunity. As I
said above, its not my role to decide whether Crowdcube ought to have let B run a
campaign on its platform, whether that be publicly or privately, but I consider this 
misinformationto have caused further inconvenience to B.
Had Crowdcube let B know sooner that it wasnt able to run the campaign, either publicly or
privately, then its reasonable to say it could have avoided wasting time and resources
pursuing it. So taking into account all of the above, I do think compensation for the
inconvenience caused is warranted here. I acknowledge there is an offer of £1,000 on the
table and considering the above failings, I think the offer is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision 
B didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary it said:
Crowdcube authorised the campaign after validating the pitch deck and other 
materials, but it suddenly, without reason, cancelled the campaign. 
The engagement agreement with Crowdcube shouldnt be considered when looking 
at what happened at the end of the process.
Crowdcube authorised it to run the campaign privately but then unfairly decided to 
remove this option. 
Crowdcubes actions werent what B expected of a Financial Conduct Authority 
authorised firm. 
The actions of the third party shouldnt be considered separate to Crowdcube as it 
acted as an arm of Crowdcube and on its behalf.
Crowdcube accepted my provisional findings. In response to Bs points, it added that it 
hadnt authorised Bs campaign as it still had to undergo a full company and director check, 
as well as have its pitch text approved as a financial promotion. Crowdcube said this phase 
of its process can take from four to six weeks to complete. Crowdcube said it would only 
authorise a campaign to run on its platform after it had completed this phase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional decision  they are set out
above and I dont consider the information B has provided in response to that
provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said. Most of the 
points B has raised have already been covered in my provisional decision, and so I wont be 
reiterating these same points again in this decision. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider 
to be the central issues to this complaint, in order for me to decide whether Crowdcubes 
actions were fair and reasonable.
There is clearly a disagreement between both parties regarding whether the campaign was 
authorised or not before Crowdcube cancelled the campaign. However, the decision to allow 
B to run a campaign on the platform is ultimately Crowdcubes to make. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, this total discretion is explained in the investee terms. When making the 
decision as to whether to promote an investment opportunity, Crowdcube must ensure that it 
adheres to relevant rule and regulations set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. One rule under the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is particularly 
relevant here. COBS 4.2.1R (1) explains that:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and 
not misleading. Crowdcube has explained that it reviewed the pitch deck and additional materials put 
forward by B and the third party and found them lacking which, in-turn, raised concerns 
regarding safeguarding investors. Whilst I understand B disagrees, Im conscious that B 
itself had raised concerns with the materials produced by the third party in an email to the 
third party in June 2019. Its clear from the email Crowdcube sent B in September 2019 that 
it had concerns about the pitch deck and additional information. And its apparent that this, 
coupled with the lack of lead investment, was the reason for Crowdcube declining to 
promote the investment opportunity on its platform. The email also acknowledges Bs 
disappointment with the standard of materials produced by the third party. So Im satid
Although Im satisfied Crowdcubes decision was fair and reasonable, Im still persuaded that 
it could have made that decision sooner. Had it done so, B could have avoided wasting 
considerable time and resource. And that, coupled with the mis-leading information 
Crowdcube gave B regarding running the campaign privately, means I still think 
compensation for the inconvenience caused is warranted. 
Putting things right
Considering the above failings, I think the offer put forward of £1,000 is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Crowdcube Capital Limited 
to pay B £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman