DRN-1549330
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained that, his motor insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) acted unfairly 
when it recorded a claim he notified it of on an external database. He said it was recorded as 
a fire claim which wasnt the case and that this will lead to an increase in his future 
premiums.
All references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
Mr H told us that as he was driving down a country road he noticed that his breaks werent 
working and smoke was coming from the bonnet of his car. He said he stopped the car and 
checked under the bonnet but didnt want to get very close because of the smoke. He 
notified his insurer, Ageas, and initially said he thought there mightve been a fire. 
The car was recovered to a garage where it was inspected by Ageas. It was deemed a total 
loss but Ageas told Mr H that the breakdown was mechanical and wouldnt be covered under 
the policy. It also said that there was only around £70 worth of resulting fire damage that 
could be covered under the policy but as this was below Mr Hs £100 excess no claim was 
made. 
Mr H was unhappy that, despite no claim being made, Ageas logged this claim on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database (which is a shared record of insurance 
claims and incidents). He said it was incorrectly logged as a fire claim by Ageas who also 
said it had paid £219 towards it. Mr H also said he did originally think there was fire but hes 
not an engineer and as this wasnt the case, Ageas shouldve corrected the record on CUE. 
He also thought that Ageas later said there was a small amount of fire damage simply to 
justify logging the claim on CUE.
Mr H complained to Ageas and asked it to take the claim off CUE. He also said he spoke to 
a number of insurers who told him the incident shouldnt have been logged and that Ageas 
should have removed it when it became apparent that the cause of the damage wasnt 
covered. He said the fact that it didnt and that its following this approach could lead to a 
mismatch of information on CUE, which could make consumers misrepresent the information 
they give insurers when taking out new policies.  
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, because it was notified of the incident as a 
potential claim this forms part of Mr Hs claims history and because it incurred the cost of 
inspecting the car, it was obliged to log the details on CUE. Mr H said by the same token any 
breakdown like a punctured tyre would have to be reported to insurers who would then log 
this on CUE-which wouldnt be fair. 
Mr H was unhappy with Ageas decision and complained to us. Our investigator didnt think 
Ageas had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He said Ageas had to register the claim on CUE 
and that it had done so correctly by logging it as a fire claim because mechanical breakdowns arent an option it could select on CUE. He also thought the fact that it was 
logged as a notification only claim was fair and reasonable and noted that Ageas had also 
carried out an inspection in order to determine the cause of the breakdown.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr Hs policy doesnt cover mechanical breakdowns but it does cover damage caused by 
fire. 
Mr H accepts his claim wasnt covered but he says when it became apparent that this was 
the case, Ageas shouldve removed any record of a fire claim from CUE. Ageas said this 
was an incident which was a potential claim and had to be recorded as such. Mr H said 
Ageas based this on the fact that it says there was charring on the engine cover which 
wouldve been covered under the policy if the cost of repairing it was over the £100 excess. 
Mr H has provided us with photographs which he says show there was no charring He also 
said he had the car fully repaired and no repairs were necessary to that part of the car. 
I appreciate what Mr H has said but I have also seen the engineering evidence that Ageas 
has relied on. This is the only expert evidence available to me so although I can understand 
why Mr H feels the way he does I also think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on 
expert opinion on this issue. The engineer said that there was a crack to the inlet manifold 
and that it had been sealed over. Mr H said this was done by the company that recovered 
his car to the garage. The engineer also said that the fault to the manifold caused a small fire 
which damaged the engine top cover and a part of the bonnet. He said this was very light 
and could be brushed off and would cost about £69 plus vat to repair- but as it was so minor 
it wouldnt need replacing. He also said the issue with the breaks was separate to the issue 
with the manifold. The engineer also mentioned there was a diagnosis done by another 
company which mirrored the findings he made in his report. 
Based on the expert evidence I think there was damage to the car that could have been 
covered under the policy i.e. the fire. I appreciate Mr H says there was no fire but as I said 
above I think its fair and reasonable that Ageas followed the expert evidence on this point. I 
appreciate Mr H says the claim didnt proceed further but as Ageas was notified of a 
potential claim I think it was fair and reasonable that it logged this on CUE- this is also 
industry practice. I also note that Ageas logged the costs involved in the claim which 
included the inspection costs. Again I think this is fair and reasonable and also industry 
practice. I also note that Ageas logged this as a notification only claim rather than a fault 
or non-fault claim which again I think is fair and reasonable bearing in mind that the claim 
didnt proceed through it. 
I should also explain that even if there was no fire, as Mr H maintains, I think this is 
something that Ageas would have still had to log on CUE, whether as a fire claim or not. 
This is because it was logged by Mr H as a potential claim, Ageas had to investigate it and 
incurred costs in doing so (i.e. of the inspection, storage, collection fees) before it could 
reject it. As Ageas said this is part of Mr Hs claims history and has to be recorded as such. I 
note Mr H says that by the same token a tyre puncture could be logged as a claim. I have 
considered this but I doubt Mr H or any other consumer would have called up their insurer to 
notify it of a tyre puncture unless they thought it mightve resulted from something they could 
be covered for such as a collision with another car. I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly about this and will be disappointed with my decision. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Ageas treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman