DRN-4308051
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided by Close Asset Management Limited (CAML) in 
regard to his pension arrangements.
What happened
The initial complaint was made on behalf of Mr M and Ms B, however this decision will focus 
on the elements of the complaint that relate only to Mr M. A separate decision will consider 
Ms Bs complaint issues.
CAML had provided services to Mr M since 2004.
More recently Mr M has complained about the service he has been provided, specifically 
from 2014 onwards. 
As this complaint spans a number of years and numerous contact points and 
correspondence, I will only set out a short summary of the key events. However, I have read 
and considered all the evidence provided but to set this all out will make this decision 
unwieldy. Our remit as an informal dispute resolution service is to provide an answer getting 
to the heart of the matter.
2014
23 October, CAML email Mr M to arrange a meeting after changes announced in the budget. 
Mr M informed them that he was away in the United States and he should be available in a 
week or two.
10 November, CAML chase for a response to arrange a meeting. No response is received.
2015
11 March 2015, CAML contact Mr M asking if there was any last minute tax year end 
planning required. It appears there was no response from Mr M.
2016
19 December, CAML email Mr M to arrange a review.
2017
Mr M responds and a meeting date is set for 1 March 2017. However, on 21 February CAML 
cancel the review as the adviser is ill.
27 March, Mr M contacts CAML to arrange a meeting to sort out his tax allowances for the 
year. CAML email Mr M with the relevant forms and information on the same day. And its 
systems show an ISA contribution is made for both Mr M and Ms B.
26 April, CAML email Mr M to arrange potential review dates.
A response is chased on 3 May and 11 May. It appears no response was received.
2018
27 February a meeting takes place.
26 March, Mr M emails CAML to confirm a number of points:
CAML were going to arrange for Mr M to meet with a mortgage adviser.
Pension contribution advice for Mr M was required
Mr M wanted an update on his life policies
Mr M wanted to max out his ISAs
28 March, CAML responded:
It would arrange for a mortgage adviser to give Mr M a call.
It confirmed the maximum amount of pension contribution and asked Mr M to confirm 
how much he wished to contribute.
It asked Mr M to confirm once he had sent the money to max out his ISA allowance.
On the same day, Mr M emailed his adviser with an update on Ms Bs position and
asking for clarification on the amount he had to pay to his SIPP. A suitability report
detailing the pension contributions and carry forward was generated on 29 March
by CAML but not sent to Mr M.
2 April, Mr M emailed his adviser with the following points:
A payment to be set up for £100,000 gross into his pension.
A pension contribution for Ms B to be set up.
Mr M had issued £40,000 to both his and Ms Bs ISA.
In the new tax year Mr M wished to discuss setting up monthly direct debits to his 
pension, Ms Bs pension and the ISAs.
3 April, CAML sent the relevant bank details to pay the contribution to
Mr Ms SIPP, and Mr M responded the same day with copies of all of the required forms. Mr 
M also requested confirmation of Ms Bs pension contribution.
4 April, CAML provided the details requested and a suitability report was generating detailing 
the contribution but was not sent to Mr M on 5 April.
4 May, CAML emailed Mr M and Ms B with a list of documents that
required a signature. This is chased on 11 May.
15 May, Mr M re-sent the email from 2 April 2018 to CAML as a
prompt to discuss the additional points that werent addressed. On the same day, Mr M
responded with signed copies of the required paperwork, and Mr M requested clarity on his 
life insurance plans. 
CAML responded stating it cannot recommend cancelling these policies and confirmed it 
would be happy to discuss in more detail. The adviser also stated Mr M should let him know 
if he wished to cancel the protection.
8 August, CAML emailed Mr M regarding outstanding documents that wererequired  a form for Ms B given her fund switch with the ISA, and evidence of
both Mr Ms and Ms Bs bank accounts. 
Mr M responded the same day saying he hadnt had this request before now and requested 
an update on setting up the direct debits, Ms Bs pensions and asking for clarity on his 
pension. 
9 August, CAML responded, making clear that it would be in touch regarding
the ISA contributions and Ms Bs pension and confirmed Mr M had been contacted on 25
May 2018 regarding the missing documentation.
2019
8 January, CAML emailed Mr M a Market Insight document that the adviser felt Mr M
may find interesting.
23 March, Mr M emails CAML to request an update on his ISA and pension
contributions, and asked if he had all the necessary information to advise on Ms Bs
pension. CAML did not reply, and Ms B emailed them again on 5 April to chase.
As Mr Ms adviser was not available, CAML arranged for a member of their Telephone 
Advice Service to call Mr M and attempt to arrange a review meeting. Call attempts were 
made on 10 and 30 April, and on 1 May.
3 July, Mr M is allocated a new adviser. It appears from the notes provided that
two meetings took place following this, but neither Mr M nor CAML have provided
notes or details of what was discussed. CAMLs notes indicate that Mr M was issued with a
fee schedule.
October 2019, following complaints that Mr M has raised about poor service and waiting for 
information about his life policy, CAML attempt to arrange a meeting. And also give written 
advice about Mr Ms life policies which is to retain them as they are good value and wont 
cause a double insurance issue.
2020
30 April, the new adviser left Mr M a voicemail to try and arrange a review. No
response was received. 
7 May, the new adviser emails Mr M to ask if he had time to discuss his review, or if Mr M 
would like to defer or decline a review.
Mr M responded the same day stating he wished to consider this over the weekend and
would get back to him. Mr M asked for a breakdown of all of the fees paid over the past five
years in a particular format, on letter headed paper.
The adviser responded to say he had asked his finance team to provide the
fee breakdown on letter headed paper, but he also described where Mr M could find
the charges on the client portal, and totalled everything up for Mr M and Ms B in
the format requested.
11 May, the adviser called Mr M to discuss a review, Mr M said he wanted to defer this until 
later in the year.
29 July, Mr M emailed CAML to cancel the life policies.Separately Mr M was in contact with CAML about changing the bank account in which his 
ISA contributions were taken from and stopping his pension contributions.
21 August, CAML confirm that Mr Ms direct debit had been cancelled and provided some 
information on his money purchase annual allowance. The adviser also said he would 
typically review a clients income and contributions in January/February, and that some of his 
other clients had arrangements that might be relevant to Mr M. He asked that Mr M email his
assistant to arrange a meeting as he was about to go on holiday.
1 September, CAML received a letter of authority from a new adviser acting on behalf of Mr 
M.
2021
25 January, Mr M emailed CAML requesting a more specific breakdown of fees. Mr M stated 
that he needed this on letter headed paper but did not have time to wait for this to be posted 
and asked it was scanned an emailed. Mr M said hed approached a new
firm to try and reconcile the charges on his plan. It does not appear any response is 
received.
1 April, Mr M chases a response and asked for confirmation of how much he should pay into 
his ISAs and for details on how to do so and how much can be paid
into Ms Bs pension.
The adviser responded on the same date making clear that he would like to set up a meeting 
as soon as possible with Mr M, Ms B and one of his investment managers. And responded 
to the requests for information.
Mr M responded the same day confirming he would transfer the necessary ISA
payments. He also raised concerns regarding Ms Bs pension after a response
from CAML regarding the regulatory requirements regarding Ms Bs pension. Mr M
responded on the same day asking for confirmation of what Ms B could pay and raising
a formal complaint. This will be considered in relation to Ms Bs complaint, which is also at 
this service.
CAMLs advisers assistant issued Mr M with the relevant bank details to be used, and Mr M 
responded confirming how much Ms B would be paying into her SIPP.
CAML responded to Mr Ms complaint. It accepted it hadnt always provided the level of 
service it shouldve done so. To put things right it offered to do the following:
It would carry out a retrospective review on the advice it ought to have given in 2019  it 
offered this as it did not offer a review in 2019 and potential tax planning opportunities 
couldve been missed.
It was slow to cancel policies relating to Mr M and Ms B after receiving Mr Ms instruction 
in July 2020. It would reimburse the extra contributions paid on these policies with 8% 
simple added to the total.
CAML said it would suspend its ongoing fees from June 2021 when Mr M complained. 
However, it had failed to inform the SIPP provider and so fees had been incurred for both 
Mr M and Ms B. It would refund these fees.Mr M was unhappy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into matters and the complaint was split into two, one primarily dealing 
with Mr Ms issues and one with Ms Bs although there is crossover in parts of the complaint.
Our investigator looked into matters and whilst he agreed with Mr M that at points CAML 
hadnt provided a good service he felt the offer made by CAML was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr M remained unhappy with what had been agreed to put things right 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
In summary Mr Ms key issues remain:
CAMLs attempts to arrange meetings were not a valid excuse or substitute for providing 
the services hed paid for. He feels that over a large span of time he received very little in 
the way of advice. 
Mr M didnt receive adequate advice on his life policies for many years despite written 
requests.
Repeated requests for fee information and in a clearly defined format have not been met 
in full.
Information was missing from the online portal which is where CAML directed Mr M in 
terms of fees and it was concerning to see a policy missing from the portal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided us with a lot of evidence across a number of years, but Ive only 
summarised the points that I think are at the heart of the matter. I dont mean this as a 
disservice  I have taken into account everything Mr M and CAML have told us. The level of 
detail Ive included in my decision is merely a reflection of the informal nature of this service 
and that my role is to answer the crux of the complaint.
Mr Ms complaint, whilst spanning a number of issues, is ultimately that CAML has provided 
him with a poor service. Hes set out numerous instances where he is unhappy with the 
service provided.
Amongst other offerings, Mr Ms arrangement with CAML for the ongoing service fee was 
that hed receive:
An annual review meeting with a Financial Adviser including provision of an annual 
review pack
Review of goals and objectives along with investment performance
Annual confirmation that products and investments remain suitable
I think its fair to say to be able to achieve the above, collaboration between both parties is 
required. An annual review wouldnt be worth the paper it is written on without a suitably 
detailed conversation between the client and adviser.
Looking at the evidence its clear that Mr M is a very busy man, as hes said himself, its in 
part why he pays for an adviser to look after his financial matters. But without his 
involvement it is very difficult for CAML to provide a meaningful service in terms of the above. And I agree with the investigator but for the exception of 2019, CAML made 
reasonable efforts to arrange a meeting with Mr M. 
So I dont think CAML has done anything wrong here, it made reasonable attempts to meet 
the service agreement it made with Mr M in terms of reviewing his situation annually. I can 
somewhat understand Mr Ms frustration in hindsight that he paid fees for years where he 
received very little or nothing in the way of advice. However, I also think its fair to say had 
he been available or responded to CAMLs attempts to arrange meetings he wouldve 
received the advice/review that he was due. So I dont think I can hold CAML responsible 
here.
CAML accepts that in early 2019 it did not respond to requests from Mr M and Ms B 
adequately. And given the timing of this failure, it missed an opportunity for potential 
beneficial tax planning. It offered to put things right by conducting a retrospective review but 
this requires Mr Ms involvement. As is Mr Ms right and perhaps understandably given his 
unhappiness with CAML, Mr M has not accepted this offer. However, I think the offer from 
CAML here is fair. Mr M hasnt put forward a specific reason as to how this failure caused 
him a loss. And it may be that this inaction wasnt to Mr Ms disadvantage. But to be able to 
ascertain this, a retrospective review is required. So, I dont think CAML needs to do 
anything else to put things right. It has made a fair and reasonable offer. 
More specifically in terms of not receiving the service hed paid for, Mr M is unhappy with 
advice/or lack of advice in relation to his life policies. The evidence shows Mr M asked for an 
update on his life policies on 26 March 2018 amongst other queries, CAML responded but 
didnt address the life policy question. In May 2018 Mr M asked again about the life policies 
and CAML responded to say it couldnt recommend cancelling these policies, but it would be 
happy to discuss this in more detail. And if Mr M wished to cancel them it could arrange this. 
Mr M raised issues again in 2019 about what he perceived as a lack of advice and poor 
service, CAMLs Practice Director also got involved and apologised and said hed spoken to 
the new adviser about how to put things right. And theyd like to arrange a meeting to do so. 
The adviser also separately emailed Mr M and gave further advice on his life policies which 
was to retain them.  Then in July 2020 Mr M emailed CAML to cancel his life policies.
Mr M said it took four years to get the advice he requested in particular with regard to 
whether there would be problems in relation to double insurance. I can see in 2016, CAML 
sent Mr M some information on his life insurance policies which it said should answer any 
questions that he has  and to let them know if he needs anything further. And in 2019 Mr M 
says he finally received the answer that he was waiting for in regards to his life insurance 
policies.
Whilst Mr M did on occasion have to chase CAML for a response about his life insurance 
policies, the adviser did respond and his advice was that the policies should be retained. 
I appreciate Mr M did have to ask more than once in 2018 for an answer to his query and it 
appears, he wasnt happy with the response he eventually received. However, the adviser 
did offer Mr M an opportunity to discuss further which it appears Mr M chose not to take up. 
CAML certainly couldve been more detailed in its responses. And I can see it wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr M given that he is paying good money for its services to have to chase for 
answers/information. But ultimately Mr M was given an answer in 2018 and 2019, which was 
to retain the policies and he was given the opportunity to discuss the reasons in more detail 
which the evidence shows he didnt choose to take up. But I have taken into account that CAML didnt always respond promptly, when considering whether CAML have already done 
enough to put things right.
I agree with Mr M that the service CAML has provided about fees hasnt always been to a 
reasonable standard. Mr M has had to chase for responses in 2020 after he asked for 
information about the fees he was paying, and he didnt receive some information which 
CAML said would be sent to him. But Mr M didnt let the adviser know it hadnt been 
received until he re-requested this information approximately eight months later.  And CAML 
did send Mr M detailed fee information and also explained how he could access this 
information himself.
More recently, I agree that again CAML should have been able to provide Mr M with the 
information he requested in the format requested and he shouldnt have had to chase it for 
this information. However, much like the initial request, CAML has provided Mr M with 
detailed fee information and whilst they have been slow to respond, they do appear to be 
attempting to address the current questions raised by Mr M.
There are ongoing issues that Mr M has had with his requests for specific information. But as 
these points appear to be ongoing and werent part of the initial complaint  Mr M will have 
to make a new complaint with CAML if it does not provide him with the answers he requires. 
I cannot consider these issues as part of this decision  as CAML hasnt had the opportunity 
to investigate or put things right prior to our involvement.  
Mr M was also unhappy that CAML directed him to the portal regarding fees and then it was 
discovered one of Ms Bs policies was missing.  I can understand his frustration as he was 
told he could get all his fee information from the portal and there wouldve been some initial 
worry that the policy had gone missing. However, CAML did look into this and explained it 
had raised this with the platform provider and that it might be a problem with access 
permissions. It appears that it took steps to put things right here and explained why there 
was a discrepancy.
Whilst I agree with Mr M that the service hes been provided with through the years in 
question, hasnt always been up to standard, CAML has already offered financial 
compensation and so I need to consider whether what it has offered is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
As Ive already said the offer of a retrospective review is in my view sufficient to put things 
right in terms of the missed review in 2019. CAML was also slow to cancel policies after Mr 
Ms instruction which caused extra contributions to be paid, and so it will reimburse them 
plus 8%. I think this offer is fair and reasonable however as this relates to a specific error, I 
have not taken this into account in terms of redress for the poor service generally.
However, I think the key point in terms of whether CAML need to do more to put things right 
 is that it also offered to suspend its fees from the start of its investigation into Mr Ms 
complaint. This isnt something it was required to do, and not something I wouldve directed 
it to do. The fees across Mr Ms plans in this time appear to be over £2,000 and this is some
way in advance of any recommendation I wouldve made for a payment to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused by CAMLs service failings. I did consider whether any separate award 
should be made for the trouble and upset caused by Mr M having on occasion to chase 
CAML for responses and for not supplying Mr M with the fee information in the format he 
requested. However, I think CAML took this into account when it made its offer and it has 
offered compensation above and beyond what I would recommend given the circumstances 
here.Mr M is also unhappy as the information hed received didnt appear to show the fees that 
CAML said it would refund as part of its offer  as already refunded. However, as this was 
part of an offer to put things right, which Mr M can choose to accept or reject, I dont think 
CAML needs to do this before Mr M accepts the offer. As I understand it Mr Ms ISA fees 
were stopped when CAML said they would be but CAML failed to inform Mr Ms SIPP 
provider so those fees need to be refunded as part of the offer. 
In conclusion, whilst CAML didnt always provide Mr M with a good service, a lot of the 
problems were due to the difficulty in arranging meetings with Mr M. Where I agree CAML 
did provide a poor service, it has already offered compensation in excess of what I wouldve 
awarded. Therefore I think CAML has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right.
My final decision
Close Asset Management Limited has already made a fair and reasonable offer. If Mr M 
chooses to accept this offer, Close Asset Management Limited needs to carry out the 
required steps to make the payments it offered as part of its settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman