DRN-2181357
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc refused an application he and his wife 
made to port their mortgage and increase their borrowing. They had to move to another 
lender and pay an early repayment charge (ERC) to RBS.
What happened
Mr G and his wife had a mortgage with RBS. It was in a fixed rate period. They both 
changed jobs and needed to relocate. So they applied to RBS to port their mortgage to a 
new property, borrowing around £25,000 extra to fund the new purchase.
As the first stage in the process, they applied for a decision in principle in February 2020. 
This indicated that RBS might be able to lend them what they wanted  in fact, it said they 
could potentially borrow even more. So Mr G says that, relying on this indication, they looked 
for and found a new property.
In May 2020 they made a formal mortgage application. The loan to value they were looking 
for on the new property was around 85%. This was acceptable to RBS in February. But by 
May it had changed its lending criteria  it no longer offered any mortgages above 80%. So it 
refused to lend them what they wanted.
Mr G complained. He said they needed to move because of work. They were both key 
workers and in stable employment not at risk from the coronavirus pandemic. The loan was 
affordable for them. RBS had previously told them they could borrow that amount. It wasnt 
fair that it had changed its criteria, forcing them to pay an ERC because it had panicked 
about the impact of the pandemic.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, so Mr G asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and his wife were existing customers of RBS, with an existing mortgage. But they 
wanted to borrow more money, and port their existing mortgage to a new property.
When they took their previous fixed rate, the mortgage offer made clear that if the mortgage 
came to an end before the end of the fixed rate, an ERC would be payable. But it also said 
the ERC could be avoided or refunded if the mortgage was ported to a new property  
though porting would be subject to RBSs lending criteria at the time of any new application. 
Im satisfied this information was clearly set out in the format the regulator requires. 
Mr G and his wife did move their mortgage elsewhere. The fixed rate came to an end early. 
So, according to the terms and conditions of the mortgage, the ERC was properly 
chargeable.
However, its important for me not just to consider the letter of the contract, but also whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
When Mr G and his wife made their initial application for a decision in principle, RBS 
indicated the maximum it could lend. But that wasnt a firm offer. They hadnt even made a 
formal application at that point. It was just an initial indication of what might be available, 
subject to full checks and consideration.
They didnt formally apply until later. By this time, RBS had changed its lending criteria  so 
it no longer lent above 80%.
In the meantime, the full effects of the coronavirus pandemic came to be felt. The UK went 
into lockdown. At that time, it wasnt clear how long the pandemic or the lockdown would 
last, or what its short and long term impacts would be.
These were, in other words, not only changed circumstances  but unprecedented ones. 
They led RBS to reconsider the lending risks it was prepared to take. Having considered all 
the circumstances, it decided it no longer wanted to lend above 80%. 
Im aware that RBS wasnt alone in significantly reducing its lending range. Many other 
lenders did so too. Fortunately  from the point of view of being able to move house  Mr G 
and his wife were able to find another lender that was still willing to lend at higher loan to 
values.
Mr G was, therefore, extremely unfortunate. His mortgage application came at a very difficult 
time, when RBS  and the rest of the mortgage market  was adjusting to changed 
circumstances. It meant that a mortgage which may well have been approved in February 
wasnt approved in May.
As I say, this was unfortunate. But I dont think it was unfair for RBS to refuse the 
application, based on its lending criteria and what it knew and could have known at that time. 
Things have changed again since, and RBS has again revised its lending criteria. That 
doesnt mean it made the wrong decision in May; it merely means that things have moved on 
since then.
The result of the refusal of the application, though, was that Mr G and his wife had a difficult 
choice to make  either not move despite their new jobs, go to another lender, or find some 
other way of moving without repaying the RBS mortgage  including not increasing the 
borrowing.
In the circumstances, I can understand why they chose to move to another lender. But it is 
true to say they had other options too. Many people were faced with difficult choices because the pandemic changed their circumstances.
As Ive said, in contractual terms this meant the ERC became payable. When a fixed rate 
ends early, theres a cost to the lender because it doesnt recover the interest it has 
budgeted for when it lent the money for a fixed term. Thats what the ERC is for  its a 
charge that means the lender can allow the borrower to leave the contract early as long as it 
recovers its losses that result.
Ive thought about this very carefully. I understand Mr Gs upset at having to find a £7,000 
ERC to re-mortgage  a charge he may well not have had to pay if his application had been 
considered a few months earlier. And I can understand why he doesnt think it was fair that 
he had to pay it  I have much sympathy with that point of view. 
But in the end, I dont think he had to pay it because RBS did anything wrong. It didnt. It 
hadnt committed to lend and then withdrawn an offer, and it applied to same criteria to Mr G 
that it applied to anyone else applying for a mortgage at this time. The problem was that the 
wider landscape had changed  due to circumstances beyond the control of both Mr G and 
RBS.
And so I dont think it would be fair to ask RBS to absorb the costs of ending the mortgage 
early. His mortgage worked as it should, RBS applied its then current lending criteria to the 
application, and Mr G chose to move his mortgage elsewhere  knowing the ERC would 
follow.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman