DRN-3826415
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly gave her 
two loans that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 26 March 2009, Ms B applied for a loan with Nationwide. The loan amount was 
£15,000, the term was 60 months and the monthly repayment was £301.48. On 24 April 
2013, Ms B applied for a loan with Nationwide which repaid the previous loan. The loan 
amount was £18,537.27, the term was 60 months and the monthly repayment was 
£384.97. 
In 2021, Ms B complained to Nationwide to say that the loans shouldnt have been 
opened for her because they werent affordable and that Nationwide ought to have made 
a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Bs complaint is that Nationwide made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that Nationwide failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms B with credit. 
But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries would have 
caused Nationwide to think the loans were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms B has not been able 
to provide any bank statements from the times in question or any credit information from 
the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any credit Ms may have had or 
how Ms B was managing any existing credit she had at the time the lending decisions 
were made. 
I have considered the monthly repayments in relation to the income Ms B told us she had 
at the time and this is insufficient to make the loans automatically unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Nationwide to think that the credit it 
provided Ms B was unreasonable. 
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about the 
difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Ms B to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman