DRN-3766478
The complaint
Mr K complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
He says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him from loss when he became the victim of 
a scam and wants HSBC to pay him back the money he lost.
What happened
Mr K was contacted by telephone by someone pretending to be from a genuine investment 
company. They appeared to know that he had previously been a victim of a scam and 
offered to help him recover his money. 
He was manipulated and persuaded into paying the scammer. Mr K made four payments 
totalling £56,999.96.
Once Mr K realised he had become the victim of a scam, he contacted HSBC to make a 
complaint.
HSBC initially agreed to refund 50% of the third and fourth payment. Mr K wasnt satisfied, 
so he brought the complaint to this Service.
HSBC then agreed to refund 50% of the first two payments.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld  but with a 
25% deduction for contributory negligence rather than the 50% deduction offered by HSBC.
Mr K accepted this, but HSBC did not, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr K the victim of a scam?
It isnt in doubt here that Mr K was the victim of a scam. He was contacted out of the blue by 
an individual offering an investment opportunity  the scammer persuaded Mr K to download 
a computer programme purporting that this could be used to show Mr K how to trade online. 
This is not normal for a regular investment.
Ive listed the payments that were made below.
Date Payment type Payee Amount
7 May 2019 Faster Payment B £7,000
7 May 2019 Faster Payment B £4,999.66
29 May 2019 International Faster 
PaymentB £21,000
29 May 2019 International Faster 
PaymentB £24,000
Did Mr K authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr K isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr K authorised the payments  and so, whether he made the payment himself or 
whether he gave someone else permission to do this on her behalf.
I am satisfied that on balance, Mr K did authorise the payments that were made. The PSRs 
state that consent is given when a customer uses the steps agreed for making a transaction 
 and its also possible to provide consent for someone to act on your behalf. Mr K allowed 
the scammer access to his computer in order to make the payments  so I think that they 
were authorised.
Recovery of Mr Ks payments
After the payments had been made, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it 
was notified of the scam. 
However, I dont think that there was anything that HSBC could have done to recover the 
payments as Mr K didnt report the scam until a year after the payments had been made  
so the funds would very likely have already been moved on.
HSBC initially offered to refund 50% of the thirds and fourth payment made under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)  but this was actually in error as the CRM doesnt 
apply to the type of payment made. It did explain that t didnt intend to withdraw this offer 
when it realised it had made a mistake. However, although the CRM doesnt apply here, this 
isnt relevant anyway as I think HSBC should have prevented the payments in the first place, 
which I will nor explain. 
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr K made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr K authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for the payments in question here.
Having done so, I think that HSBC should have intervened from the first payment that Mr K 
made. Ill explain why.
Mr K didnt use the account the payments were made from very often  and while he had 
made some higher value payments, the amount of the first payment shouldve triggered a 
response from HSBC. Th largest payment Mr K had made in the year leading up to the scam 
was for £5,500  which was a transfer to his own account. This transaction was much higher 
at £7,000 which was an unusual amount for Mr K to pay  and to a new payee. I think that 
this was highly unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr K, and should have warranted an 
intervention from HSBC. 
Had HSBC contacted Mr K, at this point, I wouldve expected it to have questioned him 
about the payment  including what the payment was for, and the surrounding context  and 
to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr K had been coached, or told to lie about the payments 
he was making  so I think that had HSBC acted as I wouldve expected, it would quickly 
have uncovered what was going on.
Mr K has been contacted out of the blue by phone  by someone offering investment 
opportunities who had persuaded him to allow them remote access to his computer. This 
wouldve been a major red flag to HSBC  and it should have told Mr K about its concerns. 
Had it warned him appropriately, I dont think that Mr K wouldve continued with the payment 
and the loss couldve been prevented.
I understand that HSBC spoke with Mr K when he initially tried to make the third and fourth 
payments  but theres not enough for me to say that Mr K was given a meaningful warning 
at this time  HSBC has only provided a note to say that Mr K would need to visit a branch 
with ID to re-set his account. So, Im unable to conclude that he was given a warning and 
ignored it. On balance, Im not persuaded Mr K was given a meaningful warning and so I 
think HSBC missed an opportunity to appropriately intervene.
Should Mr K bear some responsibility for the loss?While I do think that HSBC should have prevented the first payment I do also need to 
consider if Mr K should bear some responsibility for the loss by way of contributory 
negligence.
As Ive explained above, the scammer initially contacted Mr K as he had previously been a 
victim of another scam  and while I understand that he says he took steps to research the 
business he thought he was investing in, I do think that he should have applied more caution 
here and done more thorough research into what the scammer was asking of him  and the 
unlikely returns he was being offered. Effectively, he was already on notice.
Some of the things that the scammer was asking of Mr K were not usual for a legitimate 
investment  such as allowing access to his computer via Anydesk, and the promise of 
implausible levels of return. Mr K did do some research, and the scammer did supply him 
with what he says was persuasive proof that he was investing with a genuine company. 
However, I dont think that Mr K went far enough in checking the information that the 
scammer provided to him. Had Mr K looked deeper into the apparent FCA regulation of the 
business I think he would have realised that the scammer was not being honest with him  
and it was likely to be a scam. 
That said, HSBC were the experts here  and had more knowledge on the intricacies of 
these types of scams, whereas Mr K was a lay-person in such matters. So, I think that it 
should bear more responsibility for what happened here.
As such, I feel that a deduction of 25% of Mr Ks total loss is appropriate.
Putting things right
I understand that HSBC has already refunded Mr K 50% of his total loss  if t has not done 
so, it should do so now.
On top of this, HSBC should also now refund a further 25% of Mr Ks total loss to him.
I calculate this to be £14,249.99.
This brings the total refund HSBC should pay Mr K to £42,749.97.
HSBC should also pay Mr K 0.25% interest on the total refund which is the interest rate for 
the savings account that funded the transactions, less any tax lawfully deductible.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint with a 25% reduction in compensation for contributory negligence.
 HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman