DRN-2344717
The complaint
Mr D complains that London Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) incorrectly handled a 
third-party claim made against his policy and settled liability incorrectly. Mr D has said this 
has affected his insurance premiums at renewal. 
Any reference to LV includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr D has said his vehicle was blocked in by a third-party vehicle who was double parked  
impeding his exit in January 2020. Mr D says he asked the third party to move their vehicle 
but they were rude towards him.
The third-party vehicle ended up with some damage and the third-party driver reported the 
accident to LV. 
Mr D has said at one point that his vehicle was in reverse but at another point hes said that 
although he was in reverse, he may not have moved. LV said that as Mr D told them hed 
admitted reversing into the third-party vehicle they recorded it as a fault claim against Mr D. 
Mr D complained to LV as he was unhappy.
LV offered Mr D £500 for the behaviour of the third party and refunded an additional amount 
of around £43 for the increase in premiums following the claim. But they stood by their 
decision to settle the third-party claim. 
Mr D then referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They found that LV hadnt acted unreasonably when investigating the claim or when coming 
to their decision to decide liability. This complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr D that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter.
I know that Mr D has very strong views about what happened and has said that this whole 
incident is a stitch up and alleged fraud. But its not the role of our service to decide whos 
at fault for an incident. Thats something only a court can consider. Thats not to say Ive 
ignored Mr Ds comments about the other driver, his behaviour and where they were parked 
 I just cant place the weight on them or make the findings that he may have wanted me to. 
When coming to my decision, the key things I can decide on are whether LV has:
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy; and
dealt with the claim fairly when making its decision on liability.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the insurance agreement 
between LV and Mr D. The terms allow LV to settle a claim as it sees fit. 
Under the terms, LV doesnt need Mr Ds approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a 
claim or make a payment to a third party. That might mean it makes a decision the policy 
holder disagrees with - as has happened here. Although it seems both Mr D and third-party 
driver were both insured with LV, this doesnt mean LV have acted wrongly by choosing to 
settle the claim in house as Mr D has referred to. Insurers will often try to resolve claims 
before court if they can as its generally more cost efficient. 
Mr D provided photos taken at the time of the incident and has said the photos didnt appear 
to show any markings that might be expected if thered been contact between the two 
vehicles. But I also accept that Mr D has told us he couldnt get close enough to take more 
detailed photos because of the other drivers behaviour. Based on the photos from the 
scene, on balance, I think there does appear to be some markings on the front of the third-
party car that relates to whats been claimed for here. Ive also considered these alongside 
the photos taken at the repair garage for consistency. So I dont think this means LV has 
failed to properly consider this evidence.
I think the evidence shows there is damage to the third-party vehicle. Ultimately, Mr D was in 
his vehicle and it was either in reverse (as hes told us more recently), or in the process of 
actually reversing as he told LV and our investigator at one point.
In a transcript of his call with LV in January 2020, Mr D said ..if anything touched it would 
be just basic stuff that you could justpolish out and I didnt even go back.fast you 
know.. He also said (according to the transcript) theres absolutely no..dent on the car 
its just possibly .dried mud if anything  I accept that Mr D may have been stressed 
during this call in January given everything that was going on and I acknowledge that Mr D 
rejects the call transcript as representative of what was discussed. 
But even if I place less weight on the transcript as evidence, Ive also seen an email from 
Mr D to LV dated 7 January 2020. In it, Mr D refers to potential damage as .just mud from 
a short kiss of the bumpers. and There is no damage to his vehicle and if anything a 
garage would use some polish and that is it. Ive also noted that in October 2020 when our 
investigator summarised that Mr D was reversing at the time of the incident, he didnt say 
this was incorrect. So on balance, I cant say LV havent considered the evidence properly 
when coming to their decision.  
Mr D has raised a number of other points, including about the size of his vehicle relative to 
the third-party vehicle meaning he couldnt have caused damage to the other vehicle. But 
when Ive considered the photos hes provided from the scene of both vehicles next to each 
other, I still think LV have acted fairly and reasonably in considering the evidence and 
coming to their decision. 
Ive also noted what Mr D has said about the behaviour of the other driver and the way in 
which he was parked. Its not for me to decide whether the third-party driver was parked 
incorrectly or in breach of the Highway Code. My remit here is to decide whether LV have 
treated Mr D fairly and reasonably throughout - including when deciding the claim. In summary, although Mr D has referred to jaundiced evidence, the available evidence in 
this case shows that there was damage to the third-party car. For example, a witness 
statement (which I havent placed much weight on), an independent garage report and the 
testimony of Mr D that has referred (at times) to possible contact between the vehicles. So 
its not one single piece of evidence in this case, its a combination of all the evidence that 
allows me to reach the conclusion that I think LV investigated matters reasonably and I dont 
require them to do anything further. 
Im not persuaded LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to settle the claim as it 
has done. I say this because it acted in line with the policy terms and fairly considered the 
available evidence before making its decision. Whilst Im very sorry to hear of everything 
Mr D says hes experienced at the time of the incident and since, I dont make any award for 
the trouble and upset that Mr D says LV have caused him as I havent found that theyve 
done anything wrong. 
I know Mr D will be very disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him. 
I also want to point out that Mr D retains the option to take legal action in relation to this 
claim if he wishes to. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman