DRN-3207349
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs K complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered a fair amount for a 
claim on their home insurance policy, following a leak. They also complain about the claim 
delays.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr V and Mrs K made a claim for water damage, after they suffered a leak at 
their property. In November 2020, they brought a complaint to our service about delays.
Mr V and Mrs K have largely dealt with Great Lakes appointed agents. However, for ease, 
Ill simply refer to Great Lakes when referring to the actions of its agents.
In November 2020, Great Lakes agreed a payment of £1,300 for a damaged alarm/CCTV 
system and the dehumidifier electricity consumption. This was paid in December 2020.
In March 2021, Great Lakes made a final settlement offer of £34,000. This was in addition to 
the £1,300 already paid, and was broken down as follows:
- Buildings: £24,792.24
- Contents: £6,620.38
- Disturbance allowance (during the repairs): £810
- Compensation: £1,777.38
Mr V and Mrs K remained unhappy with the settlement offer. However, Great Lakes made a 
payment of £31,972.62, so repairs could be undertaken. This sum was for the bullet points 
listed above, apart from the compensation, and less the £250 policy excess.
Our investigator went on to consider the complaint. He made a number of findings, but Ill 
only set out the findings that remain in dispute:
- He was persuaded a dehumidifier malfunction had caused damp to every room, and 
window frosting in seven rooms. He also wasnt persuaded that the stained grouting 
and mould in the en-suite was due to a lack of ventilation. He therefore concluded 
that Great Lakes scope should cover every room, and the affected windows. 
- He was persuaded by a video that the kitchen flooring and the kickboards had been 
damaged by the leak. However, he wasnt persuaded the kitchen units had been 
damaged.
- In respect of a dining table set and piano, he noted the policy covers items on a new 
for old basis. He didnt think Great Lakes could fairly deduct an amount for wear and 
tear, or for the items salvage value. He thought Great Lakes needed to repair or 
replace the items.
- He found there to have been unacceptable delays during the claim. However, he 
thought the £1,777.38 compensation offer was fair.
Mr V and Mrs K accepted most of our investigators findings, apart from the kitchen units. 
They provided photos of the units and commented that the damage could have only 
occurred from water.
Great Lakes disagreed with much of our investigators findings and comments. It set out the 
following:
- A dehumidifier extracts moisture by refrigerating air thats blown into it. If not working, 
it would simply blow the air entering the machine back out. So, Great Lakes fails to 
understand how this would have caused damage to every room.
- The misted windows are wholly down to age, wear and tear. This happens when the 
seal between the window panes perish. The seal holds gas, which if replaced by air 
causes a frost effect. It isnt the leak, or its dehumidifier, thats caused the damage.
- Whilst Great Lakes accepts the en-suite does have ventilation, it said the staining 
and mould wouldnt have occurred in the timeframe. It said the issue is a result of 
poor cleaning, and ventilation issues.
- Great Lakes said the kitchen flooring is waterproof and the only visible damage is 
clearly pre-existing wear and tear. The kickboard damage is also scuff marks, not 
water damage.
- Great Lakes noted it used the wrong terminology when referring to the salvage value 
of the dining table set and piano. It said its generous settlement offer for these items 
were based on a loss of appearance. However, if Mr V and Mrs K prefer, it can 
restore the items instead.
- Great Lakes noted the claim settlement was delayed due to Mr V and Mrs K not 
accepting the settlement offers, and due to revisits for disputed items during the 
pandemic lockdown. It said the final settlement offer was further delayed by the 
involvement of our service, but nonetheless, the final settlement offer was 
communicated in March 2021.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator. In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Whilst Ive reviewed all the submissions, its only necessary for me to consider the items that 
remain in dispute following our investigators findings. 
Ill set out my provisional findings under the following six headings: areas of damage; other 
rooms and windows; kitchen units; kitchen flooring and kickboards; dining table set and 
piano; and delays and claim handling.Areas of damage
The leak originated from the loft. Great Lakes appointed restoration company has set out 
the following:
-Water tracked from the loft, down the stud wall between the master bedroom and the 
en-suite. The water primarily travelled vertically down the same wall into the kitchen 
and playroom below. 
-A limited amount of water travelled horizontally, which affected the master bedroom 
and the landing. The water damage to the first floor is minimal, as most of the water 
travelled vertically. However, at the ground floor, the wall the water travelled down 
is breeze block, so the water dispersed across the kitchen ceiling up to an RSJ.
-The kitchen is separated into two halves, by the RSJ. The section where the dining 
table and chairs were, up to the RSJ, was the affected area (section one). The 
ceiling beyond this point in the kitchen is a single storey extension and it wasnt 
affected (section two).
This service has been provided with three videos. One video shows water dripping through a 
spotlight in the main bathroom. The other two videos are of the kitchen, before and after the 
water was turned off. The two kitchen videos show water dripping through the spotlights in 
section one, although the water had covered the flooring of both sections.
Great Lakes cash settlement offer is based on a scope of works covering the following 
areas:
-Master bedroom  redecoration and laminate flooring
-Main bathroom  redecoration
-Landing  redecoration
-Playroom  redecoration
-Kitchen  redecoration
Other rooms and windows
As I understand it, Mr V and Mrs K say water dissipated to the other rooms due to an issue 
with a dehumidifier and a delay with drying. Great Lakes is of the view theres no damage in 
the other rooms thats been caused by the leak. Its noted there arent water marks tracking 
from the ceilings. Great Lakes also disputes the windows could have misted as a result of 
the leak, or that damage was caused to the other rooms or windows during the drying 
process. 
Due to the pandemic, the loss adjusters initial visit was completed via a video link. This visit 
took place one week after the leak occurred. He was shown the alleged damage, and photos 
were taken. He appointed a restoration company to report only in the first instance, and a 
surveyor. The restoration company visited two weeks after the leak occurred, and the 
surveyor visited five weeks after the leak occurred.Mr V and Mrs K have highlighted that all the rooms and windows in dispute were commented 
on by the restoration companys technician during its initial visit. However, Great Lakes says 
the technician simply noted all the damage that was pointed out to him during the visit, and 
this doesnt necessarily confirm the damage was related to the leak. Great Lakes says the 
reported damage was to be assessed to determine whether it was consistent with the leak. 
I accept what Great Lakes says here. I havent seen anything that shows the restoration 
company confirmed the disputed rooms or the windows had been damaged by the leak.
Mr V and Mrs K have explained that they had to initially use their own dehumidifiers, and the 
restoration company didnt install a commercial dehumidifier until four weeks after the leak. 
The commercial dehumidifier was installed in the playroom, in a tented area, to target the 
wall between the playroom and kitchen. The drying was complete 11 days later.
Mr V and Mrs K say the commercial dehumidifier wasnt collecting much water. They say the 
restoration company told them that this was because the dehumidifier was overheating, and 
the rest of the water would have dissipated around the property. They also say the tent that 
was housing the dehumidifier hadnt been adequately secured, due to gaps in the adhesive 
on the wall. They say its clear that moisture had left the tent and dissipated around the 
property, resulting in further water damage. 
Mr V and Mrs K also point towards an email that was sent by the technician who installed 
and checked the dehumidifier. They say the email confirms that excess water had been 
dissipated around the house. 
Having considered the information presented, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
leak caused the issue with the windows or affected the disputed rooms. I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence theres water damage in those rooms, and Great Lakes appointed 
experts refute the water could have travelled to them or caused the damage in question. 
Overall, Im more persuaded by the opinion of the appointed experts than anything 
Mr V and Mrs K have told us.
Whilst I appreciate the targeted drying of the main area affected wasnt started for some four 
weeks after the leak, this doesnt lead me to conclude damage would have spread to other 
rooms or the windows. 
Effectively, Mr V and Mrs K argue the commercial dehumidifier was drawing moisture from 
the wall, and not collecting it. Even if I were to accept this happened, and the tent wasnt 
sealed as effectively as it could have been, Im not persuaded this would have led to so 
much moisture escaping that rooms throughout the property would be affected. I dont 
find such arguments to be logical.
Furthermore, in the email referred to by Mr V and Mrs K, the technician said he had checked 
the dehumidifier and it was working perfectly. He noted a dehumidifier only takes so much 
moisture out of the air, and much of it will evaporate into the atmosphere. He commented 
that Mr V didnt believe him, and Mr V thought the moisture would be causing damage to 
other areas of the property. But its clear the technician didnt agree with Mr V.
I accept Mr V and Mrs K kept their own dehumidifiers running in other areas of the property. 
However, that in itself doesnt lead me to the conclusion the leak or drying process caused 
damage to the other rooms or windows.Great Lakes has noted that the misting/frosting of the windows is due to a breakdown of the 
rubber gaskets in the windows; and the windows, which are about 25 years old, are nearing 
the end of their operating life. On balance, I consider it likely that the failure of the rubber 
seals is the main cause of the issue. In my view, my conclusion here is supported by the 
issue being widespread throughout the property. As explained, Im not persuaded that 
moisture was dissipated to all these rooms and caused damage. 
Furthermore, even if I were to accept the window issue is now worse than it was before the 
leak, Im still not persuaded I could reasonably direct Great Lakes to cover this part of the 
claim, as the main cause is the failure of the gaskets/seals. This isnt something that was 
caused by the leak.
In respect of the en-suite, its accepted that the water travelled down the stud wall. However, 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me the grouting stains are due to the leak, rather than 
being a general cleaning and maintenance issue thats common within bathrooms. Although 
I acknowledge a wicker basket and bathmat from the en-suite were settled as part of the 
claim, its my understanding that the water entering this room was limited.
In conclusion, I dont intend to decide that Great Lakes needs to extend its scope to include 
more rooms or the windows.
Kitchen units
As noted above, whilst the restoration company noted areas of damage during its initial visit, 
Ive not seen that it confirmed this was related to the leak. So, whilst its technician observed 
veneer was peeling on some of the unit doors, this doesnt lead me to conclude the units 
should be covered.
The videos of the kitchen show most of the kitchen units are in section two. The videos dont 
show water was dripping through section two. My observations here are consistent with the 
restoration companys comments, that water dispersed across the ceiling in section one up 
to the RSJ.
Its also evident from the videos of the leak in progress, that theres already damage to some 
of the units, typical of general wear and tear, where the veneer has started to peel at the 
edges of the units.
Having considered the information available  including the location of the units, the path of 
the water, and the location of the damage on the units  on balance, Im not persuaded the 
damage presented was caused by the water leak. Im more persuaded that this was pre-
existing damage, caused by general wear over time.
Therefore, I dont intend to decide that Great Lakes needs to cover the kitchen units as part 
of the claim.
Kitchen flooring and kickboards
Its evident from the videos that the water spread across the wooden floor within the kitchen, 
up to the kickboards below the kitchen units.
Great Lakes says the type of flooring in the kitchen is very durable and water proof. It also 
says the kickboards have rubber or silicone protection on them. Great Lakes says that the 
flooring and kickboards werent damaged by the leak.Mr V and Mrs K say they were told that they needed to monitor the flooring, and it went on to 
lift. They also say that whilst the manufacturers website states the product is impervious to 
water, theres the possibility of the adhesive softening if the floor is under water for any 
length of time. They feel this has happened, which has caused the flooring to raise. 
I havent seen that the kickboards were water damaged. So, I dont intend to uphold this part 
of the complaint. The water on the kitchen floor, particularly in section two, doesnt appear 
considerable in the videos; and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I accept what 
Great Lakes say about the rubber or silicon protection.
Although I accept Mr V and Mrs Ks comments about the flooring adhesive, Im not currently 
intending to decide that Great Lakes needs to settle the flooring either. This is because, at 
this stage, Ive not seen any evidence the flooring has lifted.
Dining table set and piano
Mr V and Mrs K would like their dining furniture and piano replaced. The policy terms require 
Great Lakes to repair the damage or replace the items. As such, Mr V and Mrs K dont need 
to accept a sum in lieu of repair or replacement, for loss of appearance. Having said that, if 
repairing, Great Lakes only needs to put right the water damage. Its not responsible for 
putting right pre-existing damage, or general wear and tear. 
In respect of the piano, the information is, in my view, unclear. The restoration company said 
only two brass wheels had rusted. It noted there wasnt any moisture inside the piano, or any 
water marks or staining. On the other hand, a furniture company said, if the water was deep 
enough it may just have crept up into the bottom board via the entry holes, resulting in the 
small areas of white deposits. It also said the damage to the base board is so slight that it 
wouldn't cause any long-term effects.
Ultimately, if Mr V and Mrs K would prefer Great Lakes to repair the water damage, rather 
than keeping the £2,750 settlement for these items, then they should let me know when 
responding to my provisional decision. Otherwise, I intend to decide that the £1,750 
settlement for the dining table set, and the £1,000 settlement for the piano, are fair.
If opting for repair, it follows that Mr V and Mrs K will have to return the £2,750 which was 
paid to them as part of the £31,972.62 settlement.
To be clear, Ive not seen anything that leads me to conclude Great Lakes should replace 
the items, given its prepared to repair. If Mr V and Mrs K opt for repair, and arent happy 
with the results, they can make a separate complaint about that matter.
Delays and claim handling
Ive seen that some delays were due to Great Lakes concerns about the amount of damage 
being claimed. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont consider its concerns to have been 
unreasonable. Nonetheless, the final and updated settlement offer wasnt provided until 
March 2021. This was about 11 months after the claim was made, which is a relatively 
significant period of time.
I dont doubt the delays and overall claim journey impacted Mr V and Mrs K. However, given 
Great Lakes has already offered £1,777.38 compensation, I dont intend to comment on this 
part of the complaint further. This is because, bearing in mind the level of damage and the 
11-month timescale, the offer is in line with the amount I would have awarded.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. Mr V and Mrs K didnt respond to my provisional decision, or our chaser. However, our 
investigator went on to call Mr V, out of courtesy, to make sure they had received my 
provisional decision before I finalised matters. Ive listened to that phone call. Mr V 
expressed his disappointment and made several points, which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says hes in no doubt the kitchen flooring and the kitchen units were damaged by the 
leak. However, no further evidence has been provided to us in response to my provisional 
decision. Having reconsidered the information we received previously, Ive reached the 
same outcome for these items, for the same reasons.
Mr V asked whether it would help to send more photos. However, I dont require any more 
photos. But rather, it was for Mr V and Mrs K to respond to my provisional decision by the 
deadline, and to provide the further information they wanted me to consider. They didnt 
respond to my provisional decision or our chaser. Given Mr V and Mrs K received my 
provisional decision and two response deadlines have passed, I dont consider it 
appropriate to delay my final decision further in order to wait for more photos.
Mr V questioned how we could assess the damage without visiting the property. However, 
our role isnt to assess the damage or the claim. Our role is to decide the outcome to the 
complaint. We do this by considering the arguments and information presented by both 
parties, in order to decide what, on balance, we are more persuaded by.
Mr V has also questioned why my outcome differs from the one reached by our investigator. 
However, Im not bound by our investigators findings. We operate a two-stage process and 
either party can ask for a final decision from an ombudsman. Im sorry to disappoint Mr V 
and Mrs K, but I considered all the information and arguments afresh, and reached the 
outcome I considered fair and reasonable in the circumstances presented. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. 
My final decision is Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Mr V and Mrs K the £1,777.38 
compensation it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman