DRN-3209106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about advice they received from an appointed representative for 
Sesame Limited. Theyre unhappy that Mrs L wasnt sold a critical illness cover (CIC) 
policy, despite the representative recommending she have one at the time. 
What happened
The appointed representative recommended life assurance and CIC for Mr and Mrs L in 
2008, just after theyd bought their first house. It appears Mr L was able to get life assurance 
and CIC. But an application for Mrs L led to CIC being declined for her. 
Sesames records show a telephone conversation between Mrs L and the representative 
about this in late 2008. This shows the representative telling Mrs L her application for CIC 
had failed, and Mrs L saying she would go ahead with just the life assurance. 
Having recently been diagnosed with an ongoing medical condition, Mrs L is unhappy she 
doesnt have CIC. She feels Sesame should have done more to find a replacement CIC 
policy when her application was unsuccessful in 2008. 
In response, Sesame felt theyd done enough to explain Mrs Ls application for CIC hadnt 
been successful. Mrs L wasnt happy with that response, so she brought the complaint to us. 
But our investigator considered the information available, and felt Sesame had been clear 
there would be no CIC on the policy they sold to Mrs L. So our investigator said Sesame 
didnt need to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mrs L didnt agree, asking that the case be reviewed. So its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate thats a disappointing 
outcome for Mr and Mrs L. But Ill explain how Im reached that decision. 
The documents from 2008 show me that Sesames appointed representative had 
recommended having CIC to Mrs L. Her awareness of that recommendation looks to have 
led to Mrs L making an application for a policy that included CIC. 
The chief issue is that the application wasnt accepted by the chosen CIC provider. Sesame 
arent responsible for that decision. Their duty extended as far as making Mrs L aware she 
didnt have CIC, and letting her know what she could do next if she wanted to have it. 
Thats where the phone notes from 2008 come in. Those say that the representative for 
Sesame spoke to Mrs L and explained what had happened. That conversation suggests 
Sesame could have looked for a new CIC provider, if that was what Mrs L had wanted to do.
But there are two things that tell me she didnt want them to do that. Firstly, the note says 
Mrs L was thinking about looking for CIC the following year. With that information, I wouldnt 
expect the appointed representative to be proactively looking for CIC before then. 
And I also note Mrs L doesnt appear to have done anything to get CIC after 2008. Ive 
thought about whether that was because she didnt know she didnt have CIC. But the phone 
call in 2008 should have made that clear to her. The more likely explanation for Mrs Ls lack 
of action to get a new CIC policy is shed decided not to have it.
Things might have been different if Sesame had proactively contacted Mrs L after 2008 to 
see if she still wanted a CIC policy. But I dont feel Sesame had to take such a proactive step 
here. It was enough that theyd made clear what cover Mrs L had  and didnt have  and 
then left it for her to drive the process to add to that. 
I appreciate Mrs L has talked about a memory problem, and how that may have affected this 
situation. But I cant see Sesame would have been aware of that at the time. So I cant see 
Sesame should have concluded that the lack of contact from Mrs L after 2008 reflected any 
problems for her. It could as easily have been because shed decided not to have CIC, or 
decided to use another adviser. 
That has meant Mrs L didnt have any CIC when she came to be diagnosed with her medical 
condition. I appreciate that  with hindsight  she wishes shed had CIC. But I cant see that 
the absence of CIC links back to a failing by Sesame in this case. 
The appointed representative told Mrs L she didnt have CIC, and appears to have been 
open to Mrs L coming back to them about getting that sort of cover at a later date. That leads 
me to conclude Sesame wont need to do anything to put this complaint right. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman