DRN-4122423
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account.
Background
Mr S had an account with Santander. In November 2022, he applied for an ISA. His 
application was subject to checks and Santander discovered fraud markers had been 
recorded against his name by another business. In the light of that information, Santander 
blocked his account and told him it would be closed after a notice period of 60 days.
After efforts by Mr S, he pieced together what had happened. He contacted the business 
that was responsible for loading the marker. It confirmed that there was nothing to suggest 
Mr S was involved in fraudulent activity  instead, the loading shouldve recorded that hed 
been the victim of impersonation.
He complained to Santander. It said that its decision was based on the information that had 
been recorded by the other bank. That information has since been corrected, but it was 
entitled to rely on it at the time and take the action it did. It didnt accept that it had done 
anything wrong. Mr S was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Adjudicator. She agreed that it wasnt Santanders fault 
that the information was inaccurate. However, she noted that the block on the account had 
caused Mr S significant difficulties and she thought it should pay him £100 in recognition of 
that inconvenience.
Mr S disagreed with the Adjudicators view. Hes seen a copy of the information currently 
recorded with Cifas. He says that this shows that Santander must have received information 
which contained conflicting statements  both that he was a fraudster and a victim of fraud.
He said that its common sense that at least one of those statements must be wrong  after 
all, he cannot be the victim and perpetrator of the same fraud. He wasnt happy that 
Santander didnt contact him to discuss the problem. Hes also unhappy that it doesnt 
appear to have taken any steps to contact the other parties involved. He thinks the de
Because Mr S disagreed with the Adjudicator, the case was passed to me to consider. I 
wasnt persuaded that £100 was adequate compensation, given the additional steps Mr S 
had to undertake to figure out why his account was being closed. I proposed an award of 
£200, which Santander agreed to pay. Mr S didnt accept that offer and so the case has 
come back to me to issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has extensive obligations in respect of preventing the use of its accounts for fraud 
and money laundering purposes. Once it identifies a risk that one of its accounts might be 
used for such purposes, it does need to act quickly. It is therefore understandable that it 
would choose to block the account if it had a reasonable basis for thinking that was the case.
Its hard to know for sure what information Santander saw when it consulted the Cifas 
database. Historic versions of entries are not available  so once the other bank corrected its 
error in reporting, it was no longer possible to know for sure what information Santander 
saw. However, I can see the notes that were recorded on its internal records by the 
employee who consulted it. 
Each separate entry on the register has a unique identifier associated with it. The Santander 
employee noted down each of the entries related to Mr S, including those unique identifiers. 
That means its possible to see whether the contents of individual entries differed at the time. 
The notes taken by the Santander employee suggest that the same entries that now 
describe Mr S as being the victim of fraud didnt do so at the time. On balance, I think its 
likely that Santander didnt look at conflicting information in the way Mr S has described. 
Although it later turned out that it didnt need to restrict or close his account, it did so based 
on inaccurate data loaded by a different bank.
Having said that, I think it should have done more to help Mr S find the underlying cause of 
this error. From everything Ive seen, Mr S had to do a significant amount of work to figure 
this out. He had to consult his credit file, contact Cifas directly and raise queries with two 
other businesses. This took him a great deal of time and, from the way hes described it, it 
seems to have caused him a significant amount of stress. Santander has offered to pay him 
£200 in recognition of that and I think thats a fair sum in the circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr S accepts my decision, 
Santander UK Plc should pay him £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman