DRN-3514074
The complaint
Mr G, through his representative, complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G was approved by Loans 2 Go for one loan on or near 11 November 2021. The capital 
amount borrowed was £1,000 repayable over 78 weeks at weekly payments of £47.44. The 
total payable was £3,700.32 and it remains outstanding. 
Mr G appears to have signed up with is representative on 13 December 2021  about a 
month after taking the loan - and the complaint letter was sent to Loans 2 Go on 
20 December 2021.  
Loans 2 Gos final response letter (FRL) did not uphold his complaint but it said that it was 
willing to reduce the outstanding interest due on the loan by writing off £1,350.16 which 
would have left Mr G with a balance outstanding of around £2,255. Loans 2 Go has 
confirmed with us that the offer is still available to Mr G.
One of our adjudicators did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. The unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr G. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loans 2 Go verified Mr Gs income using a credit bureau check. It had calculated from its 
own checks that Mr G had more outgoings than he had declared to it and so it increased that 
total expenditure figure. Still that would have left Mr G with enough money to be able to 
afford just over £47 a week. And so, it considered that the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator had asked for copy bank statements to see more about Mr Gs financial 
situation but none were sent. I have reviewed the information we have. I can see from the 
copy credit file search results which have been provided by Loans 2 Go that Mr G did have a 
period of difficulty. But many of these other earlier loans with adverse information attached to 
them were closed. Mr G had relatively little open credit and so I do not consider that the 
information Loans 2 Go had at the time was enough to lead it to turn down Mr Gs 
application. 
And I consider Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks. So, I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint on irresponsible lending. 
I endorse the fact that Mr G still has the chance to take up Loans 2 Gos offer of a reduced 
balance. But as that was offered in the FRL before Mr G brought his complaint to us, I am 
not upholding his complaint. I am sure that Mr Gs representative can advise him on next 
steps.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman