DRN-2273029
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt properly process a balance transfer request 
on her credit card.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs T applied for a Virgin credit card. She also requested a balance 
transfer, so that Virgin Money would pay off the balance on a credit card she held with 
another bank, which Ill call B. Her application and the balance transfer were accepted.
Mrs T received account statements from Virgin Money, showing the balance transfer and its 
associated fee. However, about a year later Mrs T says she noticed that her account with B 
hadnt been credited with any payment from Virgin Money. She had been making payments 
to both Virgin Money and to B for more than a year. 
Mrs T asked Virgin Money to look into what had happened, but it said it had made the 
payment in line with Mrs Ts instructions. Because it had changed its own provider shortly 
after the balance transfer, its own records of the payment were limited, although it was able 
to provide the last four digits of the credit card account to which the payment had been 
made. They didnt match Mrs Ts account details. It maintained however that it had 
processed the balance transfer in accordance with Mrs Ts instructions. 
Mrs T referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He wasnt 
persuaded however that Virgin Money had made an error. It had taken reasonable steps to 
help her find out what had happened, but hadnt been successful in that. He didnt 
recommend that Virgin Money do anything further to resolve the complaint. Mrs T didnt 
accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, Virgin Money was unable to provide very much information about 
the account from which it accepted the balance transfer. B wasnt able to provide anything 
more either  in part because the full account number wasnt available. When we contacted 
B it didnt suggest it held another account for Mrs T, so it appears likely that the transfer was 
probably made to an account held by someone else. I cant rule out the possibility that Mrs T 
held another account at the time, but I think she would have realised what had happened if 
that were the case. 
I must therefore consider how it was that Virgin Money paid off a credit card account that 
appears not to have belonged to Mrs T and added the balance of that account to her own 
Virgin Money account. 
Virgin Money wouldnt have known the account with B wasnt in Mrs Ts name. Equally, B 
wouldnt have known that the payment it received from Virgin Money was linked to a balance 
transfer that Mrs T was carrying out. 
Ive considered therefore how Virgin Money came to provide B with the wrong account 
details. The last four digits of the account to which the payment was made were very 
different from the last four digits of Mrs Ts Halifax account. Im satisfied therefore that this 
wasnt a case of a single digit being mis-typed, for example. And I note too that the payment 
appears to have been successfully applied to a genuine account; had no account with the 
number provided existed, the payment would have been returned. 
It follows therefore that either Mrs T provided Virgin Money with a completely different (but 
valid) number from the one she intended to provide, or that Virgin Money  or its systems  
provided B with a completely different number from that provided by Mrs T. There is 
unfortunately very little evidence either way, but in my view its more likely that Mrs T made 
an error. Unfortunately, because the full account details arent available any more, it hasnt 
been possible to trace the payment. 
Its unfortunate as well that the holder of the account which received the payment hasnt 
come forward, as might have been expected if someone had received a payment of more 
than £3,600 in error. But I note as well that Mrs T appears not to have noticed for just over a 
year that her account with B hadnt been cleared and that she was still making payments 
towards it; had she realised that sooner, its possible that B (as well as Virgin Money) could 
have provided more information. I mean that not as a criticism, but as part of the explanation 
of why it hasnt been possible to say with more certainty what happened in this case. 
In the circumstances, however, I share the investigators view that it wouldnt be fair to 
conclude that Virgin Money was at fault in this case.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Bank Plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mrs Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman