DRN-2166812
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly held him mostly liable for an 
accident after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr W and another driver were involved in a collision. Mr W said the other 
driver moved forward as he was driving past her after shed partly emerged from a side road 
and had stopped her car in a yellow-hatched area. The other driver said Mr W drove past her 
stationary car too close and caused minor damage to it and to his own car. 
 
UKI tried to settle the claim with liability split equally, but the other insurer wouldnt agree to 
that. It sent UKI a statement from an independent witness who said she thought Mr W was at 
fault for the accident. The witness thought he should have waited for the other driver to 
complete her manoeuvre and clear the hatched area before he drove forward. UKI agreed to 
split lability for the accident 80:20 in the other drivers favour. Mr W strongly disagreed with 
that, as he said the witnesss account wasnt credible. He  said he wanted the 80% of the  
policy excess hed had to pay back and his no claims discount (NCD) to be restored. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. She said the policy gave UKI the right 
to decide how to settle any claim. She thought it had acted reasonably given the available 
evidence, including the witnesss statement. She noted that Mr W didnt think it was reliable, 
but she said there was no other evidence to contradict it. As Mr W didnt accept the 
investigators view, it was passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI has the right to settle the any claim as it sees fit, we only intervene if we think it 
appears to have acted unreasonably in doing so. Neither of the insurers in this case know 
what happened on the day of the accident, so they can only base their decisions on the 
available evidence. As each driver blamed the other  and either version of events was 
feasible - I think UKI acted reasonably in trying to settle the matter with liability split equally. 
Had it succeeded with that, Mr W would still have had to pay part of the policy excess and 
would still have lost at least some of his NCD. 
I understand why Mr W doesnt think the witnesss statement is persuasive. She made an 
error about the road being wet at the time of the accident and he thinks her view would have 
been blocked by traffic. I think the notes on UKIs file show that UKI considered Mr Ws 
concerns. But there was nothing to show that the witness wasnt independent. She said she 
didnt know the parties and that she was willing to attend court. And there was no other 
independent evidence (such as CCTV footage) to contradict what shed said. 
I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of the claim that the other insurer only 
provided UKI with the witnesss statement three months after the accident. Mr W was 
concerned by that, but UKI says the other insurer told it early on in the claims process that 
there was a witness  and there are often delays between insurers in sharing information. 
Mr W was also concerned that the statement was signed and dated only one day after the 
accident took place. I can see why he queried that, but it isnt a basis for dismissing the 
statement. And although he wanted UKI to contact the witness directly and take its own 
statement from her, thats not standard practice. The witness was supporting the other 
insurers stance. She had no duty to co-operate with UKI. I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
take the view that contacting her could be seen as harassment.   
UKIs only option apart from settling the claim was to argue in court that the other driver was 
fully at fault for the accident. Insurers only take legal action if they think theres a fair 
prospect of success with it, and we think thats a reasonable approach to take. I can see why 
UKI didnt think it was a viable option here. In Mr Ws opinion, the witness would not have 
attended court, but that may not have been what happened. And even if she didnt attend, 
the parties would still have blamed each other, so the outcome is still likely to have been that 
liability was shared between them. 
I understand why Mr W feels so strongly about the way the claim was settled. He thinks as 
hes been truthful, he shouldnt have lost out as a result of the accident. He maintains that  
the other driver and her witness have succeeded in presenting a false account of what 
happened. I can see why he finds that so upsetting, but UKI hasnt said that it doesnt 
believe Mr Ws version of events. Unfortunately, in liability disputes, it always depends on 
what can be proved and whats more likely to have happened. Mr W would always have lost 
his NCD and had to pay part of the policy excess unless the evidence had allowed UKI to 
hold the other driver fully at fault, which it didnt. 
As I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in the way it settled the claim, I cant uphold Mr Ws 
complaint, but it remains open to him to take legal action should he still want to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman