DRN-1496652
 
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out PPI on the phone at the same time as he applied for a credit card. It gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment protection. The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional, he was led to believe he had to have it. 
Capital One doesnt have a recording of the phone call. But this isnt surprising given how 
long ago it was  and doesnt automatically mean it was mis-sold. Based on what we know 
of Capital Ones sales process at the time, I think its most likely it wouldve made Mr B 
aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. Ive seen a copy of the script that was in use 
and that makes clear the PPI is optional. And Ive seen no evidence that the script wasnt 
followed for this sale. As PPI was added to his account, I think its most likely Mr B agreed to 
it. I have considered his comments carefully but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. 
Mr B says he recalls the PPI was arranged with advice. But from what we know about how 
Capital One sold PPI over the phone at this time, I dont think it would have recommended 
the cover to Mr B. There's no evidence that it reviewed his circumstances before making a 
tailored recommendation. This means it didnt need to make sure the PPI was right for him. It 
was up to him to decide.
Its possible, as Mr B says, the information Capital One gave him about the PPI wasnt as 
clear or as complete as it should have been. But it seems Mr B chose to take out the policy 
and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr B says he was entitled to up to six months full pay if he was sick but the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to this, and up to 12 months. Mr B says he had savings worth up to three months salary but the PPI would have allowed 
him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
his future needs. Mr B also said friends and family would have helped. But thats not suitable 
alternative protection  its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. So 
overall, given his circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr B has lost out because of anything Capital One did wrong.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman