DRN-3761330
The complaint
Mr M complains Loanchoice Limited provided him with loans that he couldnt afford to repay
them. He also says these loans put him in a debt cycle.
What happened
Mr M initially complaint about 10 home collected loans advanced between September 2018
and December 2020. Some of these 10 loans were held jointly with another third party  but
the Financial Ombudsman Service has been asked not to investigate these. 
So, the only loans that Im considering in the table below are loan 6 and loans 8  10 (in 
bold). A summary of Mr Ms borrowing, based on the information provided to us from 
Loanchoice, can be found below.
loan 
numberloan amount agreement 
date
1 £200.00 04/09/2018
2 £400.00 26/11/2018
3 £500.00 18/02/2019
4 £300.00 29/04/2019
5 £600.00 01/07/2019
6 £350.00 02/09/2019
7 £750.00 11/11/2019
8 £350.00 03/02/2020
9 £300.00 26/10/2020
10 £500.00 07/12/2020
The loan terms appear to have arranged from 12 to 26 weeks. However, all of Mr Ms sole
loans were due to be repaid over a period of 26 weeks.
Mr M has had some problems repaying loans 9 and 10 and outstanding balances remain
due to Loanchoice. All the other loans have been settled.
After Mr M complained to Loanchoice it issued its final response letter (FRL) in
November 2021. It didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Unhappy with this response he referred
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ms irresponsible lending complaint and he thought the
complaint should be upheld in full for all of the loans that he was considering (sole).
The adjudicator explained that Loanchoice had an obligation to make sure the lending wasnt 
unsustainable or harmful for Mr M. Thinking about that, and looking at the overall lending 
pattern the adjudicator was satisfied the lending was harmful for Mr M by the time loan 6 was 
advanced. So, this loan as well as loans 8  10 shouldnt have been granted to him.
Mr M appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Loanchoice didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. Firstly, Loanchoice 
accepted the adjudicators findings about loans 9 and 10 and agreed to put things right for 
Mr M as outlined in his assessment. It said that Mr M had taken longer to repay loan 8 and 
while payments had been erratic, the agent suggested this may have been due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Secondly, Ive summarised its comments as to why it wasnt going to offer to put things right
for Mr M for loans 6 and 8;
Proportionate checks were carried out for each loan which included looking at Mr Ms 
bank statements and Loanchoice said given the amount it could see being spent on 
fuel it was confident in his earnings as a taxi driver.
Not all loans granted to Mr M were increasing in value.
Mr M paid on time and historically didnt have any arrears.
The reasons Mr M gave for needing the loans  such as Christmas was credible.
Loanchoices products arent for short term cash flow problems but generally for one 
off purchases.
Many of the loans were repaid early for example loan 6 was for a holiday and repaid 
after 22 weeks and an interest rebate was provided. Loanchoice says this 
demonstrates the loans were affordable.
The adjudicator responded to Loanchoice to explain why in his views its comments hadnt
changed his mind about loans 6 and 8.
Loanchoice provided further submissions to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Ive 
summarised these comments below;
Rigorous affordability checks were carried out.
The bank statements Loanchoice saw before approving each loan showed 
his commitments were sustainable.
The bank statements only showed small fees for the overdraft and there were 
no other significant issues that Loanchoice was aware of.
Loanchoice says a credit search was carried out and showed no County 
Court Judgements since October 2015 and no further lending enquires.
All of Mr Ms loans were repaid early apart from loans 9 and 10.
Loans were granted for one off expenses.
The amounts Mr M was advanced went up and down.
Loanchoice had complied with the industry regulator when considering these loans.
Loanchoice provided a copy of the August 2020 Repeat lending report and a copy 
of a 2021 review into the unsecured lending market undertaken by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
In Loanchoices view  Mr M hasnt been caused harm.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide on the 
lending.
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. A copy of my provisional findings follows this in smaller font and 
italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It may help, and for clarity for all parties concerned, that I outline the legal and regulatory
environment when the lending was approved. So below Ive outlined what I consider to be
the key regulatory requirements on the part of Loanchoice before providing the lending.
The legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Prior to these loans, regulation was held by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) (up to 31 March
2014). And from 1 April 2014, regulation was passed to the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA).
In the FCAs guidance there are references made to the OFT guidance which is called the
Irresponsible lending Guidance (ILG). What this shows, in effect, is a continuity of regulation
and continuity of requirements for what Loanchoice needed to do before each loan was
approved. In November 2018 the FCA rules were reworded but this didnt significantly
change the meaning of what Loanchoice was required to do before lending was granted.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Loanchoice gave Mr M all the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit
Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such as 
Loanchoice. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to
responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered
into a regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets
out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. These
rules were subsequently updated into CONC 5.2A but this didnt occur until November 2018,
which is after the lending had started. So the wording of the rules applicable to the lending
for Mr M is: a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2.3 then details and outlines some of the factors that may be relevant to a lender
when deciding what a proportionate check may look like for each loan application.
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required
by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to
factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands
the customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer
CONC 5.3.1G(6) also provides guidance, that beyond the loan being pounds and pence
affordable the loan also has to be sustainable.
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
From November 2018, the FCA re-wording some of CONC 5, and so this became
CONC5.2A. Ive not included all sections of it, but instead, the below is to demonstrate a
continuity of regulation around what was expected of Loanchoice.
CONC 5.2.A.4 says
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of
a customer before:
(1) entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
(2) significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement; or
(3) significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
CONC 5.2A.7 then goes onto explain that the creditworthiness assessment should be based
on sufficient information that Loanchoice is aware of at the time the assessment was carried
out or obtained, where appropriate from the customer or the credit reference agencies.
Importantly, CONC 5.2A.10 says
The firm must consider:
(1) the risk that the customer will not make repayments under the agreement by
their due dates (this is sometimes referred to as credit risk); and
(2) the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments under the
agreement in accordance with CONC 5.2A.12R (referred to as affordability
risk in this section).
And 5.2A.12 provide some examples must also consider Mr Ms ability to afford the
repayments over the lifetime of the agreement, considering a number of different factors and
examples are provided  such as his income.
Finally, CONC 5.2A.20 and it then goes on to provide some examples.
(1) The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that
the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable
one, based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to,
the individual circumstances of each case.
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Loanchoice is part of. This letter
was published after Mr Ms started borrowing. However, this letter didnt include any new
rules but deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about whether their previous
lending was unaffordable. I do think that this offers some insight on the FCAs approach on
its rules and guidance. So, I consider it to be of relevance in this case.
The letter sets out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its
view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed 
their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved 
issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two keyways that consumers may be harmed across the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may not be 
able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter. The section 
entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in the 
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can better 
understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and firms. This 
work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms 
marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of relending for consumers. 
We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this 
work, we will proactively engage with home- collected credit firms to ensure they understand 
our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a result of the new 
rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement 
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in assessing 
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit customers finances 
are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and low financial resilience. 
Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with all our affordability 
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the
Dear CEO letter we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at 
HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about many of 
the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling complaints 
appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root 
causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant 
decisions. We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling 
procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued
to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
I accept that this letter, refers to high cost short term lenders, which Loanchoice isnt one.
But I think it is useful to see how the FCA looked at some of the issues. Turning to the Dear
CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was mentioned in the
Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter.
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach
to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financialombudsman.
org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these
examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective
procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were
flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we
were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on
HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability
assessments were key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they
are making responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.Finally, in August 2020 the FCA released a report into Relending by high-cost lenders. This
report does apply to Loanchoice as its part of the FCAs high-cost credit portfolio. Again this
was released after Mr Ms borrowing relationship started, but Loanchoice has raised this
report in its response to the adjudicator so its worth looking at and considering the
conclusions.
There are a number of points raised by the FCA, and I consider the below most pertinent
when thinking about this case  I have bullet pointed them below (taken from the report);
We have significant concerns that repeat borrowing could be a strong indicator of a 
pattern of dependency on high-cost credit and levels of debt that are harmful to the 
customer.
But we are concerned that relending can move from a positive customer 
experience into one which causes harm.
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms 
(but which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we 
highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a pattern 
of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability 
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are 
making proportionate and responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become
unsustainable for customers.
The above, are the rules and guidance that Im considering when thinking about whether
Loanchoice did anything wrong when it lent to Mr M. To be clear, I am not retrospectively
applying the rules, I am applying the rules that were relevant to Loanchoice at the time it lent
to Mr M.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Loanchoice did anything wrong when
it provided Mr M with his loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind everything that Ive set out above and our long-established approach to
considering these types of complaints (which is also set out on our website), I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loanchoice, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would
those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point
where Loanchoice ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did Loanchoice act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Loanchoice did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Loanchoice, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
itself that Mr M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note the FCA at the time, didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an
assessment of affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and
sources of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness 
would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and circumstances of a consumer. 
That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might 
be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other 
circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit
in a sustainable way.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loanchoice should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include, but
are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).
Loanchoice considers its checks were appropriate and complied with the regulations at all
times when providing this lending.
It seems for each loan Loanchoice wouldve asked Mr M for details of his income and
expenditure and it also says that it asked to review his bank statements.
Finally, in response to the adjudicators assessment it said that a credit search was carried
out but it hasnt said for which loan(s) this was for, how many of these searches were carried
out and it hasnt provided either the full results or the summary of the results that it saw.
So, it is difficult for me to be able to say what exactly it knew about other credit that Mr M may
(or may not) have had at a certain point in his relationship with Loanchoice.
Loans 1  5 and loan 7
These loans arent being considered because Mr M has asked the Financial Ombudsman to
only look at loans that he was given solely  so I say no more about them.
Loan 6
The adjudicator upheld this loan because he concluded these loans were harmful for Mr M
because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to him. But I dont think, Loanchoice
wouldve thought this given the reasons Ive gone on to explain below.
Loanchoice has provided a copy of the income and expenditure form completed by the agent
when the loan application was made. Mr M declared he had a weekly income of £500 as a
taxi driver (after expenses for the vehicle such as insurance). He also declared his weeklyoutgoings came to £249 for things such as rent and utilities.
Based solely on this income and expenditure information, it wouldve been reasonable for
Loanchoice to have believed this loan was affordable for Mr M because Loanchoice was
aware that he had £251 per week in disposable income, to pay his total weekly commitment
to Loanchoice of £21.
Loanchoice has mentioned that one or more credit searches may have been carried out at
some point in the lending relationship. But as Ive said above copies of these results havent
been provided so I dont know what it saw and when. Equally, Mr M hasnt provided a copy
of his credit file so I cant really comment on what Loanchoice may (or may not) have seen.
Loanchoice also provided copies of the screen shots of his bank statements which it saw
when the loan application was completed  it had details of Mr Ms bank statements from the
end of July 2019 until 31 August 2019. Ive looked at these bank statements to see whether
there were any signs of either financial difficulties or anything else that Loanchoice needed
to consider before it advanced this loan.
There are a couple of bills that I can see including an energy company, a telephone
communication company and what looks like council tax. There are also payments for things
such as petrol. However, everything else is either cash withdrawals or transfers to other third
parties. I would add, that there was a sizable cheque deposit made at the end of July 2019,
and this isnt clear whether it was Mr Ms wages or something else.
Whatever the cheque was for, the account remained in credit for the whole time that
Loanchoice reviewed the bank statements. I cant see any evidence of other lending,
returned payment fees or anything else that may have given Loanchoice cause for concern.
Based on the bank statements the loan wouldve looked affordable and sustainable.
Ive also considered that this was Mr Ms first solo loan but as far as I can see there hadnt
been any obvious repayment problems with his previous joint loans. He had also been
indebted to Loanchoice for around a year, which couldve been a sign that he was using
credit to cover a short-term need, rather than one off items and so couldve been a sign that
there was more going on in the background.
However, I also cant ignore that Mr Ms lending wasnt always increasing for example, this
loan was smaller than loans 2, 3 and 5. So it cant even, in my view, be argued that Mr Ms
loans were increasing in a manner that was unsustainable.
Also, in this case given what Loanchoice has noted on the application form it doesnt seem
to have taken any evidence of Mr Ms income, it just seems to have relied on that he
received around £500 cash each week  which wouldve been self-declared. Mr M says his
income was much less than this  around £850 a month so around £212 per week. However, no 
evidence of what Mr Ms actual income was at the time has been provided.
If further information could be provided to show that Mr Ms income was as low as he said it
was, then Id be minded to conclude that this loan ought to not have been granted because
at this point in the lending relationship I think it wouldve been fair for Loanchoice to have a
full and complete picture of Mr Ms circumstances. While it has done that as part of its review
of the bank statements, I cant see anywhere in the bank statements anything to show
confirmation of his income.
So, while I accept the adjudicator says this loan was unsustainable for Mr M I dont think in
this case I can argue that for the reasons Ive outlined above. Overall, based on the
evidence that I have I think it was reasonable and proportionate for Loanchoice to carry out
the types of checks that it did and these checks showed it that Mr M was in a position to
afford the loan. Therefore, Im intending to not uphold Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 8Again, the adjudicator thought this loan ought to have been upheld because the lending was
now unsustainable for Mr M. Ive thought about this carefully but in this case, I dont think I
can fairly conclude this.
This loan was taken out after loan 7 had been repaid and was Mr Ms second sole loan and
it was for the same amount as loan 6. I accept, that Mr M had been indebted with
Loanchoice (by loan 8) for around 17 months and in that time had taken seven previous
loans  but none of these loans overlapped and as Ive said above there werent any obvious
repayment problems.
In some situations, this could be a sign that he was now reliant on these loans or at the very
least having longer term money management problems. But I also must keep in mind that,
on the evidence I have now, these loans were being repaid without any obvious repayment
problems and Mr Ms overall indebtedness didnt now seem to be increasing.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Loanchoice wouldve or ought to have realised
these loans were unsustainable for Mr M, but that doesnt mean Loanchoice did all it
shouldve done before advancing these loans.
Mr M was committed to making 26 weekly repayments of £21, and Ive thought about that
when considering what checks Loanchoice did (or likely did) before this loan was approved.
For this loan, it seems it did the same sort of checks that it did for loan 6. It completed an
application form which ought to contain details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. However,
the form that has been signed by Mr M on 3 February 2020 is blank. No income or
expenditure is noted. I find this highly unlikely that Mr M had no expenditure and or no
income, so Loanchoice may have thought that Mr Ms situation was similar to that at the time
of loan 6  if it did think that it hasnt said so. But based on the information it gathered at loan
6 it may have thought it was reasonable to lend.
For this loan, Loanchoice had seen screen shots of Mr Ms online banking transactions, it
saw these from 17 December 2019 to 31 January 2020  so shortly before this loan was
approved. Again, I cant see any evidence of a salary, but the outgoings are broadly similar,
there are numerous transfers into and out of the account to at least four other third parties.
But no further explanation has been provided as to what these transfers were for.
There isnt anything as far as I can see that wouldve led Loanchoice to conclude this loan
wasnt affordable. There is only one overdraft fee of 9 pence and no evidence of any other
lending or anything else that may have suggested financial difficulties.
I still have concerns about Mr Ms actual income because I still think that Loanchoice needed
to have checked and verified this. It doesnt look like it did this, but I dont have anything from
Mr M to show what his income actually was at the time. Without this, given the bank
statements and what else Loanchoice knew I think it was just about reasonable for it to
believe that Mr M could afford the loan repayments. Therefore, I am intending to not uphold
Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
Loanchoice ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in a
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further
loans?
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mr M by
Loanchoice, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and
what unfolded during Mr Ms lending history with Loanchoice. This is because, there may
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates that the
lending was unsustainable.
Ive already concluded above, and the same goes for here, that the checks Loanchoice had
carried out werent by this time proportionate and so I cant fairly conclude that its checks
were rigorous and so opens the door that Mr M may have been taking these loans in anunsustainable manner.
So, referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my
decision, Loanchoice was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular
the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other
reasonable commitments.
However, this point was likely reached around loans 9 and 10 because as Loanchoice
pointed out Mr M had some problems repaying loan 8. So, I dont think I need to say
anything further about these loans or the reasons why they uphold because Loanchoice
already accepts something went wrong when loans 9 and 10 were granted.
Did Loanchoice act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that
leads me to conclude Loanchoice acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some
other way.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr M and Loanchoice were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but no later than 18 October 2022. 
Mr M emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service confirming he agreed with the outcome in 
the provisional decision. 
Loanchoice didnt acknowledge or provide any other response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M has accepted the findings of the provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I previously made. I dont think Loanchoice made an unreasonable 
decision to provide loans six or eight. In addition, Loanchoice had already accepted, in 
response to the adjudicators assessment that something went wrong when loans nine and 
ten were granted. 
Ive therefore outlined below what Loanchoice needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr M in relation to loans nine and ten.  
Putting things right
Loanchoice should put things right for the loans it has already accepted something went 
wrong with  loan 9 and 10. 
A. Loanchoice should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they 
had been repayments of the principal towards these loans. If this results in Mr M 
having made overpayments then Loanchoice should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Loanchoice should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step C.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A can be used 
to repay any balance that remains due. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance Loanchoice 
should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan but Id remind 
Loanchoice of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly and with forbearance.
C. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 9 and 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ms 
credit file once they have been repaid. Loanchoice doesnt have to remove loans 9 
and 10 from Mr Ms credit file until these have been repaid, but Loanchoice should 
still remove any adverse information recorded about them.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loanchoice to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint in part.
Loanchoice Limited should put things right for Mr M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman