DRN-2329012
The complaint
Mr M complains that he hasnt seen the expected increase in his pension income following a 
redress payment of over 33% that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) paid into his pension. This 
was after it reviewed its advice to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits 
to a section 32 personal pension in 2000.
What happened
In August 1990 Mr M agreed to transfer his OPS benefits into a section 32 pension plan with 
Pearl Assurance (now part of Phoenix, which is who Ill refer to throughout this decision). In 
June 2000 Mr M was told that his transfer had been reviewed under the industry wide 
pensions review and the advice had been found to be unsuitable. He said he was told that 
his current pension policy would be increased by 33.1% to make up for any shortfall hed 
suffered, so he completed the necessary paperwork accepting the offer of redress. 
Mr M says he believed this meant his pension, which hed been told might provide around 
£7,920 per annum based on a lower end assumed rate of return, should end up providing 
around £10,000 per annum.  But he says that when he received an illustration prior to 
drawing his benefits in October 2019 that value had fallen to £6,710  even after the addition 
of the 33.1% uplift. He thought that Phoenix had forgotten to include the redress funds into 
his policy  so he asked it to investigate the matter. He said he wanted to draw his pension 
on his normal retirement date (NRD) of 15 December 2019.  
Phoenix explained to Mr M that his policy had been included in the pensions review and as 
such hed accepted the offer of redress in full and final settlement, and it wasnt required to 
revisit his case. It explained that hed benefitted from having a GMP included within the plan, 
which meant he received a greater pension than from having the original 33.1% uplift added 
to his plan and then using that fund value to calculate the pension income. It also said that 
hed received a greater GMP than he would have from the OPS because the GMP had been 
revalued on his NRD. It said any other figures hed received within correspondence had 
been projections and not a guarantee of what he might get.  
Phoenix did apologise as it accepted Mr M couldnt see that hed benefitted from the review 
redress and it also paid him £75 for the delay in answering his complaint. 
  
Mr M didnt accept that resolution, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. He didnt think it should be upheld and supported this view by 
explaining that the pensions review was meant to be a way to consolidate any future losses 
at a particular point in time. He said Phoenix wasnt required to revisit the calculation it had 
carried out, although he said it was unfortunate that the assumptions used in the review 
hadnt turned out to be accurate and that the actual returns had been lower than forecast. 
He also said that he hadnt seen any evidence that Phoenix had made any guarantees about 
Mr Ms pension aside from the GMP  which he noted was increased by £382.52 per annum 
on the NRD. So, he did think that Mr M had received some benefit from the uplift in the value 
of his fund.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he accepted the offer he was made in 2000 at face value as 
it promised that his policy with the Pearl would be increased by 33.1%. He said he 
assumed this meant the policy would be increased even if that meant the GMP needed to be 
increased. 
He thought Phoenix should have been more specific around the redress he would receive 
and how it would affect his final pension. He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about this matter and I have some sympathy for his 
position as it looks as though he hasnt received any benefit from the redress Phoenix added 
to his plan in 2000. But I agree with investigator that Phoenix hasnt done anything wrong 
here  which I know will come as a disappointment to Mr M  so Ill explain why.
Phoenix has accepted that it gave Mr M unsuitable advice to transfer his OPS benefits and 
paid redress into his plan following a review of the transfer under the industry wide pensions 
review. But Mr M says Phoenix specifically told him that his policy would be increased by 
33.1%, so he expected its value to be approximately that much greater than various 
projections hed been given. He doesnt feel he has received any benefit from the review and 
subsequent redress. 
I should first explain that the aim of the pensions review was to draw a line  as far as was 
possible  under any pension mis selling and correct matters at that point in time. It was 
designed to be a one-off exercise to recognise the problems of trying to wait until someone 
retired, which would have been around 20 years in Mr Ms case, before assessing any loss.  
   
The compensation calculation was used to work out what would be required to increase the 
value of Mr Ms section 32 plan to provide the same level of benefits as his OPS would have 
provided. The calculations were based on a number of assumptions of what might happen 
between then and the retirement date. The regulator had set out these assumptions and told 
businesses how to carry out the calculations. But unfortunately, with investment returns and 
annuity rates subsequently falling, the assumptions that were used have meant that the 
benefits provided by Mr Ms pension are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated. 
  
So, although the value of Mr Ms section 32 plan was increased with the aim of matching the 
benefits payable from the OPS, subsequent events mean that wont happen from the uplifted 
fund value Mr M held. It seems reasonable that Phoenix augmented the notional capital sum 
of Mr Ms plan by 33.1%, as required by the guidelines within the pensions review  and I 
can see that Phoenix did that. But one of the features of these types of plans was that they 
had to include a GMP to make up for some elements of what had been replaced following 
the transfer. It didnt matter whether the value of the fund was enough to meet the GMP  if 
there was a shortfall it was a requirement for Phoenix to make up that shortfall in order to 
provide a GMP on the NRD  which is what happened here. 
So, I dont think Phoenix should have to increase the GMP by the 33.1% uplift  it had 
already done that on the notional capital sum, which it would have paid to Mr M if that meant 
the fund value could provide a pension greater than the GMP. Therefore, Mr M did have the opportunity to either benefit from either the uplift in his fund value or the GMP  whichever 
provided the greater pension. I think thats fair and reasonable and ultimately it put Mr M as 
close to the position hed be in now without the unsuitable advice  but it was based on a 
calculation that was carried out in line with the regulators requirements.
I know Mr M says Phoenix should have been clearer in explaining what parts of his policy 
would be increased due to the redress. He says he had to make his decision to accept the 
offer in 2000 based on what Phoenix said at the time  which he feels was misleading. But I 
think Phoenix said it would increase the notional capital sum of the plan from £33,377 to 
£44,424.70 and increase the death benefit in the same way, which it did. And I think there 
are numerous separate references to how the GMP would work in the correspondence Mr M 
was provided with, so I dont think Phoenix misled Mr M in how it would apply its offer of 
redress. 
Mr M has also referred to various figures he received which suggested his pension would be 
higher than he was eventually paid  without the inclusion of the redress. And I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration about being told he might receive more than he did. But these 
communications Mr M received were illustrations and projections of what he might get and 
made no guarantees. I havent seen any evidence to show that Phoenix made any 
guarantees to Mr M about what he might receive  apart from the GMP. 
 
Ultimately here its not Phoenixs fault that any additional shortfalls occurred after the review 
 thats with the benefit of hindsight and changing economic factors, which werent known at 
the time of the calculation. From what Ive seen Phoenix carried out the exercise correctly 
and paid the appropriate redress amount. But in any case, this was the regulators decision 
about how to deal with the pension mis selling problem and its not something we can now 
challenge or revisit. 
Mr M accepted Phoenixs offer in 2000 as confirmed in its letter which said, I agree that I will 
accept this offer in full and final settlement of any and all claims I may have against Pearl or 
its agents in connection with or arising out of the sale of my Pearl personal pension plan. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Phoenix to revisit its calculation from 2000 or to 
consider applying the redress to the higher GMP that Mr M has received from his plan.
I have noted that Phoenix has paid Mr M £75 for the delay in answering his complaint. Thats 
not part of Mr Ms complaint here, and any in case its not something we can consider as a 
matter on its own. So, I wont be making any comment about the offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman