DRN-3580472
The complaint
Ms G complains about the lack of advice and help she received from National Westminster 
Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster) when her overdraft buffer was reduced.
What happened
Ms G held an account with a £500 interest free buffer on her overdraft. In 2018 the interest 
free buffer was reduced to £250. Ms G complained to Ulster that she wasnt informed of this 
change. Ulster said a copy of the revised terms were sent to all customers prior to the 
change taking place.
Ms G was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Gs concerns and reached the conclusion that Ulster 
had notified Ms G about its decision to decrease the buffer on the account and that in this 
regard it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ms G disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Ms G has experienced and see if Ulster has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms G back in the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Ms G has made a number of general complaint points about the service she has received 
from Ulster regarding products she held with it. Just to be clear my decision only relates to 
Ms Gs complaint regarding the lack of help and advice she received around the overdraft 
buffer changes. All other complaint points have or are being delt with under separate 
complaints.
When Ulster makes a change to a product or service it has a duty to provide its customers  
with clear, fair and not misleading information about the changes in order for them to be able 
to make an informed decision about whether the product is suitable for them going forward.
Ulster says that all customers were made aware of the updated terms and changes to the 
overdraft buffer prior to the changes taking place. Ms G says she never received this 
information. But even if she didnt, I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was due to an 
error on Ulsters part. Indeed, at some point she became aware of the change as she was 
able to raise a complaint in November 2018 about this. And I can see that Ulster wrote to Ms 
G in January 2019 and at that point she was given a further explanation regarding the 
overdraft buffer and informed about how she would be charged going forward.
So Im satisfied Ms G has been given clear information about the changes made to her 
interest free buffer and I cant say that Ulster has made any errors regarding the information 
it provided Ms G. Nor have I seen anything to show me that Ms G had requested any further 
information or help understanding the change to the interest free buffer.
However, it is also my understanding that Ms G has received a number of refunds of 
overdraft charges which has put her back in the position she wouldve been in if the 
reduction in the interest free buffer hadnt taken place. So even if Id found that Ulster had 
made an error and not notified her about changes to the interest free buffer or not provided 
sufficient help - I dont think there is anything more it should do. So on that basis I do not 
uphold Ms Gs complaint and Im not requiring Ulster to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman