DRN-4081249
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of what he feels was a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr A was looking to get some work done to the gardens at his property and so 
listed the work he wanted doing on some job listings websites. He was then contacted by a 
builder who said they were interested in doing the work. Mr A and the builder discussed the 
work to be done, the builder provided a quote and Mr A agreed for the work to go ahead.
The builder started the work and completed some of the work agreed in the quote. And Mr A 
made three payments to the builder from his Starling account over the next few weeks, to 
pay for materials. Ive set out the payments Mr A made below:
Date Amount Details
10 April 2022 £3,500 Not disputed
13 April 2022 £3,500 Disputed
22 April 2022 £3,000 Disputed
Mr A says the work he was paying for with the first payment on 10 April 2022 was 
completed, and so hes not disputing this payment. But he says little further work was 
completed as the builder then started not showing up to the property, and not working for 
very long when he did show up. He says the builder became difficult to contact and, after 
they didnt show up to the property for a number of weeks, the builder ultimately stopped 
replying to him. Mr A then reported the payments he had made to Starling as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Starling investigated but said that, as the builder had done a reasonable amount of work, it 
felt this was a civil dispute between Mr A and the builder. So it didnt agree to refund the 
payments Mr A had made. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Starlings response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They said they felt this was a civil dispute 
between Mr A and the builder, as the evidence suggested the builder was operating as a 
genuine business at the time and hadnt intended to scam Mr A. So they didnt think Starling 
should be responsible for the money Mr A had lost or should have to refund the payments he 
had made. Mr A didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Starling to refund the money Mr A has 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Starling should refund the money Mr A lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether he has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether the 
builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud him.
The builder started the work at Mr As property and appears to have worked there for a 
number of weeks. When speaking to Starling, Mr A suggested the builder had done around 
40% of the total work that was agreed. And from Mr As descriptions and photos of the work 
that was done, it appears the builder did a significant amount of work, and more than just 
destructive work  including digging out the existing front and rear gardens, installing fencing 
and laying some concrete and patio tiles.
Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible in order to get the maximum 
possible profit in the shortest period of time. So the builder here did more work than Id 
expect from a scammer who never intended to complete the work.
The reasons the builder gave Mr A for the delays and for why payments needed to be made, 
such as bad weather, the global pandemic and to order materials, also seem plausible and I 
dont think these necessarily suggest the builder was trying to scam him.
The bank the payments were sent to has also told us that it hadnt received any other scam 
reports against the builders account around this time. And from what Ive seen of the activity 
on the account the money was sent to, it appears to have been run as I would expect a 
legitimate account to have been.
Mr A has mentioned that the builder started work at the property later than the agreed start 
date, was difficult to get in touch with, often turned up late and would only work for a short 
period of time before leaving the property again. But while this may suggest the builder was 
unprofessional or not working to the standards Mr A expected, I dont think it necessarily 
suggests they intended to scam him.
I appreciate how Mr A feels about this case, and that the work at his property was left 
unfinished and he has had to pay for another builder to finish the work. And some of the 
information he has sent us does suggest the builder wasnt acting legitimately. But I must 
make a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a 
legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work 
wasnt completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud Mr A, or that Mr A has been the victim of a scam here.So I dont think the payments Mr A made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, or 
that Starling should be required to refund the money he lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr A has found himself in, and Im in no way saying he did 
anything wrong or that he doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Starling responsible for 
the money hes lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman