DRN-3778036
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr E, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
My references to Lloyds include its underwriting syndicate and the agent it used to look into
the claim.
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. M claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19. Mr E said a friend, Mr C, had felt unwell while visiting 
the business premises on 21 March 2020 just ahead of Ms closure on 23 March 2020 in line 
with the Governments lockdown regulations. Mr C was diagnosed with Covid-19 and was 
admitted to hospital in early April 2020 until mid-June 2020.
Lloyds turned down Ms claim. Lloyds said that for the claim to succeed M had to show that 
there had been an outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises and that the premises had closed as a result of that outbreak. Even if Lloyds 
accepted there had been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, M had closed the premises in 
line with the Governments lockdown restrictions rather than because of Mr Cs Covid-19 
symptoms.
Lloyds also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance 
test case FCA v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd and others [2021] UKSC 1 (Supreme Court 
decision) did not impact the outcome of the claim under Ms policy wording.
In response to Ms complaint, Lloyds reviewed the claim again. Lloyds said it could find no 
evidence of an occurrence of a notifiable disease having been present at the business 
premises or that this occurrence was the specific cause of Ms closure.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, M brought its complaint to our service. M referred to the 
earlier judgement of the High Court in the FCA test case proceedings The FCA v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd and others [2020] EWHC 2448 (the High Court decision). In summary, 
M said that:
Covid-19 was a disease as defined in Ms policy.
The closure of Ms premises following the Government lockdown was sufficient for 
the policy to respond.
There did not have to be a diagnosis of Covid-19 at the time of closure for the policy 
to provide cover (even though M had shown that Mr C had been diagnosed with 
Covid-19).
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said M would need to provide evidence that 
Mr C had been at Ms premises at the time of its business closure. She also said that M 
would have to show there was more than one case of Covid-19 to show there had been an 
outbreak of disease.
In summary, M responded to say:
It was open to our investigator to contact Mr C for evidence to prove he was at the 
premises and was diagnosed with Covid-19. Ms position is that it can discharge the 
burden of proof to the legal standard, referring specifically to the High Court decision.
M did not agree with our investigators use of the word outbreak to mean it needs 
to be shown that more than one staff member or customer was more likely than not 
to have had Covid-19 when on the premises. M said the High Court decision 
supported Ms position that there did not need to be more than one case for an 
outbreak.
Ms policy did not say there needed to be two people with a notifiable disease for 
there to be cover; that definition had been implied by our investigator and is not in 
line with the courts or insurers definitions of the word.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms complaint. She reviewed the paragraphs to which M had 
referred. But she said the Supreme Court did not make a decision about policies that 
required a notifiable disease at the premises as in Ms policy. The High Court case focused 
on different policy terms being 25 mile radius terms (or radius clauses). She did not 
consider an outbreak could mean one person and, in any event, M had not provided 
evidence that Mr C had visited the premises around the time of the lockdown. She said 
M had stopped trading due to the Government lockdown and there was no evidence to 
suggest an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises. So, she thought Lloyds had fairly turned 
down Ms claim.
M did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, M said:
Lloyds had refused Ms claim on the basis that there was no evidence of a person 
with Covid-19 at the premises and because the premises were closed down as a 
result of the government lockdown. Lloyds itself had not defined the word outbreak 
but our investigator had done so. 
The High Court and Supreme Court did not share the investigators view that it is 
acceptable to distinguish between cases inside and outside the premises. Also, both 
courts had, in fact, considered at the premises clauses, and here M made specific 
reference to the QBE1 insurance policy (being one of the exemplar policies in the 
test case).
Our investigator had been wrong to suggest, in her assessment, that Mr C had been 
diagnosed in July 2020. The medical evidence provided showed hed been 
diagnosed on 3 April 2020, just a few days after hed visited Ms premises.
Our investigator accepted that the hospital letter of July 2020 said that Mr C had been 
admitted on 3 April 2020. But she maintained her view that there had not been more than 
one case at the premises. She had reviewed the High Courts decision but the paragraphs to 
which M had referred related to radius clauses, which were different from at the premises 
clauses.M maintained its position given the QBE1 policy included at the premises wording. Mr E 
said it was not for our service to insert our own meaning into an insurance policy, not least 
where the courts have concluded that an outbreak can mean at least one instance of Covid-
19. He restated his position that Mr C had been at Ms premises, and the courts said a 
diagnosis was not necessary for there to be cover, merely symptoms together with medical 
evidence (which M had supplied).
My provisional decision
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I reached the same outcome as our 
investigator, but for additional reasons to the ones she had given. I issued a provisional 
decision to allow both parties the opportunity to comment before I reached my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly summarised the evidence, I have read and carefully considered 
all the evidence that M has provided in support of its claim. In this decision I have focused on 
the issues that I consider to be central to this dispute.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ms claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ms policy covers loss of net takings directly as a 
result of:
Closure  of the premises by a competent authority due to:
a) An outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. So, for this extension to 
provide cover for Ms claim, the closure of the premises would need to be as a result of an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises.
The word outbreak isnt defined in the policy. M says that it is not for our service to 
consider how a particular word in the policy should be defined, but I do not agree. In 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, our rules require 
me, amongst other things, to take into account relevant law and regulations1. This includes 
considering the terms and conditions of the policy in dispute. The policy sets out the 
contractual terms between M and Lloyds. In deciding whether Lloyds has fairly applied 
those terms and conditions, I need to assess the wording of the policy to include words and 
phrases that have not been specifically defined in the policy itself.
Some dictionary definitions give the meaning of outbreak as something (generally 
unwelcome, such as a war) suddenly occurring. In the case of war, for example, this would 
1 The Financial Conduct Authority Handbook DISP 3.6.4 R (a) (a) require only one war. The World Health Organisations website says that an outbreak is: 
an occurrence of cases of a disease in excess of what would normally be expected in a 
defined community, geographical area or season
However, I think its likely that a court would find that there needs to be more than one 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises in order for it to be an outbreak.
In the FCA business interruption test case, the Supreme Court didnt specifically consider 
how many cases would be needed for an outbreak. But at paragraph 69 the court said:
Nor for that matter could an outbreak of disease be regarded as one occurrence, 
unless the individual cases of disease described as an outbreak have a sufficient 
degree of unity in relation to time, locality and cause.
Also, in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), the 
Judge referred to an outbreak as plural.
Ive considered that any case of Covid-19 at Ms premises would be part of the wider general 
outbreak of Covid-19. But I think its clear in Ms policy that its the occurrence of the 
outbreak itself that needs to be at Ms premises, rather than an occurrence of the disease.
Ive therefore considered whether M has shown there was more likely than not an outbreak 
of Covid-19 at its premises.
As M says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case at the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that there was an outbreak of Covid-19 
at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their 
policy covers.
M has provided medical evidence showing that Mr C was diagnosed with Covid-19 and 
admitted to hospital on 3 April 2020 and that he was not discharged until mid-June 2020. 
I am sorry to read that Mr Cs flatmate sadly passed away with Covid-19.
But I have only Mr Es testimony to say that Mr C visited his premises on 21 March 2020. He 
has not provided any additional evidence for this and his testimony alone is not enough for 
me fairly to conclude that there was a case of Covid-19 at Ms premises.
M says that we can contact Mr C for further evidence. But it is for M to provide any evidence 
it would like us to consider.
Ive considered Ms comments about the burden of proof. I currently dont consider M has 
discharged the burden of proof to show that it has suffered a loss which its policy covers.
Even if M provided us with additional evidence to show that Mr C was at Ms premises on 
21 March 2020, this is not enough for me to say that Lloyds should pay Ms claim. On Mr Es 
evidence only Mr C, while visiting the premises, had symptoms of Covid-19. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, one case is not sufficient for me to conclude that there was an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises.Ive also considered the paragraphs of the High Court decision to which M has referred. The 
relevant law here is the Supreme Courts decision. In the test case, the Supreme Court 
looked at radius disease clauses, being those that provide cover for business interruption 
as a consequence of or following or arising from the occurrence of a notifiable disease within 
a specified radius of the insured premises. Some of the policies that the Court considered 
included the at the premises wording, but those policies also included the radius wording.
Importantly, Ms policy did not include the radius disease wording. Rather, the policy 
required an outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises. And M has not shown it was more likely 
than not that there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises.
Ive read Ms comments about the definitions of notifiable disease in the exemplar policy 
wordings within the High Court (and Supreme Court) judgment. Those wordings refer to the 
notifiable disease as being one an outbreak of which the local authority has stipulated shall 
be notified to them. The wording to which M has referred is not in Ms policy where any 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease is not specifically defined. In any event, I 
do not consider the wording to which M has referred defines the number of people who must 
sustain the disease for it to constitute an outbreak.
So, I think Lloyds was correct to conclude that Ms claim was not impacted by the Supreme 
Courts decision in the test case, as M has not demonstrated that there was more likely than 
not an outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing [to] Mr E, who has clearly spent 
considerable time preparing and presenting his arguments on behalf of M. But having 
considered the matter very carefully I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Ms claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say that it did not have anything further to add. 
Mr E did not respond to my provisional decision or to a message we sent to him reminding 
him of the response date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any additional evidence to consider so I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman