DRN-1598149
The complaint
Miss J had complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. Miss J will notice that her complaint was 
originally set up against another business who were the original insurer. However, that 
insurer has now transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep things simple, Ill just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Miss J took out the PPI in 2002 at the same time as applying for the card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss J disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss J says she wasnt aware shed taken out PPI  meaning that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent. Ive seen a copy of the store card application form that was 
completed at the time of the sale. The form has a separate section for PPI. Miss J has 
signed within that section to request the policy. She could have left it blank if she hadnt 
wanted the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Js recollection of 
events has faded. Given the layout and wording of the form, I consider that Miss J would 
have known that she had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that she probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing 
so.
AXA didnt advise Miss J to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Miss J with sufficient information for her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.Miss J says she would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Miss J would have received full pay 
for. She told us she had some savings. But having the policy would have meant that she 
could have retained these or used them to cover other outgoings. Overall, I think Miss J had 
a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult 
time.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss J wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider that further 
information would have caused her to change her mind. So shes no worse off as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman