DRN-3746511
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure), over a period of around nine months, 
provided him with incorrect valuations for his pension plan (PP). He says ReAssure 
continually said it would escalate the matter to senior managers but failed to resolve the 
issue. He feels that its continuing failure to amend the calculations has caused him stress 
and anguish and reduced his ability to extend his fee earning capacity.
What happened
In 1986 Mr S took out a PP with Legal & General, the administration of which was taken over 
by ReAssure in 2019. The plan was set to age 70. Each year he received an annual 
statement which, up to the 2019 statement hadnt shown a fund value more than £100,000. 
ReAssure has told us that the total investment into the PP was below £25,000. But in 
April 2021, he received a yearly review of his PP which said that the value of the plan was 
£250,855.70 and would provide a yearly annuity of £15,058.82.  By August 2021 the fund 
value given by ReAssure to Mr S was over £500,000 and continued to increase with 
subsequent valuations. 
In October 2021 Mr S contacted ReAssure for a policy value. He was told it was 
£547,596.51. Mr S thought this was an inflated figure and asked for a breakdown of the 
value. ReAssure confirmed it thought the figure was correct but said it would provide a full 
breakdown of the transfer value to date. It further explained that Mr S would need to contact 
the previous pension provider for information about an annuity if he wanted to draw his 
benefits as it wasnt able to provide one. 
Mr S and his adviser made further contact with ReAssure about the incorrect figure during 
December 2021. In January 2022 ReAssure apologised for its errors and paid Mr S £150 for 
the inconvenience caused. But Mr S wasnt happy with the offer and in March 2022 then set 
out the full details of his complaint to ReAssure: 
He hadnt received a reply to his verbal complaint from December 2021  which was 
beyond the eight weeks in which ReAssure ought to have responded.
When he was informed by ReAssure that his PP was valued at around £250,000 in 
April 2021, he began to consider his retirement options with his adviser. Subsequent 
valuations of up to and above £500,000 over the following nine months led him to 
decide to scale back his self-employed earnings in favour of his PP income. 
In October 2021 he discussed his options around taking an annuity with the original 
pension provider. He asked his adviser to produce a formal report so that he could 
confirm hed received financial advice before accepting the annuity offer or potentially 
transferring the PP to his self-invested personal pension. 
He made the decision to transfer his PP benefits in November 2021 and his adviser 
called ReAssure to confirm the transfer value  which was stated to be £575,156.13. 
But in December 2021 the adviser was informed that there had been an error and the 
transfer value was actually around £90,000. He couldnt be sure what figure was 
correct and still hadnt received a breakdown from ReAssure to explain what caused 
the initial error.
He hadnt received an explanation for why hed received a cheque for £150. But in 
any case, he didnt think that sum was a satisfactory resolution to the matter. 
He had made life changing decisions based on what he thought were correct 
calculations. This was principally to accelerate his retirement and reduce his 
workload from April 2022. He had also suffered anxiety and stress from ReAssures 
failure to provide correct valuations as well as wasting a significant amount of time 
trying to find out the correct figures. 
 
ReAssure said it had reviewed its previous offer of compensation for the error it had made 
and believed this was the right outcome. So Mr S brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He said that, while the valuations ReAssure 
provided from the April 2021 statement onwards were implausible, it seemed incapable of 
providing corrected and credible figures to Mr S over an extended period of time. He thought 
this would have raised Mr Ss expectations around his annuity payment and caused him 
distress and inconvenience trying to resolve the matter so that he could organize his 
retirement options. He thought ReAssure should pay Mr S a total of £400. 
ReAssure said it would increase its payment for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
the £400 that the investigator recommended. 
But Mr S didnt agree He thought he should be compensated further for his time in dealing 
with the complaint and the loss of earnings during the long periods he had to spend on the 
telephone to  and waiting for  ReAssure to respond. He thought it was reasonable for him 
to take ReAssures information at face value and look into his retirement options, which were 
to annuitise or transfer his funds to a self-invested personal pension. 
He wanted his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome the investigator reached here. I know Mr S will 
be disappointed with this outcome and Ive seen the strength of his feelings that he should 
be further compensated for the trouble and upset this matter has caused here. This was 
especially with regards to the changes he said he made to his self-employment situation 
because of the incorrect information ReAssure provided.
But I think the level of compensation recommended here was correct  so Ill explain my 
reasons.
The incorrect valuations
I know the investigator was satisfied that ReAssure had made an error with the valuations it 
provided from April to December 2021. And Ive seen that Mr S understands that 
compensation/monies cannot be paid from a pension policy which does not exist. 
But for completeness Ive also considered this matter based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with. Ive seen that ReAssure (or the previous provider) issued statements and 
verbal valuations along the following lines:
A statement dated 22 May 2017 showed the transfer value of the plan was £64,556  
which would provide a yearly income of £4,403.76.A verbal valuation of £76,213 was given on 28 October 2019.
The 2018 annual statement received in May 2019 noted the plan would provide a 
yearly annuity of £8,621.31.  
The 2019 statement received in June 2020 noted a future annuity of £8,661.39.
In April 2021 a yearly review letter noted the value of the plan was £250,855.70 and 
would provide a yearly annuity of £15,058.82.
In October 2021 Mr S was given a policy value of £547,596.51.
A letter dated 2 November 2021 gave policy information which said, total annuity 
£15,058.82 at age 70, current transfer value £574,830.37. Although it also stated, 
please note that all values quoted are not guaranteed as the funds are revalued on a 
regular basis. 
By January 2022  when it issued its first retirement options pack - the transfer value was 
noted as £90,105.64 which it was stated would provide a guaranteed annual income of 
£5,999.52. The pack from April 2022 showed a rise in the transfer value to £93,110.06  with 
a guaranteed annual income of £6,242.38.
So I think its clear that there was an anomaly in April 2021 when the transfer value of the 
plan was nearly three times the value it had been in the previous annual statement, and this 
value doubled again within the next six months. But as the money was invested in a cautious 
with-profits fund, this meant it would have been more likely to have grown organically with 
the addition of bonuses which were usually only declared once a year. 
So all the evidence Ive seen would suggest that the figures provided throughout 2021 were 
incorrect and bore little or no resemblance to the actual value of the plan, which was noted 
to be between £60,000 and £90,000 for the years immediately prior to the erroneous 
valuations. I think this was simply an error from ReAssure which it has explained arose from 
the migration of systems from the original plan provider and seemed to be as a result of 
including future premiums that Mr S wasnt going to pay into his plan. I havent looked at the 
breakdown of the valuations ReAssure provided to try to validate this reason as I dont think 
its material to the complaint  but I think its a reasonable explanation of what may have 
gone wrong.
But in any case, even if that explanation isnt complete, the fact remains that Im satisfied the 
valuations from April 2021 were incorrect and it wouldnt be fair to tell ReAssure to honour 
them when providing the funds to the original provider to set up Mr Ss annuity.
But this was a significant error from ReAssure for two main reasons. Firstly it repeated the 
error on a number of occasions when questioned by Mr S and his adviser, and it 
compounded the problem by increasing the valuation figures it provided during the whole 
nine months or so the problem existed. In addition, this was an important time for Mr S who 
wanted to consider all his retirement options and needed an accurate picture of his 
retirement provision to be able to decide whether he could afford to reduce his workload and 
begin a gradual phased retirement plan. 
So Ive gone on to consider the impact of ReAssures actions and the level of compensation 
thats been recommended and offered for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
errors.
The impact of the errors and compensation award
Mr S has explained the impact ReAssures errors had on his circumstances at that time. He 
says because of the amount he thought he would receive from his pension he had begun not 
to follow up new leads in his business. He says he was repeatedly assured of the 
exaggerated sum, although he acknowledges that he had "huge scepticism for a long period of time". He says his pension adviser made numerous contacts with ReAssure because it 
wanted to formulate its retirement recommendations for Mr S as he wanted to bring forward 
his retirement plans and reduce his work as a self-employed consultant. 
Mr S has also complained about the lack of responses he received from ReAssure who, he 
said, made numerous promises that his concerns would be addressed by senior 
management. In summary he doesnt think the £400 thats been suggested by our 
investigator covers the time and effort hes made here  as well as the losses suffered from 
scaling back his workload in anticipation of a partial retirement.
I can understand Mr Ss position here and I can only imagine the frustration hes suffered  
over an extended period  from being advised by his pension administrator that he was 
entitled to an annuity of between two or three times more than was actually the case. And I 
can see that he and his adviser tried hard to get this matter resolved because they wanted to 
finalise his retirement plans. Although the evidence would suggest that Mr S remained highly 
doubtful that the 2021 figures were correct which is why he continued to question them at 
the end of 2021. However, this doesnt diminish the significance of the errors that ReAssure 
continually made during this time. 
We dont usually make a specific award for someones time, or calculate it using a set 
amount, like £10 an hour. Nor do we make specific awards for example around the loss of 
business opportunities Mr S may have suffered during this time, but we will factor in the 
inconvenience someone may have experienced spending time dealing with a matter. Ive 
also taken into account that Mr S has said that he was looking to reduce his workload from 
April 2022 by which time the error had been corrected, and I also think Mr S might have 
been better advised not to have made any of the changes hes told us about until his annuity 
had been formalised and the payments begun. I can understand what Mr S was intending to 
do, based on the inflated information and figures he received, but theres little evidence to 
support the claim that he had already made these changes  or indeed should have made 
them, and suffered business losses.
But even if my assessment of the situation isnt correct, its important that were fair to both 
sides when making awards of this kind  so while Mr S might want us to punish ReAssure, 
thats not what were here to do. Our role is to make an award that recognises the impact 
ReAssures mistake had on Mr S. 
I dont take lightly the impact this had on Mr S over an extended period of time. Im sure the 
frustration of continually being reassured that the figures were correct  when he obviously 
had doubts, would have been high. And I dont doubt that some of the initial plans his 
adviser discussed would have had to be amended when the error finally came to light. But 
having carefully considered all of this information  and the impact on Mr S, I think the award 
suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable and within the range of what Id expect 
to see for such a combination of repeated errors and the subsequent impact on Mr S.  
 
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr S a total of £400 for the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience its errors caused him. This total includes any amounts that have already been 
paid to him. My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ss complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
ReAssure should pay Mr S the amount set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman