DRN-3869767
The complaint
A company, that Ill refer to as C, has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE declined its 
business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr O, a one of the directors of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened 
C is an alarm and security system installer. C held a business interruption insurance policy 
with AXIS and claimed on its policy for business interruption after it was impacted by 
Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. C says it continued to provide a 
limited emergency service to customers but most employees were furloughed and the 
business effectively mothballed in March 2020.
AXIS reviewed the claim and asked a loss adjuster to liaise with C. They said there was a 
section of the policy that potentially might have provided cover: business interruption as a 
result of denial of access to the insured premises. However, it said the denial of access 
section required closure of or denial of access by order of a public authority and it did not 
think Cs premises had been closed or restricted in this way. AXIS said C would in fact have 
been considered to be key workers under the Government guidance. AXIS said it provides 
an optional extension to the business interruption cover for an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease but C had not taken this cover. AXIS therefore declined the claim.
C complained about the refusal of the claim and the time taken to deal with it. 
AXIS maintained that the correct decision had been reached, as C had no cover for an 
occurrence of disease, as it had not taken this optional cover. AXIS also said that the policy 
contains a general exclusion, which states: this policy shall not cover any loss or damage 
due to  epidemic and disease so there would be no cover, even if the premises were 
closed or restricted. 
AXIS accepted that C had to wait a long time for its final answer to the claim but said that 
claims were on hold pending the outcome of the FCA test case and while, it accepted that 
more and better updates should have been provided to C, it did not think this warranted any 
compensation.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think the complaint should be 
upheld, as he thought AXIS was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it did. 
C has made a number of points in support of its initial complaint and in response to the 
Investigator. I have summarised Cs main points below: 
AXIS has incorrectly interpreted the policy terms and the Supreme Courts judgment 
on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) business interruption insurance test 
case, which supports its claim. 
C says its policy is one of those listed by the FCA as capable of responding to the 
Covid-19 pandemic following the test case. 
One of the directors and an employee had Covid-19 symptoms at the end of 
March 2020, so it had to close the office to restrict possible infection spreading. 
Many of its employees were denied access to the premises preventing them from 
undertaking their duties, causing interruption to the business. Its emergency 
engineers had to work from home and its installation engineers could not work due to 
the Government instructions that essential work only be carried out. 
The Supreme Court said that cover would be available for the denial of access to all 
or part of the business premises by order of a competent public authority, which is 
what happened to C. 
It thinks it had notifiable disease cover with effect from the September 2019 renewal 
of the policy. The policy schedule states clearly what is not insured and does not 
state there is no cover for disease, so it is only fair to have inferred that there was no 
restriction under section 2 of the policy and that full coverage applies including the 
disease extension. Any ambiguity in the policy should be read in its favour. 
As no agreement has been reached, Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the Covid-19 pandemic had a considerable financial impact on C. With that in 
mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether AXIS should have 
met Cs claim. 
The burden of proof initially rests with C to demonstrate, on balance, it has suffered a loss its 
policy covers. While Ive considered Cs policy in its entirety, Ive focused my decision on the 
parts that appear most relevant. 
Premises Closure or Restrictions 
This extension (in the automatic extensions applicable to Sections 2a, 2b and 2c, part of the 
policy) says: 
The insurance under Section 2 is extended to include loss which results directly from 
the interruption or interference with Your Business at the Premises in consequence 
of the closing of or denial of access to the whole or part of the Premises by order of a 
competent Public Authority. 
The premises is defined in the policy as being: The location(s) as stated in the Schedule 
used by You for the purposes of The Business.
The address of the insured premises is what appears to be an office in an industrial unit. 
There does not appear to be a shop or showroom for walk-in customers. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out which 
businesses were required to close. Security systems businesses such as C were not on that 
list of business specifically directed to close by the Government in March 2020. 
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open - for example, the restrictions on movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the 
reasonable excuses included being able to travel to work where it was not reasonably 
practical for that person to work from where they are living.  
I dont think that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority.  I 
think C could have used its premises if it wasnt reasonably practical for its staff to work from 
home and so I dont think there was a restriction that meant it was unable to access its 
premises, in whole or in part. 
I do appreciate that some customers would not have wanted C to attend their premises to 
install alarms but to be covered the policy requires the denial of access to be at Cs premises 
and not any customers premises. And, whilst social distancing guidelines may have made 
certain parts of its operation more difficult, the policy requires there to be a closure or 
restrictions on the insured premises and Cs policy does not provide cover for, what is 
effectively, a downturn in business or loss of market.
So, I am satisfied AXISs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all 
the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Disease extension
C could have taken an additional extension to the policy which would have covered the 
occurrence of disease at the premises. C didnt take this additional optional cover.
C suggests that because it was not specifically excluded on the policy schedule, this means 
the cover is ambiguous and this extension should be included in its cover. I do not agree. 
The policy documents set out sufficiently clearly in my view the cover provided to C. The 
policy lists the possible extensions to business interruption cover and states clearly that they 
are Operative only if stated in the Schedule.
The schedule does not state that there is cover for infectious disease. 
I would not expect an insurer to list every exclusion to cover in the policy schedule, as there 
is nothing to indicate that there would be infectious disease cover in any event. So I do not 
agree it is reasonable to treat this as included in the cover because the policy schedule did 
not specifically state that there was no cover for notifiable diseases. 
Test case
C has also said that its policy with AXIS was one of the ones considered by the Supreme 
Court and capable of providing cover. It is capable of providing cover but whether it does or 
not in relation to any particular policyholder depends on the individual circumstances and the 
exact policy wording. For the reasons given above, I do not think it provides cover for Cs 
claim. 
Service 
I can see that there were significant delays in AXISs communications with C. Most notably 
in response to the claim made in April 2020.  I appreciate this would have caused frustration 
to the directors dealing with the claim. However, I can only consider and make an award that 
recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a limited company, rather than any individual. A 
limited company cannot suffer distress or frustration. 
I can understand that any delay in the claim would have caused concern but, as mentioned I 
cannot make an award of compensation for distress or frustration suffered by a business. I 
can make an award for inconvenience to the business but I am not persuaded that the 
business was caused inconvenience by the delay in AXIS confirming its position that the 
claim was not covered, such as would warrant an award of compensation. 
Im mindful of the consequences my decision may have on C. But I havent found AXIS 
acted unfairly in declining its claim. Im therefore not directing AXIS to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman