DRN-2791493
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans (Bamboo Loans) is 
holding her liable for a loan she says was taken out fraudulently in her name.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms S was contacted by a scammer who led her to believe they were 
going to employ her as a mystery shopper. As part of the scam they took all of her personal 
and bank account details. 
While the scam was going on Ms S said around £10,000 was deposited into her account 
from several different lenders, including a £2,000 loan from Bamboo Loans. shes said the 
scammers threatened her and coerced her into withdrawing the cash in her local banks 
branch and handing it over.
Around a week after the withdrawals Ms S contacted Bamboo to let it know the loan had 
been taken out without her consent. She asked that it write off the debt and close the 
account. Bamboo didnt do this. It accepted shed been the victim of a scam but asked her 
for a letter from her bank confirming shed been the victim of impersonation before it would 
be able to remove the debt. It offered to freeze any interest accrued while she got this as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Ms S brought the complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. They felt that on 
balance it was more likely than not Ms S had been the victim of impersonation and hadnt 
benefitted from the loan so shouldnt be held liable for it.
Bamboo Loans didnt accept the investigators findings. In its response it said that:
Whilst it had sympathy for Ms Ss situation, she had willingly given her details to a 
scammer. 
Bamboo Loans wasnt liable for the scam that had taken place so it didnt feel it 
should be liable for the cost of this.
It felt Ms S had refused to provide a letter from her bank confirming shed been the 
victim of a scam and hadnt benefitted from the loan which it felt suggested she was 
culpable.
The police hadnt been able to find in her favour which it felt suggested she was 
culpable.
There was no proof other than Ms Ss word that she didnt benefit from the scam so 
our service couldnt say with 100% confidence she hadnt.
Ms S hadnt contacted Bamboo Loans until several days after the incident took place 
and the loan was applied for from a London IP address which is Ms Ss city of 
residence.
It also said she had authorised the loan and therefore should be liable for it.
As Bamboo Loans didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Did Ms S authorise the loan?
Ms S has provided a witness statement she made to the police following the period she was 
the victim of a scam. And this report provides a lot of detail that explains how she was 
tricked and then coerced into taking out a number of mobile phone contracts, and then 
withdrawing large amounts of cash from her bank account and handing it over to a stranger.  
It also provides details of when, why and how she disclosed to the scammers all the 
personal details they wouldve needed to take out loans in her name. Shes explained she 
wasnt told the loans were going to be taken out and was only aware of this once the money 
was in her account at which point she was instructed to withdraw it and hand it over to the 
scammers. Ms Ss bank has also provided us with details of its fraud notes, which show Ms 
S told it the same when she reported what had happened to her.
I think Ms S has provided plausible and consistent testimony that she wasnt aware the loans 
were being taken out in her name. And, having reviewed Bamboo Loans application 
process, it seems the scammer wouldve had all the information they needed in order to take 
out a loan in Ms Ss name. Ms S has explained she provided this information to the scammer 
as she understood she was applying for a job with them. 
Bamboo Loans doesnt seem to have carried out any checks to verify that the person making 
the application was the person named on the application. So overall, I think Ms S has 
provided a plausible, persuasive explanation as to how someone wouldve taken out the loan 
in her name and Bamboos application process wouldve allowed this to happen. 
I think its more likely than not she didnt authorise the loan. As a starting point, I think this 
means Ms S shouldnt be liable for repaying it.
Did Ms S benefit from the loan?
Whilst Im satisfied Ms S didnt authorise the loan application, I still need to consider whether 
she likely benefitted from it in any way. In this case, Bamboo Loans feels Ms S is unable to 
prove that she didnt benefit from the loan that was taken out in her name. Because it 
doesnt know for certain she didnt benefit from it, it feels she should be liable for its 
repayment.  But I dont think its reasonable to expect Ms S to prove a negative. And my 
decision is not based on what is certain, but what we think is more likely, on balance, and 
based on the available evidence. 
In this case, I dont feel Ive seen any evidence to suggest Ms S was working with the 
scammers. Everything she has told the police, her bank, Bamboo Loans and our service has 
been consistent and plausible and indicates shes been the victim of a sophisticated scam 
during which she was coerced and threatened.
I dont agree with Bamboos point that the fact the scammers havent been prosecuted 
suggests the police think Ms S was involved with the scam. There are many reasons 
individuals may not be prosecuted in this scenario and as far as I know, Bamboo Loans has 
no details of whats happened in this particular case. I dont feel Ive seen any evidence that 
suggests the police are concerned Ms S was involved or is culpable as Bamboo Loans have 
said and from what I understand, Bamboo loans hasnt seen any evidence of this either.Ms Ss bank has confirmed to our service directly that its unable to confirm Ms S wasnt 
involved in the scam and Bamboo Loans seems to feel this proves she was, but again, I 
dont agree. When Bamboo Loans has asked for evidence from her bank, I believe it 
wouldve been asking for information about where the money went after it reached her 
account as this can sometimes give an indication of someones level of involvement if it was 
transferred to another account. But Ms S withdrew the money in cash, as shes explained 
from the outset and as confirmed by her bank. So theres no way her bank can know, and 
therefore comment on, what happened to it afterwards.
Her bank has explained this to our service and I dont think this suggests she has benefitted 
from the funds. I think it suggests that once the funds left the account in cash and were 
physically taken from the bank, the bank is unable to confirm where they went which is 
understandable.
Ive considered Bamboo Loans additional points, but I havent found them persuasive. I 
dont think less than a week to report the situation to Bamboo was unreasonable given the 
number of businesses Ms S had to contact as well as reporting the matter to the police. I 
also dont think its significant that the IP address the application was made from is in Ms Ss 
city of residence given how many people live in the city. And in any event, it is possible to 
disguise an IP address so it appears to be in a different area.
Ive noted the other complaints with our service Bamboo Loans has raised but each 
complaint is considered on its individual merit. So I havent taken other, unrelated complaints 
into account when reaching a conclusion in this case. Overall, in this case, I dont think there 
is any persuasive evidence that indicates Ms S has benefitted from the loan Im satisfied she 
didnt authorise.
Putting things right
As I dont think Ms S authorised or benefitted from the loan I dont think she should fairly be 
held liable for its repayment. Bamboo Loans should also remove any information relating to 
the loan from her credit file.
I think Bamboo Loans reasonably ought to have known, and accepted, Ms S wasnt liable for 
the loan much sooner than it did. I think the fact it didnt mustve added to the emotional 
distress Ms S has been feeling throughout this period and as a result of what happened to 
her. I think its fair and reasonable it pay her £100 in compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans 
should:
Stop pursuing Ms S for repayment of the loan;
Remove any information from her credit record relating to this loan;
Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman