DRN-2964243
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited when 
he tried to cancel his term assurance policy. 
What happened
In 2001 Mr H took out his term assurance policy. And in January 2021 he decided he no 
longer wanted the policy. So, he called Aviva to cancel it. When he spoke to Aviva it couldnt 
locate the policy and he had to spend over an hour on the phone. Mr H was then told he had 
to write a letter in order to cancel the policy.
Mr H was unhappy with the service he received. So, he made a complaint. Aviva reviewed 
the complaint and offered Mr H £50. It also told him he could take a picture of his signed 
cancellation letter and e-mail it to Aviva. Mr H remained unhappy with this offer. So, he 
brought his complaint to this service. He said he should be paid £240 for the trouble and 
upset he experienced  which is full years-worth of premiums for his former policy. Mr H was 
concerned his family wouldve had the same experience as him if they had ever needed to 
make a claim on the policy. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied it 
was Avivas policy to ask for the policy to be cancelled in writing and that the £50 Aviva had 
offered for the service Mr H had received on the phone was fair. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he was worried that his 
family may have had to suffer the same experience if they had to make a claim on his policy 
whilst it was still active. And that he didnt think he was treated fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Aviva has admitted it made mistakes when dealing with this issue. And there is no dispute 
from either party that Mr H suffered inconvenience here. Mr H is understandably frustrated 
with what happened. But Im afraid I dont agree that he should be paid £240.
When a business has done something wrong, we expect it to act fairly and reasonably when 
trying to put things right. We dont award trouble and upset payments by considering what 
might have happened. So, Ive looked at everything Aviva has done to try and resolve the 
complaint. And Ive considered whether its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and in line with awards this service would make in similar cases. 
Having done so, Im satisfied it is. I understand the points Mr H has raised and the time he 
spent trying to resolve the issue. But Im satisfied with the explanation Aviva has given that it 
only accepts a written cancellation letter for Mr Hs policy. Aviva said that, due to the service 
Mr H received, it was willing to make an exception and receive a picture of the signed 
cancellation letter via e-mail. And once this was received it was acted upon within a 
reasonable timeframe.  
Aviva has offered £50 for the trouble and upset its caused. I believe thats fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman