DRN-4346893
The complaint
Mr B and Miss F complain about how Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson 
Insurance (Astrenska) dealt with a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B took out travel insurance in June 2022 prior to a family holiday. He says he needed to 
make a claim when, on 12 June 2022, a bag containing personal items fell overboard on a 
boat they were taking a trip on. 
After the incident Mr B says he consulted his policy documents to see what was required to 
make a claim on his policy. He asked the boat crew for some acknowledgment of the 
incident  but they refused as their insurance was for injuries only. Mr B reported the matter 
to the police but they were unable to provide a report as there had been no crime. So, Mr B 
says neither the boat company or the police would provide him with a report for the incident. 
When he arrived back at home Mr B contacted Astrenska to enquire how to make a claim. 
He was told he needed to provide a police report or a property irregularity report, but that 
wasnt applicable to Mr Bs situation. He says he wasnt told he needed a report from the 
travel company who he took the boat trip with. 
Mr B submitted his claim online. He received an email in October 2022 advising the claim 
had been declined since he hadnt met one of the requirements; that being he failed to 
provide a report of the circumstances.
Mr B wasnt happy. He was unable to obtain a police report as no crime had been committed 
and he was unable to provide a property irregularity report since there was no airline or lost 
baggage involved. 
Mr B contacted Astrenska in the following days and was told someone from the claims team 
would call him back  but they didnt. He called again in November 2022 and made a 
complaint about the lack of call backs he received. Mr B says he also called prior to 
Christmas and again early in the new year  and both times he was told someone was 
looking into his complaint.
The claim was declined due to lack of supporting evidence which Mr B tried to obtain. He 
says he wasnt told in June when discussing the claim with Astrenska that he required the 
evidence. Mr B says he couldnt have done any more to provide the evidence and at every 
step he has actively sought direction from Astrenska on what his obligations were.
Mr B complained to Astrenska. He says hes been financially impacted through the loss of 
goods which werent reimbursed by his insurance provider. He says he acted in good faith 
and tried to speak to Astrenska at various stages of the claim. Had he been told sooner of 
the need for evidence from the boat company he could have tried to contact them over the 
summer months but by the time he was told it was too late. Mr B wants Astrenska to 
acknowledge its failures in dealing with the claim. 
Astrenska accepted there were delays while the claim was being reviewed, and that Mr B 
didnt receive a call back from the assessor on two occasions. Astrenska referred to the 
personal belongings exclusion in the policy and said since Mr B was unable to provide a 
report from the boat company, or any independent travel provider then it is obliged to decline 
any claim. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for him. He said he thought the insurer acted within the terms of the policy 
in declining the claim. He agreed there were delays in the handling of the claim and 
suggested an award of 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Bs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Astrenska treated 
him fairly. 
Lost personal possessions
My starting point is the terms of the policy.  In section 4 of the policy Claims evidence under 
Personal Baggage and Baggage Delay, Personal Money and Travel Documents it lists 
examples of the type of evidence required to validate claims, as follows; 
- Police report or written report from travel provider detailing your reported loss,
- Police report for any lost/stolen item(s),
- Property irregularity report from an airline,
- written confirmation from the airline or travel company stating the length of delay, 
- proof of ownership and value of items claimed for such as receipts, 
- claims for loss or theft of mobile phones we will ask for proof the service provider 
has been contacted and asked to discontinue the service,
- evidence of withdrawal of bank notes or currency.
Its a general principle of insurance that it is for the policyholder to provide enough evidence 
to show theyve suffered a financial loss as a result of an event which is covered by the 
terms of their insurance contract. So Astrenska is reasonably entitled to be satisfied, on 
balance, that Mr B both lost the items he claims for and in the way he said. 
Theres no dispute Mr B attempted to obtain a police report or something from the boat 
company. But he was unable to do so. Mr Bs own evidence suggests he consulted his 
policy documents after the incident to see what his insurer required to make a claim. So he 
was aware that he needed evidence detailing the loss in order to claim on his policy. 
Mr B says the policy wording isnt clear due to the use of the word may so there was a 
chance he wouldnt need to provide any evidence. But I dont agree. The policy details the 
type of evidence required in order to validate any claims. So even with the use of may it 
indicates it was possible (and likely) he would have been asked to evidence his claim. And it 
means that by asking Mr B for that evidence Astrenska is acting within the terms of the 
policy.
As it stands then, theres no independent documentation which shows Mr B suffered the loss 
of his bag. To be clear I dont doubt Mr Bs testimony about what happened. But in the absence of this I dont think Mr B has provided enough evidence to show this part of the 
claim is covered by the policy. And so it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Astrenska to 
turn down the claim. 
Its clear that Mr B feels strongly that he tried to report the matter to the police and the boat 
company, and so its unreasonable for Astrenska to decline to cover his personal 
possessions claim. I accept he had little control over how the police and travel company 
dealt with the incident. But it remains the case that Astrenska is reasonably entitled to be 
satisfied that Mr B lost the items hes claimed for. It currently has no contemporaneous, 
documentary, official evidence from the time of the incident. So theres no independent 
official documentation to demonstrate that, on balance, Mr Bs possessions were lost in the 
way he says. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Astrenska to conclude that Mr 
B hadnt met the policy terms or shown his loss fell within the scope of cover. And so Im 
persuaded that it was fair for Astrenska to turn down Mr Bs claim. 
I know my finding will come as a disappointment to Mr B who has clearly been through a 
frustrating time. But in order for me to compel Astrenska to pay the claim I need to be able to 
say it did something wrong or unreasonable, and I cant say that here on the evidence.
Claim delays
Mr B submitted his claim in June 2022 and it was declined four months later. Astrenska 
accepted there was a delay in assessing Mr Bs claim due to the volume of claims it was 
dealing with at the time. Nonetheless an insurer has a duty to deal with claims promptly and 
fairly.
Since Astrenska accept there were delays in handling Mr Bs claim its not my intention to 
discuss this point further. Instead Ive carefully considered what level of compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested Astrenska pay Mr B £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter. Having considered everything, I think this is 
reasonable and in line with this services approach. So, I intend to direct Astrenska to pay Mr 
B £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and 
direct Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurance to pay Mr B £100.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman