DRN-4024209
The complaint
Miss B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled an international payment 
she wanted to make.
What happened
In August 2022, Miss B provided instructions for a transfer to a bank in another country. But 
the payment wasnt successful and Miss B wasnt sure what had happened to the money 
she had sent. She contacted HSBC about this but it couldnt tell Miss B what had happened 
to the money either.
Eventually, HSBC found out that an intermediary bank, working for the bank that Miss B 
wished to send the money to, had rejected the payment. This prevented the transfer but 
hadnt returned the money to it. HSBC says that it chased the intermediary for both an 
explanation and a refund. It says that it never received either.
At this point, Miss B complained to HSBC - saying that she felt it was responsible for what 
happened with the transfer and that it should have provided her with an explanation for why 
it was rejected. HSBC responded only to restate what it had done to try and recover the 
payment and to say that it still hadnt received the funds back.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service. After we became involved, HSBC did receive 
the payment back from the bank that held it in February 2023. It then refunded the money to 
Miss B, albeit slightly less than the amount originally transferred, due to changes in the 
exchange rate. Miss B said she was unhappy with its efforts to recover the payment and with 
the service it provided around this. She says that she was passed around between staff and 
that she was not treated fairly. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought HSBC fell short in respect of some of 
the service it provided. They eventually recommended that HSBC should pay Miss B £250 in 
relation to the distress and inconvenience caused. HSBC accepted this but didnt agree that 
it is responsible for what happened with the transfer. It maintained that it cant be held 
responsible for the actions of the intermediary bank that rejected the payment, where that 
was outside of its control. Nor could it have provided an explanation of what happened when 
it didnt know that.
Our investigator thought that the transfer itself had been carried out properly, and then 
chased properly once it was rejected. They thought that the offer of £250 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the issues with the service provided was reasonable.
Miss B did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the payment itself here - intermediary banks are often part of any process to 
transfer funds internationally. Miss B may not have appreciated this, but this is part of the 
process HSBC uses to make payments in the way Miss B wanted. From the evidence Ive 
seen, HSBC made the payment correctly and in line with its usual process for doing so.
The path of the payment means that it went from HSBC to its own intermediary bank. But 
then the money went from HSBCs intermediary bank to the receiving banks intermediary. 
That intermediary was acting on behalf of the receiving bank rather than HSBC, so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold HSBC liable for any actions it may have taken. 
Crucially  the evidence shows that it was this bank that rejected the payment. The reasons 
arent clear, but it looks like a decision the receiving banks intermediary made independently 
of HSBC. Ive seen nothing in how HSBC handled the payment that persuades me that this 
rejection was because of anything it did.
I have considered the available information and I cant see that the intermediary bank ever 
provided HSBC with an explanation as to what happened here. That means that I think 
HSBC is reasonable to say that it couldnt explain what had happened, where it didnt know. 
I dont think itd be fair to expect HSBC to give Miss B information which it did not have.
I accept that Miss B has carried out other transfers to this foreign account before and that 
these have been carried out without an issue. But in the circumstances of this individual 
complaint, Im persuaded that the issues with the payment werent HSBCs fault. I think it 
acted correctly and fairly in how it made the payment.
I also think HSBC acted fairly in trying to help Miss B recover the payment. It took a long 
time, but HSBC has shown us that it was taking the appropriate steps to help her. Ultimately 
though  it could only do so much, as it couldnt control when the payment was returned to it, 
as this was being held by another business. Once it was returned, it was paid to Miss B in a 
timely way. The change in value was down to the exchange rate. I am satisfied that this was 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
I am satisfied, then, that HSBC acted appropriately and in line with Miss Bs instructions in 
relation to the transfer. But its communication with her about the problems with that transfer 
could have been much better. It passed her from person to person and was unable to give 
clear answers about the information that it did have. I have considered carefully what Miss B 
says about the impact that this had upon her, which Im satisfied was serious. In all of the 
circumstances, I think that the £250 which HSBC has agreed to pay fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience which its shortcomings in service caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms B £250 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman