DRN-3329186
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his account. 
What happened
Mr B has a current account with Nationwide. In May 2021 Nationwide returned post that had 
been sent to Mr Bs address. As a result, a block was placed on Mr Bs account. 
On 28 May 2021 Mr B tried to access his account online and via a cash machine but was 
unable to do so. Mr B then called Nationwide and was told his account had been blocked. 
But the call handler wasnt able to remove the block which remained in place until the 
following morning. 
Mr B complained and Nationwide offered him £50 to apologise. Nationwide said it was right 
to block the account but apologised that it hadnt contacted Mr B to complete the verification 
process. Nationwide also apologised for the service provided when Mr B called. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They thought Nationwide had dealt 
with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action or increase the 
compensation. Mr B asked to appeal and said he disputed the reason his account had been 
blocked as he hadnt moved in many years. Mr B also said that he didnt agree the 
compensation offered was fair. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline in this case. I think its fair to say there are two main areas of 
focus, whether Nationwide reasonably placed a block on Mr Bs account and the service 
provided after he got in touch. 
In response to the investigator Mr B said he wasnt persuaded that returned post had caused 
the account block to be put in place. I understand Mr B has lived at the same address for 
several years and agree that it would be unusual for post to be returned in those 
circumstances. But, I think that argument somewhat serves to show why Nationwide took 
reasonably serious action and blocked Mr Bs account. Given Nationwides understanding 
that Mr B had lived at the same address for several years the returned post was unusual and 
Im satisfied these were grounds for further review. 
I think its fair to note that Nationwides terms allow it to restrict an account in order to protect 
a customer from fraud. Whilst I understand the account restriction was inconvenient, I 
havent been persuaded that Nationwide acted unfairly when it blocked Mr Bs account.
Ive listened to Mr Ms calls with Nationwide and I agree the service provided was poor. Mr B 
was transferred without being informed and systems issues delayed Nationwides ability to 
remove the block. I understand Mr B had to borrow funds on the day his account was 
blocked and that this caused embarrassment. Ive taken these factors into account when 
deciding how to resolve Mr Bs case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but whilst I accept Nationwide made errors and the service 
provided was poor at times, its offer of £50 is very much in line with what I wouldve told it to 
pay had no offer been made. In my view, £50 fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As Im satisfied 
Nationwide has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman