DRN-3104124
The complaint
Mr H and Mr S complain about the way that Society of Lloyd's dealt with their home 
insurance claim for subsidence damage to their flat. For convenience Ill refer to the insurer 
as Lloyds throughout.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr H and Mr S reported cracking of their property to Lloyds. It appointed 
a loss adjuster who arranged to carry out investigations. A report on the walls and 
foundations was issued in November 2016. Exploratory works including soil analysis took 
place, but not until March 2017. A large sycamore tree belonging to a neighbour needed to 
be felled or drastically reduced.
In May 2017 the loss adjusters wrote to the neighbour about the tree. The neighbour didnt 
respond though its unclear whether they were chased up. In August 2017 the loss adjusters 
suggested that solicitors be appointed to contact the neighbour. This wasnt done until 
December 2017. Monitoring commenced at that time as well. The neighbour agreed to 
remove the tree, and this took place in March 2018. 
Monitoring continued through 2018, and Mr H and Mr S pointed out that the cracks were 
getting worse. The structural engineer advised possible further reduction of vegetation. An 
arboriculturist was appointed. In June 2019 he advised removal of more trees, this was done 
in September 2019 after liaison with the freeholder who also owned one of the flats. It was 
explained that further monitoring was needed. It was suggested that this continue until the 
following Spring. In the meantime, in August 2019 Mr H and Mr S moved out of the property 
as they felt unable to live there because of the widening cracks, which they believed made 
the property unsafe.
Following a visit in January 2020 a scope of works was drawn up, and in February Mr H and 
Mr S were advised that the property was now stable. A repair scheme was agreed in March 
2020, but then the Covid lockdown intervened, and repairs were unable to commence until 
July 2020. The main works were completed in November 2020, with some additional work 
completed by January 2021.
Mr H and Mr S didnt return to the property. They sold it in January 2021. 
Mr H and Mr S complained to Lloyds about the substantial delays in dealing with the claim 
and in completing the repairs. They said that his had caused them to lose substantial sums 
in having to fund interest payments on their mortgage. They said that the fixed interest rate 
on their mortgage expired in 2017 and they were unable to remortgage, so had to pay at 
their mortgage providers variable rate. They said this meant they had costs of over £29,000 
caused by Lloyds delay. In respect of moving out they said they had to do this as it was 
unsafe to live there. They claimed the cost of alternative accommodation (AA).
Lloyds didnt agree that the property was uninhabitable, so declined to pay any rent. With 
regard to the mortgage payments it said that Mr H and Mr Ss financial circumstances were 
outside the terms of the policy. With regard to the delays it agreed that there had been 
substantial delays and that there had been a lack of communication. It proposed to pay Mr H 
and Mr S £1,000 compensation.
On referral to this service, and after reviewing the parties responses to an initial view, our 
investigator said that Lloyds should pay compensation of £2,000. He didnt think however 
that it should pay their rent for living elsewhere or their mortgage interest payments.
Lloyds didnt agree with the proposed increase in the compensation award. Mr H and Mr S 
said it didnt reflect their financial loss and distress they had suffered.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays
Firstly after the first report in November 2016, it took until March 2017 for exploratory works 
to take place. After these disclosed that a tree needed removing, the neighbour wasnt 
contacted until two months later. It would appear that the neighbour didnt receive that 
communication, but Ive seen no evidence that they were chased up. Instead the loss 
adjusters advised appointing solicitors to deal. Yet this wasnt done until some four months 
later. It appears that the neighbour responded fairly quickly once the solicitors contacted 
them.
Monitoring didnt start until December 2017, over a year after the start of the claim. To an 
extent I can understand this  if it was felt that the sycamore tree was causing the 
subsidence there wouldnt have been much point in monitoring until after it was removed. 
Delays were then caused because the cracks appeared to be getting larger. I cant say that 
Lloyds was at fault here  the expert report said the large sycamore tree was at fault and the 
purpose of monitoring was to ensure that once it was removed, the property stabilised. But if 
it didnt then further investigations would have to take place, as they did here.
I think there were delays in this further process  the structural engineer suggested the 
appointment of an arboriculturist in October 2018 but this wasnt done until May 2019. 
Removal and/or reduction of further trees had to take place, and this was followed by a 
period of further monitoring, which took the matter up to Spring 2020. I note that a scope of 
works was available in January 2020, but the repairs couldnt be booked in until the 
monitoring results were available. This took the matter up to March 2020, but unfortunately 
the Covid lockdown intervened. Whilst Mr H and Mr S believe the work could still have gone 
ahead, I dont think I can criticise Lloyds for the delay until the work could start. The 
lockdown was a wholly unprecedented situation and all businesses had to adjust their 
workplans.
So I think there were long and serious delays in Lloyds and its agents dealing with this 
matter, as Ive identified above. Coupled with that, the evidence is that Mr H and Mr S had to 
do a substantial amount of chasing, and some of their communications werent responded 
to. I can understand that this was difficult and frustrating for them.
mortgage repayments
Mr H and Mr S say that because of the delays their mortgage repayments increased, their 
fixed rate having expired. They estimate this led to losses of over £29,000. They say they couldnt get the property remortgaged. They havent shown us evidence that this was 
actually refused but Im satisfied they had an appointment with a mortgage adviser in late 
2017. I can understand that with the property being in a state of disrepair until the 
subsidence claim was concluded, it might have been difficult to get the property 
remortgaged.
I should explain that, whether or not this sort of loss is covered under the terms of the policy, 
we will consider a direct financial loss where caused by the insurers conduct of the claim. 
The loss would have to be something that should have been anticipated. Here Mr H and 
Mr S didnt tell Lloyds about their mortgage overpayments until July 2020.
But here I think there was just a speculative loss. Its clear that Mr H and Mr S were keen to 
sell the property, so much so that they considered putting the property up for auction in May 
2019. They also completed the sale of the property in January 2021, almost immediately 
after the repairs had been completed. Theres no guarantee that even if the property had 
been able to be repaired earlier, Mr H and Mrs S would have been able to have the benefit 
of a fixed rate remortgage.
Subsidence claims take a long time to be completed. Whilst its clear that Lloyds did add to 
the delays, I think a fair amount of those delays were unavoidable, including the two 
monitoring periods and those caused by the Covid lockdown. Again, with the existence of 
the claim affecting the ability to remortgage, there was no guarantee that Mr H and Mr S 
wouldve been able at any time to take advantage of a fixed rate remortgage.
So for those reasons I think the loss here is too speculative for me to make any award.
AA
Mr H and Mr S say they were forced to move out of the property, as it was in such a state of 
disrepair. They decided to move out in Summer 2019. They didnt tell the loss adjusters. 
The policy says:
If as a result of Damage caused by a Defined Peril, the residential portions of the Buildings 
owned by the Insured become uninhabitable or inaccessible, the Insurer will pay:
A. the reasonable costs of comparable alternative accommodation
Lloyds says that the property wasnt uninhabitable. We say that uninhabitable means a 
lack of access to washing and/or cooking facilities. Mr H and Mr S argue that those facilities 
whilst being available were inaccessible because of the cracking which made the property 
unsafe and dangerous. They have shown us photos of large cracks in the walls, in part right 
through to the outside. And theyve rightly pointed out that we say in our guidance that this 
could include where the propertys not suitable to live in from a health and safety 
perspective.
Ive no doubt that the flat was uncomfortable to live in. but Im not persuaded that there were 
health and safety issues which could reasonably have prevented Mr H and Mr S from 
continuing to live there. I take into account that the loss adjuster was entirely unaware that 
they had moved out so there was no possibility of doing some temporary filling of cracks. Ive 
also considered the fact that none of the experts said the property had any health and safety 
issues which made it uninhabitable. Lastly I understand that after Mr S and Mr H moved out, 
Mr Hs brother and a friend stayed at the property for a few months, seemingly without any 
problem.
I havent seen any indication that it wasnt possible to live in the property whilst the subsidence repairs were carried out. So whilst it was undoubtedly uncomfortable for them to 
live there with cracks getting worse, I dont think the property was at any stage 
uninhabitable, so I wont require Lloyds to pay any of Mr Ss and Mr Hs living expenses 
whilst out of the property.
compensation
Ive taken account of the very substantial delays, and the poor communication. Whilst I 
havent awarded compensation for the mortgage payments or for the alternative 
accommodation, I have taken into account that these issues caused Mr H and Mr S some 
distress, especially given that they were anxious to sell the property immediately after the 
repairs were completed.
We say that an award in this range is appropriate where the businesss mistakes cause 
sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to daily life 
typically lasting more than a year. I think the award of £2,000 is appropriate in this case, this 
includes the £1,000 previously offered. Im not clear whether this has been paid, but if so 
Lloyds will only need to pay the balance. 
Putting things right
Lloyds is to pay to Mr S and Mr H total compensation of £2,000. If it has already paid part of 
this amount it need only pay the balance.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society of Lloyds to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman