DRN-3623882
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account unfairly.
What happened
Mr Ls account was blocked on 9 September 2021 after a client from his business raised a 
scam complaint against him. The client was due a refund and when she did not receive this, 
she raised a scam complaint with her bank, who contacted Lloyds. In response, Lloyds 
blocked access to the funds in Mr Ls account while it investigated.
On 16 September 2021, Mr L spoke with the fraud team who confirmed why his account had 
been blocked. Mr L explained that he had already arranged for a refund to be sent to the 
client via a third-party account as his was inaccessible. The fraud team asked him to provide 
evidence of the refund so they could respond to the clients bank. 
On 21 September, prior to Mr L giving evidence that the refund had already been provided, 
the complaint was withdrawn by the client. As a result, Lloyds unblocked Mr Ls account and 
no further action was taken.
Mr L raised a complaint with Lloyds. He explained that he felt the client had purposefully 
raised an incorrect scam complaint against him after he had already explained the refund 
was being processed. He felt that Lloyds should not have applied a block to his account 
without first having evidence that he had done something wrong. Because Lloyds had placed 
a block on the account without speaking to him first, this meant he had no access to the 
funds in his account and he had to borrow money from friends and family. 
Lloyds issued a final response explaining it had followed the correct process and it did not 
uphold the complaint. Mr L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and felt that Lloyds had followed the right process in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and it hadnt made an error in the circumstances. 
Mr L disagreed with this. He felt that the terms and conditions of the account were 
unnegotiated and therefore unfair. He felt that Lloyds should have insisted on seeing 
evidence of the fraud claim from the client and not just accepted it on face value. And said 
this had an effect on him at a difficult time in his life due to personal circumstances.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Lloyds added the blocks as I would have expected it to, and I dont 
think its made an error in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
On 9 September 2021, Lloyds was notified by a third-party bank that Mr L had received a 
payment from one of their customers which they suspected was related to a scam. Lloyds 
did an initial review of Mr Ls account and felt it needed further information from Mr L. Based 
on the information that was available to it at the time, I think this was reasonable. The client 
had said there was a lack of communication following the payment of £600 and Lloyds had 
nothing to the contrary to suggest this was incorrect. 
The notes on file suggest that Lloyds sent Mr L a text asking him to contact it; it also blocked 
his account at that point, to ensure the £600 was not spent if the evidence suggested it was 
related to a scam. I appreciate that Mr L feels Lloyds should have sought evidence from him 
about the payment first before applying a block to the account. But I think Lloyds has acted 
correctly in placing the block first. Had the payment genuinely been related to a scam, this 
ensures the recipient has less chance to transfer the funds out of the account or spend it. It 
is unfortunate that in this instance the payment was genuine, and Mr L did return it to the 
recipient just a few days later. But ultimately, I think Lloyds acted appropriately and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account state that if we become aware that a payment into 
your account was made by mistake or fraud within two months of receiving it, we willmake 
sure the amount of the payment is not available to you to use. I think it is also reasonable for 
Lloyds to limit access to a suspected fraudulent payment while conducting their 
investigation. In Mr Ls case, the remaining funds in his account was made up entirely of the 
£600 payment on 9 September, meaning he had no access to any of the funds in the 
account.
I note Mr L has said he feels the terms and conditions of the account are unfair because he 
could not negotiate to amend the terms when he signed up to the account. While this is 
correct, Mr L had the option to reject the terms and conditions and bank elsewhere if this 
was important to him.  And looking at the terms relating to Lloyds process around suspected 
fraud and scam payments, I dont think these are unfair or create an imbalance in either 
parties rights or obligations. So, I dont think this amounts to an error on Lloyds part. 
Mr L is unhappy that he was asked to visit a branch to discuss the block and provide 
evidence to show the payment was not related to a scam. Mr L says that he was not 
specifically told what evidence to bring and this meant he had to walk home without the 
account being unblocked. This must have been frustrating for Mr L, and its difficult for me to 
know exactly what was said at the time. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask Mr L to 
provide evidence that the transaction was genuine and that the funds had been returned to 
the client. Its unfortunate that there appears to have been a miscommunication about what 
exactly was needed, but I dont think this necessarily means Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.
Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to limit access to the alleged fraudulent 
payment while conducting an investigation into the legitimacy of it. I think it acted promptly in 
trying to contact Mr L, but I note there was some confusion as to why access to his funds 
was limited. This is because Mr L had lent his brother his debit card and assumed the 
incorrect PIN had been used, causing his account to be blocked. And I think this led to a 
delay in Mr L being advised of what had happened and knowing what he needed to provide 
to get the payment unblocked. 
I want to acknowledge that this situation occurred during a difficult time for Mr L and his 
family. But as I do not think Lloyds has made an error in the circumstances, I dont think it 
needs to do anything further to remedy the complaint.     My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman