DRN-3418256
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as MINI Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr W experienced issues with the cruise control in March 2021. The issues included the 
cruise control failing to engage, failing to slow down, failing to increase speed and failing to 
disengage.
Mr W contacted the dealership in June 2021. An appointment was made for the car to be 
inspected. However, a dispute arose over the supply of a loan car and the inspection didnt 
go ahead.
Mr W complained to BMWFS. In response, BMWFS said it wasnt upholding the complaint 
because it hadnt seen any evidence that there was a fault with the car.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that there was a fault with the car 
and that because the fault arose in the first 6 months, BMWFS should arrange for repairs.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said it required a diagnostic report to evidence what was wrong with 
the car before a repair could be carried out. It said that Mr W would need to book the car into 
a mini dealer of his choice to obtain a diagnostic. BMWFS said it didnt agree to a partial 
refund of payments made by Mr W since March 2021 because it hadnt seen any evidence 
of a fault and because Mr W had been able to use the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that good must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes the general 
state and condition of the car, as well as other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Mr W was supplied with a brand-new car. So, Id expect it to be of a very high quality and to 
be free from minor defects for a reasonable period of time.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months which renders the 
car of unsatisfactory quality, theres a presumption that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 
months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether there is a fault with the car. 
BMWFS has said theres no evidence of a fault. However, Mr W has provided photographs 
showing the issues with the cruise control. This evidence covers the period May 2021 to 
November 2021. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there is a fault with the cruise 
control.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Ive 
already said that Id expect a brand-new car to be of a very high quality and to be free from 
minor defects for a reasonable period of time. In this case, the fault with the cruise control 
occurred within the first 6 months of the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect to experience a fault of this nature so early on in the agreement. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply because 
it wasnt free from minor defects for a reasonable period of time. 
BMWFS has said its up to Mr W to provide evidence that the car has a fault.. I disagree. Im 
satisfied that the fault has been evidence by the photos supplied by Mr W and that the fault 
occurred within the first 6 months of the point of supply. The relevant legislation obliges the 
business to put things right here. Id expect BMWFS to arrange an inspection and diagnostic 
of the car, and to arrange for repairs. I dont think its reasonable to ask Mr W to arrange the 
inspection, particularly as hes already tried to do this on a previous occasion. I also think 
that BMWFS has had a reasonable opportunity to arrange an inspection during the course of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, BMWFS must arrange an inspection and diagnostic of the car at an 
approved dealership and must arrange for repairs to be carried out at no cost to Mr W.
Mr W has been able to drive the car despite the fault with the cruise control. However, his 
use and enjoyment of the car has been impacted by the fault. I think its fair to ask BMWFS to 
refund 10% of all payments made by Mr W since March 2021 to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading 
as MINI Financial Services must:
Arrange for and cover the cost of a diagnostic inspection and repairs
Refund 10% of rentals paid by Mr W from March 2021 to the date when the fault is repaired
Pay 8% simple interest o n the amount refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman