DRN-3303574
The complaint
Ms S complains about delays by HSBC UK Bank PLC when sending her a debit card. 
What happened
At the beginning of November 2020 Ms S opened a new account for non UK residents with 
HSBC. HSBC confirmed the account was approved at the beginning of December 2020 and 
arranged for a debit card and PIN to be sent to Ms S. 
Ms S complained to HSBC about the time taken to look at her application. It responded on 
10 December 2021 and apologised, paying £75 into Ms S new account for the 
inconvenience caused. 
In January 2021 Ms S contacted HSBC as her debit card and PIN hadnt arrived. Ms S has 
explained she offered to pay for a courier so delivery could be arranged. A replacement PIN 
was sent to Ms S and HSBC sent another debit card to a branch. The branch then sent the 
debit card to Ms S via recorded delivery and it was delivered around a month later. 
Ms S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought HSBC had dealt with Ms S complaint fairly. Ms S asked to appeal, so her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the available information to see whether HSBC unreasonably delayed Ms S 
receiving a debit card after she opened a new account. Ms S application took around a 
month to process and be approved. HSBC has provided information to show it ordered Ms S 
a debit card at the start of December 2020. HSBC had Ms S address on file and Im 
satisfied it was sent to her as claimed. 
I understand Ms S didnt receive the debit card in question so contacted HSBC again 
towards the end of January 2021 to raise the issue. Ms S has told us the delay in receiving 
the replacement debit card affected her familys Christmas. But I havent seen anything that 
shows Ms S raised the issue with HSBC until January 2021, after Christmas had passed. 
Ive looked at what HSBC did after Ms S advised her card and PIN hadnt been received. 
HSBC arranged for the PIN to be resent. It also took steps to send Ms S card out to her by 
recorded delivery. I know Ms S was willing to pay for a courier. But Im satisfied sending the 
debit card via recorded delivery was a reasonable alternative and added an additional layer 
of security to the process.
The debit card took around a month to be delivered. I appreciate this was a further delay but 
its not something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. Im satisfied sending Ms S card via 
recorded delivery was a reasonable approach. The subsequent delay was outside of 
HSBCs control so I dont think it would be fair to award compensation to reflect the 
additional inconvenience it caused. 
I dont doubt the issue raised caused Ms S some distress and inconvenience, but Im 
satisfied HSBC dealt with her complaint fairly. HSBC paid Ms S £75 and apologised for the 
delays in handling her application. Taking everything Ms S has told us about how the issues 
raised have impacted her into account, Im satisfied HSBC has already paid a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling HSBC to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms S complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman