DRN-1690241
The complaint
Mr H complains about the time it took his home insurer, now called Fairmead Insurance 
Limited (Fairmead) to pay the settlement for a claim.
Any reference to Fairmead in this decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his home insurance policy in mid-June 2019, after flood water entered 
part of his home. A loss adjuster considered the claim. Mr H says that the loss adjuster told 
him to begin replacing some of the flood damaged items as soon as theyd been looked at.
On 16 August, Mr H and the loss adjuster agreed a cash settlement of £30,000 for the 
claimed damage to the house and the costs incurred replacing flood damaged items. Mr H, 
expecting the money to be paid quickly, paid a £2,000 non-refundable deposit to a builder 
later that day. A letter from the builder confirming receipt of the payment said work would 
start on 9 September.
But Fairmead questioned the loss adjusters report, and wouldnt pay the settlement until 
they were sure it was correct. Mr H became frustrated by this delay, and by what he felt was 
a lack of updates from Fairmead. He raised his complaint.
Mr H couldnt pay his builder the rest of the money needed for the work, or give him a date 
when hed have the money from Fairmead. This led to Mr H and the builder parting ways. 
That meant Mr H lost the £2,000 deposit that hed paid. Mr H also began to struggle to pay 
his mortgage, given hed spent his own money replacing the flood damaged items ahead of 
the settlement.
Fairmead paid the settlement in two parts  the majority on 23 September, and the rest on 
22 October. This was still £180 less than had been agreed, so a third payment was made 
during the complaint handling process. 
In response to the complaint, Fairmead agreed itd taken too long between the loss adjuster 
agreeing the settlement and this being paid to Mr H. They offered £300 to compensate Mr H 
for the frustration and inconvenience caused, but felt that the lost £2,000 deposit wasnt 
linked to their failing. They said this was a matter between Mr H and his builder.
Mr H didnt agree, so the matter came to us. Our investigator found that the lost £2,000 
deposit was linked to Fairmeads failing, as Mr H probably wouldnt have paid this when he 
did if the loss adjuster hadnt led him to think the settlement would be paid earlier. The 
investigator also felt the £300 compensation was right for the upset and inconvenience 
caused. 
Fairmead didnt agree with this finding, saying again that they didnt think they should be 
responsible for the lost £2,000 as this was a matter between Mr H and his builder. Mr H was 
originally willing to accept the investigators findings, but when the matter wasnt resolved he 
said he felt the compensation for the trouble and upset caused wasnt high enough.
As the matter hasnt been resolved by our investigators view, its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain my decision, and why 
this leads to a remedy where Fairmead pays Mr H £2,300 compensation, plus some interest. 
Ive looked at the emails from the loss adjuster to Mr H, and listened to the recordings of 
phone calls between them. From these, I find Mr H was given an expectation that the 
settlement of his claim was agreed on 16 August 2019, and thered be no further need to 
justify the amount. 
While I cant see any expectations were set about when the payment would be made, I note 
Mr Hs comments that the loss adjuster had already told him to replace his damaged 
contents. I think that set an expectation that payment would be relatively quick  probably 
within a week or two of being approved. I also think generally a customer can expect 
payment of an insurance settlement to be made promptly after its agreed. And I cant see 
Fairmead gave any warnings that payment of the agreed amount was going to be delayed in 
Mr Hs specific case. 
So I can understand why Mr H was expecting the payment to be made promptly after the 
settlement terms were agreed on 16 August. An expectation of payment by the end of 
August would seem reasonable to me. A prompt payment such as this is also the 
expectation set out in the Insurance: Conduct of Business (ICOBS) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook for regulated businesses. 
The correspondence after that date shows me that the delay settling the claim arose 
because Fairmead werent happy with the report the loss adjuster had given them. I can 
appreciate Fairmead wanted to be sure the claim was being paid out correctly. But the delay 
that caused affected Mr H. 
I find the delay was handled unreasonably by Fairmead, falling short of the further 
expectation in ICOBS that theyd provide appropriate information on the progress of the 
claim. Mr H contacted Fairmead repeatedly in September 2019 seeking an update and 
explaining the troubles he was having because the claim hadnt been settled as agreed. 
Fairmead should have done more to give him a firm timescale for sorting out the problems 
with the claim handling. And they should have done more to proactively update Mr H, rather 
than waiting for him to call seeking an update.
Putting things right
The delay and poor communication had two types of impact on Mr H  a financial loss and 
an emotional impact. Ill look at the financial loss first.
Mr H has sent us two letters the builder he paid wrote in August 2019, and a copy of his 
bank statements from the time. These show me Mr H paid £2,000 in cash to the builder on 
16 August, as a non-refundable deposit, for work to repair the flood damage. 
I appreciate Fairmead feel the loss of that deposit doesnt link to their failings, but I disagree. 
The delay paying Mr H the agreed settlement meant he didnt have the money he needed to pay the builder the rest of what was needed when work was due to start in early September. 
That meant Mr H couldnt uphold his side of the agreement, so the builder appears to have 
cancelled it and kept the deposit. Had Fairmead not delayed paying Mr Hs claim, he could 
have afforded to pay the builder, and the deposit wouldnt have been lost. 
Ive thought about whether Mr H should have done more to agree a delay to the work with 
the builder. But I find that Fairmeads lack of information setting out a firm timescale for when 
the settlement would be paid made this too difficult for Mr H to do. I can appreciate the 
builder wouldnt have kept refusing other work in order to wait for Mr H, when he couldnt 
give any firm dates for how long that wait would be. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr H could have done more to go back to the builder to try 
to salvage their agreement after receiving the first instalment of the settlement at the end of 
September. But I appreciate how the stress of the dispute with the builder, and by that time 
with Fairmead too, made this step too difficult as well. I also accept Mr Hs statements that 
the relationship with the builder had broken down quite badly and couldnt be recovered, 
given the dispute that had arisen.
So I find Mr H shouldnt have to bear the £2,000 loss, when it arose from Fairmeads failure 
to pay the agreed settlement in a prompt and reasonable way. Fairmead should bear the 
loss instead, to put right the impact of their failing. They should also pay simple interest on 
this sum, at the statutory 8% per year, from the date the deposit was lost. Ive taken this to 
be 9 September 2019, when the work had been due to start. 
If Fairmead considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Moving on to the emotional impact, its clear from Mr Hs calls and correspondence with 
Fairmead at the time that the delay paying him the agreed settlement caused frustration and 
upset. 
In addition, Mr H has described how he had to use credit cards and was left struggling to 
afford his mortgage when the reimbursement for the replaced flood damaged items was 
delayed. Hes also said that the delay starting repairs left him worried the damage to his 
property would get worse. And Mr H has spoken to us about a health condition he was, and 
still is, dealing with. Hes described his experience with Fairmead and the dispute with the 
builder as an unwelcome stress on top of that condition. 
Ive decided some compensation should be paid to acknowledge that emotional impact on 
Mr H. Picking an exact amount is a matter of opinion, but Ive factored in the details above. 
Ive also taken account of the fact the delay lasted a limited amount of time  settlement was 
paid within a couple of months of when Mr H was expecting it to be. And Ive considered how 
some of the upset will be put right once the lost deposit is reimbursed by Fairmead. 
In my view, a figure in the hundreds of pounds, not the thousands, feels right for this case. 
Fairmead offered £300 in this case, which Ive decided to award as the remedy for the 
emotional impact caused to Mr H. When coupled with the compensation for the financial 
loss, plus the interest on that amount, the combined remedy amount is suitable taking into 
account the overall impact on Mr H.My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Legal & General Insurance Limited, and direct them to carry 
out the following steps to put things right:
Pay £2,000 to Mr H to reimburse the lost deposit amount.
Pay simple interest at 8% per year on that amount, for the period from 9 September 
2019 to the date that payment is made.
Pay £300 to Mr H to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman