DRN-4261221
The complaint
Mr F and Ms W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc are holding them liable for what they say
are unauthorised transactions made on their account.
Whilst the account in question is a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done all the
correspondence on the complaint, Ill mostly just refer to Mr F where I mean both him and
Ms W.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
an overview of some of the key events here.
Mr F says that on the evening of 4 June 2022 he was out with friends. Late in the evening he
realised his phone was lost or stolen. In the early hours of 5 June 2022, there were multiple
unsuccessful attempts to log in to Mr Fs HSBC mobile banking app, resulting in the app
being locked.
Mr Fs app for an account he held with another business R was accessed. And from there
debit card top-ups were made to credit the account with R, using the credentials from
Mr Fs HSBC debit card. There were also unsuccessful attempts to move money in this way.
Ultimately a total of £4,510 was moved from the HSBC account to the account with R via this
method.
Also overnight a £10,000 loan with a lender Ill refer to as L was paid into Mr Fs HSBC
account. And some of the funds moved to R came from this loan. Once the funds were in the
account with R, card spending took place for approximately £4,500 which involved goods
being ordered online before being collected in a store.
In summary Mr F says he knows nothing about any of this activity with either HSBC, R or L.
He says hes been a victim and didnt apply for the lending or authorise any of the payments.
He says when he discovered all this he reported it to each business. He also returned to L
over £5,000 of the loan funds that remained in his HSBC account. Mr F complained to all
three businesses.
L said they couldnt do more at the time as they were awaiting a copy of HSBCs fraud
investigation. HSBC essentially said that Mr F should take this matter up with R, as the funds
were all transferred into his own account with them and they deemed R to be the point of
loss. R similarly didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
All three complaints were referred to our service. The complaint about R has already been
decided by one of my Ombudsman colleagues. A final decision was issued in December
2022 which didnt uphold the complaint. The Ombudsman said I consider it reasonable that
[R] held Mr F responsible for the payments as being authorised.
One of our Investigators considered the complaints about L and HSBC. They didnt uphold
either. For the HSBC complaint the Investigator thought it more likely than not that Mr F had
consented to the transactions from his account. Mr F strongly disagreed and asked for an
Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as
there are some minor differences in my reasoning, Im issuing this provisional decision to
give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Im aware of Mr Fs linked complaint about L. But this decision only relates to whether HSBC
have treated Mr F fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Mr Fs strength of feeling about this complaint is clear. And accordingly hes made some
detailed submissions. Ive read and considered all Mr F has sent in, but I wont be
responding in similar detail. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the
informal nature of our service.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) are a key consideration to this complaint.
Generally speaking customers will only usually be liable for payments made from their
account if they authorised them. Authorisation in this context requires both authentication
(through the agreed process for making a payment) and consent. So it isnt enough that the
payments were correctly authenticated, if Mr F hadnt consented to them, then he wouldnt
generally be responsible for them.
Im satisfied that each of the payments that left Mr Fs HSBC account were correctly
authenticated using the details of his debit card that was presumably saved on Rs platform.
The card activity report from HSBC that Ive seen confirms this and it also indicates that
further authentication was completed via text messages being sent at the time. But I still
need to consider whether Mr F consented to these payments or had no involvement as he
claims.
The payments concerned were instructed from within Rs app. To be able to do this,
someone would have needed to have had Mr Fs physical phone. They most likely would
have needed to have bypassed the phones own security (which Mr F says was fingerprint
and passcode protected) and to have entered a PIN code to access Rs app.
Mr Fs testimony is that he doesnt know exactly how his phone was lost / stolen. He has
suggested that he must have been pick-pocketed on the night out in question and that this
could have been done soon after hed put his unlocked phone in his pocket, prior to the
phone locking itself again. He has also said that his emails within his phone werent
password protected and that they would have included a great deal of personal information
about him, as hed relatively recently moved house and documents relating to this would
have been present. Mr F also said that the PIN for Rs app was something that could be
guessed as it was based upon some of his personal information.
None of the activity involved could have taken place without someone having access to
Mr Fs phone. Mr F says he didnt have the physical phone as it was lost / stolen. But as Ive
mentioned above, more than the physical phone was required to instruct the payments from
his HSBC account.
Obviously I wasnt present with Mr Fs phone when these payments took place. So I have tomake my findings on the balance of probability. That being, what I think is most likely to have
happened, considering all the available evidence. The version of events Mr F has suggested
to account for the compromise of his phone isnt impossible. I appreciate that fraudsters can
be sophisticated and opportunistic as Mr F has said. I also appreciate the lengths Mr F has
gone to in pursuing his complaint, which includes reporting matters to Action Fraud, writing
to his MP and attempting to obtain CCTV from at least one of the bars he attended that
evening.
The activity surrounding the HSBC mobile banking being locked does look suspicious and
could be potentially indicative of third-party involvement. But there are a number of other
possibilities which could explain such activity. These include that the log in details could
have genuinely been forgotten or it could have been done to create doubt as to the nature of
what went on. It also doesnt negate the possibility that it could have been a third party with
Mr Fs consent. So the fact that there were numerous failed attempts to log in, isnt in itself
conclusive. And whilst I cant be sure why this happened, it does seem strange that a third
party would have the loan paid into the HSBC account rather than the account with R (which
they had access to) knowing it would be more difficult to disperse these funds.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the most likely explanation for what went on is
that Mr Fs security to his phone and app with R was compromised. This isnt a case where
Mr Fs phone was snatched from him whilst unlocked. If a device has biometric security and
this is used (as Mr F says it was) then I think most people commonly use that functionality
rather than regularly entering their passcode, negating the likelihood of it having been
observed and used by a third party to access Mr Fs phone. And I think most people
habitually lock their phones when putting them away or into a pocket. But even if that wasnt
the case, I think the chances of someone pick-pocketing Mr F at that exact moment, and
then managing to keep the phone active long enough to change any auto-lock settings or
otherwise bypassing the security, as well as correctly guessing the PIN for his app with R
(even taking account of information that he says would have been available in his emails)
whilst not impossible, on balance is unlikely. And given that finding, I dont think HSBC
declining to refund the disputed transactions is unfair nor unreasonable. I think the most
likely explanation, balancing all the evidence, is that Mr F had involvement in the payments
he is disputing such that they can fairly be considered as authorised.
I appreciate much of Mr Fs submissions have focussed on other issues. Such as whether
HSBC ought to have intervened in the payments being made and whether his debit card
should have been blocked when his mobile banking was locked. But as Im supportive of
HSBCs decision, none of Mr Fs further points make a difference to the outcome of the
complaint. So it follows, that because I think its more likely than not that Mr F had
involvement in the payments he is disputing, even if HSBC ought to have done more to
question any of the payments to the account with R, Im not persuaded that this would have
made a difference.
Mr F has also focussed on the collection of the goods purchased from the payments made
from his account with R. But as Ive referenced above, this matter has already been decided
by one of my colleagues who found that R had acted fairly when treating the payments as
authorised. So, that isnt something I can comment on.
HSBC responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision. Mr F provided some 
further comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mr Fs further responses primarily relate to his complaint about L. But where they 
are also relevant to his complaint about HSBC, Ill address them here. 
Mr Fs further submissions include that his phone was only passcode protected. He says 
there was no biometric security and he doesnt remember advising there was. My provisional 
decision referred to there being biometric security on the phone at the time. This was based 
on a call between Mr F and H on 6 June 2022. The context of the call was that Mr F was 
reporting that he didnt recognise the activity on his account. During that call the following 
exchange took place: 
HSBC: May I know what type of phone did you lose sir? Was it an android or an iPhone?
Mr F:   Android.
HSBC: Was there a fingerprint scanner on that phone?
Mr F:   There was yes and a passcode, so Im not too sure how this has happened to be 
honest with you.
Ive shared this exchange with Mr F and he says his answer meant that his phone had the 
functionality to use a fingerprint scanner but it wasnt in use. He also clarified that it is not a 
two stage process and either a fingerprint (if in use) or a passcode can be used. I accept that 
its common, where a fingerprint scanner is in use, that the option usually exists to also use a 
passcode. 
But in the context of the conversation Mr F was having with HSBC, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr F meant that he did use biometric security on his phone. Had it been an 
option that wasnt in use, I think he would have stated this more clearly at the time. 
Particularly as the clear purpose of the question was to ask about the security features in 
use to help establish how someone might have accessed his phone. Ultimately, given my 
interpretation that Ive explained above, Im more persuaded by this phone call which took 
place around the time rather than what Mr F has said more recently. And given this finding, 
for the reasons previously explained, Im still not persuaded there is a plausible explanation 
for how a third party could have accessed Mr Fs phone which enabled all the further activity 
to take place. 
Mr F has also speculated that rather than perhaps being pickpocketed, his phone could have 
been taken or lost whilst in a taxi returning him to his hotel at the end of the night. He also 
explained that he had been drinking on the day in question and thinks its a possibility that 
the taxi driver could have taken advantage of the situation. However, Mr Fs previous 
submissions to our service include an email in June 2023. In that email he said hed been in 
the bar from which he later sought CCTV evidence and that he left around midnight where 
my stay at the bar was short, due to the realisation I didnt have my device. But Mr F is now 
seeming to suggest that he did have his device when leaving the bar to get a taxi back to his 
hotel. So whilst I acknowledge Mr F has said he was drinking that day, the impact of him 
saying different things at different times makes it difficult for me to treat his testimony 
evidence as persuasive or reliable. 
I accept that this is a balanced case and that I cant know with absolute certainty what 
happened. And also that the version of events that Mr F has described isnt impossible. But 
taking account of all the information and evidence provided, I dont think it was unfair nor 
unreasonable for HSBC not to treat the payments made from the account as unauthorised. 
And as such, Im not going to direct that they need to do more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman