DRN-1408846
The complaint
Ms Z complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has only paid her 
25% of her pension pot as a lump sum. She believes it should have paid her the entire value 
and tax free. Ms Z is unhappy that her annuity payments are being taxed.
Background
Ms Z contacted Royal London in 2009 about taking her pension benefits. She had reached 
age 50 which was the earliest age at the time that she could take her benefits. Royal London 
sent her retirement pack which detailed all her options and required her to make selections 
about how she wished to take her benefits.
Ms Z signed the forms and sent them back to Royal London. Ms Z selected to have 25% of 
the fund paid as tax free cash and the remaining money as a monthly annuity. 
At the time pension benefits could only be taken as a lump sum if they met certain 
conditions. One of these conditions was that the policy-holder was at least 60, so Ms Z 
wasnt eligible for this option. And it wasnt included in the options given to Ms Z.
In 2011 Ms Z complained to Royal London when it told her she was unable to take any 
further lump sums from her pension. In 2015 Royal London wrote to Ms Z explaining why 
and how tax was taken from her annuity. It explained that HMRC provides it with her tax-
code and it had taken tax in line with this.
More recently Ms Z raised a further complaint. Shes explained that she is in financial 
difficulty and wants to take all her pension tax free. Ms Z says this was what shed been told 
she could do by Royal London and she thinks shes been misled.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Royal London had done anything 
wrong. She explained that Royal London had acted in line with Ms Zs instructions and the 
regulations at the time when Ms Z took her benefits. There wasnt any evidence that Ms Z 
had been misled. And with regards to the taxation of her annuity, the investigator explained 
Royal London had applied her tax code as instructed by HMRC.
Ms Z was unhappy with this; shes told us that Royal London has provided false information. 
And that her pension was falsely directed to an annuity with Royal London.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the recommendations of our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Ms Z is having. But to be able to uphold her 
complaint, wed need to see that Royal London has done something wrong.Our investigator has already explained why Ms Z was unable to take her whole pension as a 
lump sum. The regulations at the time did not allow for this in her circumstances. And the 
evidence shows that Ms Z completed forms to receive an annuity. Royal London has paid 
Ms Z what was agreed under the annuity.
This was an agreement entered into for life. And Royal London has taken a business 
decision not to allow the cashing in of annuities already in place, so Ms Z wont receive a 
lump sum for the value of her annuity. I appreciate this is disappointing for Ms Z but again 
Royal London hasnt done anything wrong here.
Ms Z has said Royal London has sent us false information and falsely converted her policy 
into an annuity. But the evidence doesnt support this. Ms Z contacted Royal London to take 
her benefits, it supplied her with the options she had at that time and Ms Z signed forms to 
agree to take an annuity and a tax free lump sum.  As I said before, the option to take all her 
benefits as a lump sum wasnt available at that time. 
I dont think its likely either that Royal London wouldve told Ms Z that she could take all her 
benefits as a tax free lump sum. This would never have been an option for Ms Z in the time 
that she had her pension plan. And weve no corroborating evidence that Ms Z was told this. 
The evidence from the time shows that Ms Z was provided with the correct information 
regarding her options. 
With regards to the taxation of Ms Zs annuity, whilst this is taken at source by Royal 
London, it relies on the instructions given by HMRC. Annuities are not tax free and never 
have been, unless a particular persons situation means they dont pay tax. But this is 
something Ms Z will have to take up with HMRC if she thinks she is being taxed incorrectly. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Zs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman