DRN-3207090
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly reduced the credit limit on his account. 
Hes also unhappy that theyve made an error that will affect his credit file.
What happened
Mr R had a Barclays credit card. On 8 April 2021 they wrote to him, saying theyd be 
reducing his credit limit from £12,500 to £2,800. This letter said the change was being made 
because Barclays keep an eye on customers accounts to make sure theyre not borrowing 
more than they can afford. They said they do this by looking at things like whether any 
payments have been missed, and by checking data held by credit reference agencies.
 
Mr R complained that Barclays had made a mistake. He said hed never missed a payment  
hed had a direct debit set up to make sure of this. He felt sure his credit history was good 
because hed received offers of balance transfers of around £20,000 from each of his two 
other credit card providers. Barclays didnt answer Mr Rs complaint, so he asked us to look 
into things for him.
 
Our investigator was satisfied that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. He said theyd 
made this decision to be sure Mr R wasnt borrowing more than he could comfortably afford, 
which was a fair and reasonable thing for them to do as a responsible lender. He noted that 
their terms and conditions say theyre entitled to review and change Mr Rs credit limit if 
necessary. He said different banks have different ways of assessing customers needs  and 
that he hadnt seen any evidence that Barclays decision had caused Mr R any financial 
hardship. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review the case again. He said Barclays had stated that 
hed missed or been late with payments, which wasnt true. He felt strongly that they 
shouldnt say things that werent correct  and that they were messing up his credit file. 
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Mr R has told us that he hasnt suffered any financial impact as a result of his credit limit 
being reduced. Having reviewed his account statements, Ive seen that he made a payment 
of £12,100 to his account on 7 April 2021, clearing his outstanding balance. So, I can 
appreciate his confusion as to why Barclays wrote to him the following day, saying theyd 
decided to reduce his credit limit to make sure he wasnt borrowing more than he could 
comfortably afford to repay.
The terms on which Barclays agreed to provide Mr Rs credit card are set out in their 
account terms and conditions. Ive read these carefully. They say Barclays review 
customers credit limits from time to time, and that, if they decide to change the credit limit, 
theyll write to the customer to let them know. They go on to say that they wont reduce a 
customers credit limit to less than the total outstanding balance, plus any transactions that 
have been authorised but not yet charged to the account. 
In this case Barclays have told us that Mr Rs account was selected for a credit limit 
reduction. Im satisfied that theyre entitled to review the amount of credit theyre prepared to 
lend and that they waited until Mr R had reduced his outstanding balance before 
implementing this change, in line with their terms and conditions. I think thats fair and 
reasonable, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask Barclays to reinstate Mr Rs credit 
limit. 
Mr R is concerned that Barclays had incorrectly stated that hed missed or been late with his 
payments - and that this kind of error could mess up his credit rating. Having read Barclays 
letter dated 8 April 2021, I think it explains that this is just an example of the kind of thing 
they might take into account when they review a customers credit limit. I havent seen any 
evidence that they told Mr R this was the reason his credit limit had been reduced.
 
Having reviewed Mr Rs account statements, I havent seen any missed or late payments in 
the months leading up to the decision to reduce his credit limit. Barclays have confirmed 
that, in the period between November 2020 and June 2021, they reported Mr R as having 
made all the required contractual payments on time. As I havent seen any evidence that 
Barclays recorded adverse information on Mr Rs credit file about this account, Im satisfied 
that they havent made an error here. I hope Mr R feels reassured knowing someone 
independent has looked into his concerns about this.
I said I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I invited both parties to send me any 
further information or comments theyd like me to consider. 
Mr R didnt respond. Barclays said they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or comments in response to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman