DRN-2790808
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr M has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company
(CMC). But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having
been with, and from, Mr M himself.
Mr M was given 2 loans by Bamboo. He borrowed £1500 in June 2017 and agreed to repay 
this over 24 months. He took out a second loan with Bamboo in May 2019. There was a 
small balance to repay from loan 1, but the vast majority of the capital was passed to Mr M. 
In total he was due to repay £2985.27 over 36 months. When Mr M made his complaint to 
Bamboo, he had a balance to repay from this second loan.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, she felt Bamboo had made proportionate checks when 
it agreed to both loans. She went on and considered what Bamboo would have seen and 
drew a conclusion that it made fair lending decisions on each occasion. So, she didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information Bamboo 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr M.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed to the first loan. It asked Mr 
M about his income and his contribution to accommodation. It says it verified his income 
using an online tool. It then used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living 
expenses. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. 
Those checks suggested Mr M had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan 
repayments. 
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that Bamboo wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Bamboos checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Bamboo gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Bamboo conducted. The search showed that Mr M 
had 7 credit cards, A bank account and another 2 loans. He had total unsecured debt of 
around £20,000. I can see that Bamboo has calculated Mr Ms total monthly repayments to 
be around £1070 to service this debt. When I consider this alongside how much Bamboo 
validated Mr Ms monthly income to be, I can see that this is a fairly significant proportion of 
his wages.
That said, the credit Mr M had taken out seemed to be very well managed. He was not in 
arrears with any of his accounts and I couldnt see any other signs that he was having 
problems managing his finances. He was also not utilising credit that he had available to him 
such as his bank overdraft limit and some of his credit card limits also. There was also very 
little recent credit taken out and no active short-term finance. There was nothing within the 
information that Bamboo had gathered that would contradict Mr Ms declarations or the other 
information that it had gathered. It said Mr M would have had disposable income of £735 that 
would have meant the relatively small loan repayment of £92 would have been comfortably 
affordable for him. So with this in mind and from what I have already concluded I dont think 
there were any reasons why Bamboo would need to undertake further enquiries here or that 
there were grounds for it to decline the application from the start. 
I do think the repayments on his credit cards and loans did represent a fairly sizable 
proportion of Mr Ms monthly income. But in the circumstances, as I have already described, 
on balance, I think the loan was sustainably affordable for him.
Mr M then came back and asked Bamboo for a second loan in May 2019. He had made 
almost all of the monthly repayments on the first loan, with only a small balance to repay. He refinanced this and had some additional capital as well. In total he asked for £2985.27 to be 
repaid over 3 years this time. 
Bamboo carried out the same checks as it did for the first loan, and I think these were 
proportionate as well. But again, I think it would need to react to what these checks showed. 
I have looked at the credit search Bamboo carried out for loan 2, some 23 months after it 
conducted a search for the first loan. This search showed that broadly Mr M had a similar 
amount of unsecured debt, this being around £21,000. He had 10 credit cards and 2 loans 
along with his current account. Again, his credit would appear very well managed with no 
missed payments, or any signs that his finances were under pressure. I can see from the 
information Bamboo gathered that Mr M had enough disposable income to be able to afford 
the loan repayment for loan 2 also.
 
I can see that the overall proportion of Mr Ms wages that he would need to put to credit 
repayment, had crept up slightly. But I think on balance, that Mr M seemed to be able to 
afford this and keep to all that he was committed to. So, I dont think there was anything that 
ought to have alerted Bamboo into doing anything further here. And the loan seemed 
affordable for him according to its assessment, based on its proportionate checks. So, it 
follows that I dont think it did anything wrong when it agreed to loan 2.
I acknowledge this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for and that his financial situation 
could have been worse than my assessment above might suggest. But I think that the 
checks Bamboo performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Mr M was facing any 
problems in managing his finances. I think Bamboo was entitled to rely on what Mr M said 
about his finances. And that information along with what it gathered suggested that he would 
be able to sustainably afford the repayments on both loans. So, I dont think Bamboo did 
anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman