DRN-1352550
 
The complaint
Mr G complains about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) interest charges 
following a late credit card payment.
What happened
Mr G accepts that his monthly credit card payment was less than the full balance. He says 
that was an accident, but he corrected the position within about two days. Mr G says 
AESEL charged him interest but ignored the fact he had repaid most of the monthly balance 
which he says is a scandal and illegal. He would like the interest refunded.
AESEL says it's not made a mistake and has acted in line with account terms and 
conditions. It says it charges interest on the full monthly balance unless full payment is 
received by a certain date. AESEL says Mr G was late making the payment and it doesn't 
matter that he then made an overpayment. It also says it refunded a previous interest 
payment as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr G made a late payment and in those circumstances AESEL, in line with account 
terms and conditions, was entitled to charge interest on the full amount. He thought the only 
way to avoid the interest was to repay the full monthly amount by the due date, which Mr G 
did not.
Mr G doesn't accept that view and says the amount of interest is excessive for a payment 
that was two days late and says AESEL practices are wrong. He maintains that the interest 
should be refunded and would like AESEL's business practices looked at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that interest will not be 
charged if the full balance is paid by a certain date, but if not, interest will be charged on the 
full amount. There is no dispute that Mr G did not repay the full monthly balance but only 
part. I appreciate that he did repay most of the balance. But I'm satisfied that AESEL has 
acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by charging interest in these 
circumstances, and hasn't made a mistake.
I appreciate that Mr G questions the amount of interest charged and says AESEL hasn't 
considered that the full payment was two days late. But I'm satisfied that for reasons I have 
explained, AESEL has acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions. I should also 
explain to Mr G that we are not auditors, and it's not our role to decide if an interest calculation is correct. I have not seen any evidence that the interest charged was incorrect or 
not applied in line with the terms and conditions.
We are not the regulator of AESEL, and so we can't tell it how it operates or order it to 
change its business practices. And whilst I appreciate Mr G says its actions may be illegal, 
that would be for a court to determine and not us.
Overall I don't think AESEL has made a mistake or acted unfairly, and so I can't order it to 
refund the interest as Mr G would like. I agree with the investigator that the only way for Mr 
G to have avoided the interest was to have repaid the full monthly balance by the due date, 
and that details of which were displayed on his monthly account statement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman