DRN-3290516
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc refused him a prospective mortgage 
having told him that he was a good risk
What happened
Mr E went to NatWest on an unrelated matter but was attracted by a NatWest promotion for 
their mortgage interest rates and had an online meeting with an adviser about a potential 
mortgage on his mortgage free property. Although Mr E was told that he was a good risk by 
the adviser, the application was declined. The adviser used a mortgage toolkit system which 
generated the decline. Mr E complained and NatWest said that an internal credit score was 
carried out which declined the application. Mr E raised some further issues. NatWest 
referred to a person in their letter who was present at the online interview but whom Mr E 
was unaware of. Mr E said that he gave his email address for the purposes of the online 
interview only and not for the purposes of the complaint. Mr E was unhappy that an 
appointment had to be arranged and that the mortgage toolkit should have been used at the 
first contact and didnt require a further interview. NatWest accepted these criticisms and 
offered Mr E £300 compensation for his trouble and upset  
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as NatWest had 
fairly assessed Mr Es application within its lending criteria and wasnt obliged to provide 
further information than it had already done. Mr E disagrees and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E brought this complaint to us because although he has assets and a decent income his 
application was declined without explanation and Mr E would like the refusal to be looked at. 
NatWest says that it uses a mortgage assessment which it refers to as a mortgage toolkit 
and says that 
When a mortgage toolkit is completed, an internal credit score is carried out. The credit 
scoring allocates points for each piece of information provided and these are added up to 
produce a score. Providing your score reaches a certain level and meets the Banks other 
policy requirements your request will generally be agreed. The way the Bank calculates your 
credit score must always remain confidential to protect the integrity of the system therefore I 
am unable to provide you with a specific reason as to why your application couldnt 
proceed.
That remains the banks position. Our investigator ascertained from NatWest that they 
obtained information from Mr E through asking a series of questions including verification of 
customer details, employment and income details, details of monthly commitments and 
questions about the property. The responses to those questions are entered into the 
mortgage toolkit which produces either a positive outcome or an indication that the 
application will result in a likely decline. NatWest says that in the process of generating the 
decision the mortgage toolkit will also do a soft credit check. I dont see anything unfair in 
NatWest using such a system to decide whether it wished to lend money to Mr E or not. It 
seems to have used the relevant variables we would expect it to use to generate a potential 
lending decision  income, outgoings, equity in property and credit check. Its industry 
practice to use such an electronic system and industry practice is one of the factors I have to 
consider in coming to my decision. As NatWest appears to have used the relevant 
information and used a recognised process in coming to its decision, I cant say that it acted 
unfairly in doing so.
Mr E did not meet the test and would like more information about why that it is. NatWest is 
unable to tell him as it simply knows that he failed to reach the score on its system that 
would have indicated an approval of the loan. I cannot say why Mr E failed except that if 
there is a history of late payment of a utility bill, as he mentioned to our investigator that may 
have influenced his credit score. But that doesnt mean that NatWest acted unfairly in 
coming to its decision.
An issue arose that although NatWest says that it told Mr E that it was going to use a soft 
credit check in coming to its lending decision, Mr E doesnt recall being told that. NatWest 
says that it needs to obtain the customers approval and the adviser will follow a script that 
requires the customers consent before proceeding to generate the soft credit check. My 
expectation is that in order to be fair to Mr E and come to a fair decision that NatWest would 
have generated such a check. There is a separate matter as to whether NatWest got Mr Es 
consent. There is clearly a script that the adviser was expected to follow and as I understand 
it there were two advisers present in a semi-training environment so I would have thought its 
likely that the script would be followed. Nor do I see any advantage for the adviser to ignore 
the obvious procedure and not follow the script. My concern here is with the fairness of 
NatWests lending decision and as it seems to have concerned itself with the correct 
variables and came to a conclusion based on industry practice through credit scoring I cant 
fairly say that it acted unfairly and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
I note that there were some service issues and that Mr Es expectations were raised by 
being described as a good risk before a credit search was carried out. NatWest has 
apologised and paid Mr E £300 which seems reasonable and I dont require it to pay any 
further compensation.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman