DRN-4077637
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss F, but I dont think Moneybarn need to take any action here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss F. The car here was 
already over ten years old and had completed over 96,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be experiencing significant wear and tear and consider that many 
components may be reaching the end of their serviceable life.
The dealership repaired, or paid for, several issues that Miss F referred to them in the first 
few months of ownership. Notably, I can see they replaced the engine and paid for repairs to 
a headlight, oil leak, and water pump. They also repaired a heater issue after theyd replaced 
the engine.
Miss F reported further issues from about October 2022 onwards. They included problems 
with the power steering, wiring, and a possible lambda sensor problem. But, whilst those 
issues have clearly been problematic, Moneybarn are only responsible for problems with the 
car when supplied, and Ive not seen evidence that would persuade me those issues were 
present or developing on this vehicle at the point of supply. 
The relevant legislation says we should also consider whether a car has been durable. I 
understand that this car has had several faults in the time Miss F has been in charge of it 
and that must have been very frustrating for her. But given its age and mileage I dont think 
those problems were unexpected, and Im not persuaded I therefore have evidence to 
suggest the vehicle hasnt been durable.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Moneybarn have been unreasonable here and Im not asking 
them to take any action.
Miss F has also been alerted to the car having been mapped and she says she wouldnt 
have proceeded with the deal had she known about that, or the enlarged tailpipe and 
enlarged air filter. Theyre not issues that Moneybarn have yet had a chance to respond to. 
So, Miss F will need to refer them to Moneybarn first, and if shes dissatisfied with the 
response she receives she can then escalate the complaint to this Service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman