DRN-3362547
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Arval UK Limited dealt with the collection of a car hed been 
supplied with under a hire agreement with them.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr O was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Arval. He 
paid an advance payment of £802.15 (which included a £65.12 maintenance fee), and 35 
monthly payments of £267.38 (which included a £21.71 maintenance fee).
When the agreement came to an end, Mr O arranged to return the car. He asked Arval for 
an afternoon collection, but Arval couldnt accommodate this, and said the collection would 
take place anytime between 8am and 6pm. Mr O complained because he wasnt happy with 
this, and Arval paid him a £30 gesture of goodwill.
But Mr O wasnt happy with this reply and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said there are no regulations which govern the timescales when a car can 
be collected, so he considered whether Arvals actions were unreasonable. While he 
appreciated Mr O was frustrated by this because he wanted to limit the time he took off work, 
the investigator didnt think Arval acted unreasonably by saying they couldnt accommodate 
Mr Os request.
The investigator also said that Arvals process wasnt unusual and was typical of most 
businesses when collecting cars. So, given all of this, he thought the £30 Arval had paid was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and he didnt think they needed to increase this.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed given Arval five weeks notice for a half-
day slot, so he thought they should be able to accommodate this. And he didnt think £30 
was fair because every time you venture into a bus lane or receive any fine, ARVAL charge 
a £15 admin fee. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints 
about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute  when the agreement came to an end, Mr O 
asked Arval for a collection in the afternoon. However, Arval couldnt accommodate this 
request, and they advised him that all collections take place between 8am and 6pm. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr O, as he had to take a whole day off work instead of a 
half-day. But I havent seen anything in the agreement Mr O signed to say that Arval would 
guarantee a time for collection. Arval have said their process is such that they cant confirm 
at what time a car would be collected. And I dont think this is unreasonable as collection can 
be affected by a number of factors such as the number of cars the collection agent needed 
to collect that day, as well as the location and condition of those cars and traffic conditions.
Arval provided Mr O with a timeslot the car would be collected and, while it wasnt as narrow 
as Mr O wanted, the car was collected within the period Mr O had been given. Because of 
this I think the £30 paid by Arval is reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking 
them to increase this.
Mr O has commented on the terms of the agreement, and the administration fees Arval 
charge under certain circumstances. While I appreciate his comments on this, I dont think 
that the administration fees have any bearing on whether Arval are able to guarantee a 
shorter timeslot for a car collection than they would normally be able to do. So, I dont 
consider these fees are a valid reason to ask Arval to increase their compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman