DRN-1395474
The complaint
Mr F complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) when his 
debit card was stolen whilst on holiday.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
very brief summary here. Mr F was on holiday with his wife when unfortunately he was a 
victim of crime. His bag containing his money, debit card, passport and phone was stolen. 
Mr H contacted Natwest to report the theft and his card was cancelled. 
There was further contact between Mr H and Natwest during  which he asked  to transfer 
money from his account to a travel rep and to someone in the UK. Only one of these 
transfers went through, the other was blocked by Natwests systems even though Mr F says 
he was told it would go through. Mr F was also frustrated that Natwest asked him security 
questions that he couldnt answer as hed told them hed lost his card. He was also annoyed 
theyd sent verification text messages to his phone, when hed again told Natwest it had 
been stolen. 
Natwest maintained that the systems they have in place are to protect their customers from 
fraud. But they agreed that some of the service theyd provided, including not sending a new 
PIN with the replacement card, hadnt been to the standard they usually strive for. So they 
offered £150 compensation and about £10 towards Mr Fs call costs to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mr F didnt accept this and referred the matter to our service. He says the compensation is 
inadequate. He says he was abroad with no access to funds and feels let down by Natwest. 
Our investigator agreed there were some things that Natwest could have done better. But 
overall she concluded that the compensation already offered was fair. Mr F still doesnt 
accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all our investigator has said about Mr Fs complaint and I agree with the 
outcome she reached. So I wont repeat everything here, but instead Ill summarise my 
reasons why. Mr F has also been very detailed in his submissions to our service. So if I dont 
refer to a particular point it isnt because I haven seen it, or thought about it. Its just that I 
dont feel I need to reference every point to explain my decision. I hope Mr F doesnt take 
this as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature or our service. 
Natwest have obligations to keep their customers money safe. The systems Natwest 
choose to put in place to meet those obligations are largely a business decision they are 
entitled to make. In circumstances like this where personal documents such as a passport 
have also been stolen, Natwest needs to be particularly careful to ensure they are speaking 
to the right person. Natwest themselves acknowledge they asked some inappropriate security questions during some of the calls, information Mr F couldnt have known without 
having his card for example. And Ive taken that into consideration when thinking about what 
a fair amount of compensation is. But Natwest were in a difficult position here given that they 
knew some of Mr Fs personal information had been compromised by the theft of his 
passport. And I dont think its unreasonable, where they have doubt or concerns as to the 
validity of an instruction, for Natwest to have secured the account and prevented money 
from leaving. 
So whilst I can understand it was frustrating that the transfer Mr F attempted to make was 
blocked, I dont think Natwest were unreasonable to do so. It was to a new payee, from 
overseas and for a larger amount than Mr F typically transferred. 
I can quite appreciate the difficult and upsetting situation Mr F found himself in. He was 
abroad with no phone, money or bank card. And what was meant to be an enjoyable and 
special holiday was significantly disrupted. But it wouldnt be fair to hold Natwest responsible 
for all the distress and inconvenience that Mr F experienced. 
The responsibility for the bulk of this rests with the person responsible for stealing Mr Fs bag 
and its contents. Had this happened in the UK, Mr H could have attended a branch and the 
matter might have been resolved more easily. But again I cant hold Natwest responsible for 
the difficulty he faced purely because he was abroad. And Im satisfied that Natwest did what 
they could to assist Mr F where they could. I wouldnt expect them to ignore or bypass their 
usual security systems. 
Natwest themselves have accepted that some of the service they provided could have been 
better. So all that remains to be decided is whether the £150 compensation and £10 towards 
call costs is a fair amount. I must as far as is possible think about only the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr F that Natwest can fairly be held responsible for. And in 
doing so, I think the compensation already offered is a fair amount in all the circumstances. 
So Im not going to tell Natwest to increase this amount or that they need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as I 
think National Westminster Bank Plc has already provided reasonable compensation to Mr 
H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman