DRN-3215933
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Covea Insurance plc avoided her car insurance policy (treated it 
like it never existed), refused to pay her claim and is trying to recover the costs its paid on 
third party claims. Mr M was driving and at fault for an incident which resulted in a claim that 
Covea settled under its obligations under the Road Traffic Act  
What happened
Mrs M took out a car insurance policy online via a comparison website through a broker 
policy with Covea. Mr M, a named driver, was involved in an incident in January 2018. When 
Mrs M reported the incident, Covea checked Mr Ms driving licence with the DVLA and found 
that he had motoring convictions which Mrs M hasnt declared when she took out the policy. 
After checking with its underwriters, Covea said it wouldnt have offered a policy if it had 
known Mr Ms correct driving history. So it avoided Mrs Ms policy in January 2018. It said it 
wouldnt deal with their claim (for damage to their car) and would retain the premium as it 
would deal with the third party claims it had received  as Mr M was held liable for the 
incident. 
In 2020 Covea wrote to Mrs M to seek recovery of the costs of the settled third party claims 
from the incident. This was for £10,819.22. 
In April 2021 Mrs M complained to Covea. She said it had previously told her in calls that 
she would not be responsible for the third party costs. She was unhappy with Coveas 
request for the recovery costs and unhappy with the decision to avoid the policy.
Covea didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said it was entitled to seek recovery of the third 
party claim costs as it dealt with their claim under the terms of the RTA as the last insurer. It 
said it had correctly avoided the policy as not all of Mr Ms driving history had been 
disclosed. It said it had asked Mrs M a clear question about them when she applied for the 
policy. Covea considered the misrepresentation by Mrs M as careless. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought Covea had reached its 
decision to avoid the policy reasonably, in line with the relevant legislation and the policy. 
But she thought it should have made Mrs M aware she would be responsible for the third 
party claim costs sooner. And so for this she recommended Covea pay Mrs M £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused when notified in September 2020. 
Covea didnt agree. It highlighted a call note from February 2019 where it discussed the third 
party claim costs with Mrs M as she asked why she was responsible for paying them. 
In November 20201 the Investigator issued a second view and didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
says Covea told her she wouldnt be responsible for the third party claim costs and she 
disputes the evidence provided by the third party in relation to their costs which Covea has 
settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she failed to declare all of Mr Ms driving convictions. Covea has provided a copy of the 
questions it asked Mrs M for her and the named driver Mr M when she applied for the policy. 
The key question was:
In the last five years, have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified from driving (including 
any pending prosecutions).
Mrs M disclosed two motoring convictions for Mr M from 2016, but failed to disclose two 
further convictions in his name from 2014 and 2017. 
Covea said its underwriters confirmed that it could no longer provide insurance for Mr M  
and wouldnt have offered a policy if Mrs M had correctly answered this question. 
Ive looked at the question asked and I think it was clear. I dont think Mrs M took reasonable 
care when answering it. Mrs M accepts that it was her error in not correctly answering this 
question. 
Covea has provided underwriting criteria evidence to show that it wouldnt have offered Mr M 
a policy based on the correct information. So Im satisfied that Mrs Ms misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one. Covea classed the misrepresentation as careless which I think was 
reasonable. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Covea can refund the premium paid where a misrepresentation is careless if no claim has 
been made against the policy. But in this case Covea dealt with a claim from third parties 
due to the incident which led to the avoidance of Mrs Ms policy. So where a claim has been 
made under the policy, an insurer is entitled to keep the premium paid under the contract in 
full. Covea explained in January 2018 that it would keep the premium as it was dealing with 
third party claims. The reason why Covea dealt with the third party claims is due to its obligations under the 
Road Traffic Act  its purpose being to prevent drivers not at fault for an incident from having 
no recourse from uninsured drivers. So Covea, as the last known insurer, was obligated to 
deal with the third party claims  them being not at fault for the incident. This also means 
however that Covea can look to recover those costs from the policyholder  as it had 
avoided the policy.
I think Covea reasonably avoided the policy, so this means it effectively didnt exist and there 
was no insurance cover in place for Mr Ms losses from the incident. And Ive found that 
Covea explained in the policy its right to recover claim costs from Mrs M in these 
circumstances. 
I understand Mrs M says she wasnt aware of the third party claim and costs until 2021. But I 
think Covea has shown that it made Mrs M aware of the costs in 2019. I appreciate that Mrs 
M doesnt agree  and Covea hasnt been able to retrieve the call recordings due to the time 
that has passed  but Im satisfied from the other available information that on balance 
Covea did tell Mrs M she was liable for the third party claim costs. In its letter to Mrs M in 
January 2018 confirming the avoidance, Covea said it would deal with the third party claims. 
But I accept it didnt make it clear in this letter that it would look to recover the costs of the 
third party claims from Mrs M when the claims were settled. 
It isnt unusual for some claims to take longer than others to settle  the circumstances can 
vary widely and depends on a number of issues such as repair damage, injury, and 
uninsured losses. 
I understand Mrs M is upset about Coveas decision to avoid her policy  and its request for 
recovery of the third party claim costs. But I dont think Covea has acted unreasonably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M. But from everything Ive seen Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman