DRN-2840417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly refused a 
claim they made on under their building warranty for repairs to a wood burning stove.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a new build property with an NHBC building warranty. More than two 
years into the policy, Mr and Mrs W reported an issue with the wood burning stove. They 
had a report carried out; it said the stove hadnt been installed correctly and noting issues 
with ventilation, which were a health and safety concern. 
NHBC didnt agree to cover the claim under the policy. It said given the time since the 
property was built, the claim would be looked at under section 3 of its policy which provides 
cover for physical damage. It said the issue with the stove wasnt as a result of any of the 
areas covered under section 3. Whilst it noted the construction of a flue is covered under the 
policy, it said there wasnt found to be problems with this. NHBC considered the issue to be 
coming from the installation of the stove itself, which isnt covered under the policy. 
NHBC also considered if the claim could be considered under another part of the policy 
relating to health and safety, given the concerns raised. But because of the way building 
control is done in the area where Mr and Mrs W live (it isnt carried out by NHBC) it said 
cover couldnt be provided under this section. 
Unhappy with its response Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. They said 
they had neighbours whod found the same issue and had repairs carried out by NHBC, so 
couldnt understand why their claim had been declined. 
Our investigator noted the seriousness of the health and safety concerns but said the 
installation of the stove isnt something that is covered under section 3 of their policy. So he 
thought NHBC had acted fairly in declining the claim. He said that whilst some neighbours 
had had repairs carried out, NHBC had said it had accepted these claims in error.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept this. They said theyd bought a new-build home that had a 
serious issue with it, and they shouldnt be expected to pay out to cover the cost of the 
repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the seriousness of Mr and Mrs Ws concern given the report they had 
carried out. But the NHBC building warranty doesnt cover every issue that may arise in their 
property. I can understand this is frustrating; as a buyer of a new-build home its not 
unreasonable to expect a property to be free from issues. But in considering this claim I can 
only look at whether the issue is covered by section 3 of the policy. 
Section 3 of Mr and Mrs Ws policy runs from year 3 to year 10 of the policy. It provides 
cover for physical damage to the home where the builder hasnt complied with certain 
requirements. 
For cover to be provided in this section, there must be physical damage to something listed 
in the policy as covered. Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws policy, I can see that flues and 
chimneys are covered by this section. But stoves arent. So Ive considered the reports 
provided by both parties to see if the claim should be covered.
Mr and Mrs Ws report says the type of adapter used when fitting the stove isnt compliant 
with the relevant standards and is causing a leak when the stove is in use. It seems to me 
that the adapter is part of the stove, rather than part of the construction of the flue or 
chimney. Whilst Mr and Mrs Ws report does comment on the flue - saying another lining 
should be installed - I dont think this report alone is enough to say there is a defect in the 
flue because it wasnt built to the building requirements. 
NHBCs report says the issues with the stove are not due to a failure to comply with 
mandatory requirements with the flue or chimney. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest those parts of the building werent constructed in line with the requirements. So 
overall, whilst its clear there is an issue, it isnt one that NHBC covers under this section.
NHBC has also said as there is no physical damage to the home, the issue isnt covered. 
Physical damage isnt defined any further in the policy. Mr and Mrs Ws report says the only 
current damage is staining to the base of the flue, which would get worse if the stove was 
used. Its possible this could be considered as physical damage, but even if I were to say it 
was, the cause of this damage is linked to the stove installation, not the flue. So I still dont 
think cover under section 3 applies. 
I accept that neighbouring properties have had their claim paid. NHBC doesnt deny other 
claims have been met but says it did so in error. Ive no reason to doubt this  given what the 
policy sets out. But I dont think I could fairly ask it to also cover this claim just because it has 
mistakenly done so in the past. 
NHBC has another section of the policy to provide cover where the is an immediate danger 
to someones health or safety because of a failure to meet building regulations. But it will 
only do so when NHBC has carried out the building control on the property. Unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs W, NHBC doesnt carry out this function in the region where they live. NHBC has 
said this is instead carried out by the local authority.
I can appreciate this is a very frustrating situation Mr and Mrs W find themselves in, through 
no fault of their own. But as I dont think the issue with the stove is covered under the policy, 
it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask NHBC to step in and carry out the repairs. Mr and 
Mrs W may be able to contact their local authority about this issue, but this isnt something 
this service can assist with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman