DRN-4196006
The complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his claim for 
damage to his bicycle under his bicycle insurance policy. 
Reference to Red Sands includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr C contacted Red Sands to make a claim on his bicycle insurance policy. 
He said hed damaged his mountain bike when he lost balance and his bike hit a tree and 
then a fence post. There were dents in the top tube of the bike and two bike shops thought it 
was unsafe to ride or repair. Red Sands asked a specialist cycle engineer (the engineer) to 
assess the damage. The engineer outlined the tests they conducted and concluded that 
there was no evidence of cracking on the frame. And the dents didnt compromise the 
structure of the frame or impair its function or performance. As cosmetic dents werent 
covered under Mr Cs policy, Red Sands declined his claim. 
Mr C complained. He wasnt happy with several aspects of the way Red Sands had handled 
his claim. He didnt agree that the damage was only cosmetic and he provided statements 
from two bike retailers in support of his contention. He also said his bike had been returned 
to him without its pedals and both front and back maxles (quick release axles). Red Sands 
maintained its decision, so Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially thought Red Sands had made a fair decision. He was satisfied with 
the level of expertise shown in the engineers assessment and thought, on balance, that the 
damage only appeared to be cosmetic in nature. Mr C disagreed and went to some lengths 
to gather more evidence to support his view that the damage was more than cosmetic. He 
provided x-rays of the frame and statements from two senior managers from the company 
that manufactured his bike (Company A). Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and 
concluded that a reasonable person wouldnt think it was safe to ride the bike in its current 
condition. And as its function had been impaired, he didnt think Red Sands could rely on the 
exclusion in Mr Cs policy. He recommended that Red Sands reconsider Mr Cs claim 
without relying on the exclusion.
Red Sands didnt agree and so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. I 
initially issued a provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, and made the following 
points:
The engineers report was more detailed than the evidence provided by Mr C. They 
had a lot of experience of working with aluminium and they explained in detail the 
tools theyd used to reach the conclusions they had. 
The engineers experience of stress analysis and materials was noticeable in the 
comments they made in response to statements from Company A. And their 
interpretation of the x-rays was persuasive, saying they supported their view that the 
damage was cosmetic.
It was significant that the engineer had inspected the bike in person while the two 
senior members of staff at Company A had only seen photographs of the damage.
 
I asked both parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr C provided further evidence 
in support of his contention that the damage to his bike was more than cosmetic. He 
provided a supporting statement from another bike retailer. And most significantly he 
provided a report by another engineer (engineer F). His view was that if the bike was used to 
its design limits, there was a very significant risk of catastrophic buckling failure to the top 
tube and thus the frame itself. Using a magnifying loupe, he found a crack in the aluminium 
tube in one of the gouges on the top tube. He also found a significant crack on the left side 
of the down tube and a heavy scratch on the lower surface of the top tube.
We shared engineer Fs report with Red Sands and its engineer provided their comments. 
They queried engineer Fs qualifications and experience. They also dismissed some of the 
statements hed made and noted that the crack in the gouge on the top tube hadnt been 
evident during their first inspection and must have been done subsequently. They also 
provided photographs taken at the time of that inspection to show that some of the other 
damage identified by engineer F wasnt there during their inspection and appears to have 
been made at a later date.
In light of this new evidence, I issued a second provisional decision, upholding the complaint. 
I made the following points:
Although Red Sands questioned the credentials of engineer F, I had no reason to 
doubt them.
The engineer questioned some of the technical aspects mentioned in engineer Fs 
report, including the integrity of the oval tube and oil canning. But I noted that 
engineer Fs comments on the risk of buckling supported those provided by a number 
of other commentators, including the manufacturers of the bike. 
The engineer questioned whether all the damage identified by engineer F was 
caused in the incident that led to the claim. I was satisfied the crack in the gouge on 
the top tube was most likely to have been present at the time Red Sands engineer 
inspected the bike, and any worsening of that damage had only been caused by the 
passage of time. 
I accepted that not all the damage identified by engineer F was caused in the incident 
that led to the claim. The damage to the down tube was not present when they first 
inspected the bike.
Taken together, I believed the weight of evidence supported the view that the damage to 
Mr Cs bike would impair its function or performance. So, I said Red Sands should pay to 
replace Mr Cs bike in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. I also thought it should 
reimburse Mr C for any costs hed incurred in providing the various reports hed provided, on 
receipt of evidence hed incurred those costs. And it should pay Mr C £100 to reimburse him 
for the cost of some items that had gone missing while the bike was being returned to Mr C. 
Again, I asked both parties to comment on my provisional findings. Red Sands engineer 
maintained their view that the damage was cosmetic and criticised some of the comments 
made by engineer F. They also said the crack in the gouge on the top tube was an 
impression rather than a crack and was most likely made by a screwdriver being hit by a 
hammer. And the impression wasnt there at the time of the original assessment. Red Sands 
said it now wanted to rely on page 18 of Mr Cs policy that referred to fraudulent claims, 
specifically the terms that said, making a claim for any loss or damage you caused 
deliberately; or acting dishonestly or exaggerating a claim. 
Mr C was upset about Red Sands allegations. He categorically denied using a screwdriver 
to damage his bike further. He provided further comments from engineer F who responded 
to some of the points made by Red Sands engineer and said he thought it highly unlikely the crack in the top tube were caused deliberately by a screwdriver and hammer. 
As this was the first time Red Sands had said they were relying on the fraudulent claims 
section of Mr Cs policy, our investigator considered that matter and set out his view in a 
letter to both parties in May 2023. He thought there was a legal precedent that could be 
applied to this case, namely the Supreme Court decision from 2016 in the case of Versloot 
Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG. In light of that case, he didnt think Red 
Sands could rely on the fraud clause in Mr Cs policy. 
Red Sands didnt agree and so the complaint has now come back to me to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances. 
This complaint has been ongoing for some time and Mr C has raised a number of concerns 
about the way Red Sands has handled his claim. I wont set out every detail hes referred to 
but Id like to reassure him that Ive read through all the information we have on file. 
Damage to Mr Cs bike
Mr Cs bicycle insurance policy covers him for the cost of repairing or replacing his bike if its 
damaged. But it doesnt cover him for damage caused by any cosmetic change that doesnt 
impair the function and/or performance of the bike. My role is to decide whether it was fair 
and reasonable for Red Sands to rely on that exclusion to decline Mr Cs claim. Its important 
at this point to note that when an insurer chooses to rely on an exclusion, its for the insurer 
to show that the claim can be reasonably excluded. The consumer, Mr C in this case, only 
has to show that an insured event has occurred. 
As I noted in my provisional decisions, the evidence in this case is very finely balanced. I 
found the report by engineer F compelling and, taken together with the statements from 
various other commentators, including several bike shops and senior members of staff at 
Company A, I believed the weight of evidence supported the view that the damage to Mr Cs 
bike would impair its function or performance.
Red Sands engineer still didnt agree. In summary, they said oil canning can lead to 
buckling as noted by engineer F, but it doesnt occur in tubular bike frames. They also 
reiterated points theyd made about the elongation at break (how far the material can 
stretch before breaking). And noted that a big tell in regard to a crack of future fatigue lines 
are stretch marks that permeate out from the centre of the depression. 
In response, engineer F said there were fundamental misunderstandings in the engineers 
report. He challenged some of the technical aspects in that report including the calculation of 
the elongation at break and said oil canning does occur in tubular structures, such as 
bicycle frames. He said the cracks in the top tube appear precisely where hed expect to see 
them. And noted that the stretch marks mentioned by the engineer could clearly be seen.  
Theres clearly a difference of opinion between the two engineers involved in this case. Both have provided sound reasons for reaching the conclusions they have and its difficult to 
favour one over the other. But, on balance, I remain persuaded by engineer Fs conclusions 
because they are supported by the other commentators involved in this case. Some of those 
commentators have inspected the bike in question, some havent. But taken together their 
views are consistent and persuasive, all of them united in saying it wouldnt be safe to ride 
the bike in light of the damage thats been sustained.
Having carefully considered all the evidence in this case, Im satisfied that, on balance, the 
damage to Mr Cs bike would impair its function or performance. And so I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for Red Sands to rely on that section of Mr Cs policy to decline his claim.      
Fraud
In my provisional decisions I noted that Red Sands engineer had questioned how Mr C had 
damaged his bike. They didnt believe the damage was caused by a farm gate and thought it 
more likely to have been self-inflicted by Mr C. I said that if Red Sands wanted to pursue 
these allegations, it would need to provide evidence that showed it was more likely than not 
that Mr C had made a fraudulent claim. 
In response to my second provisional decision, Red Sands said it now wanted to rely on the 
fraud term in its policy, and specifically the terms Ive set out above. It didnt provide any 
evidence to support its contention that the initial damage was self-inflicted. Rather, it focused 
on the additional damage that it said wasnt present at the time of the initial inspection and 
so must have been caused since. As I understand it, Red Sands is referring in particular to 
the crack in the gouge on the top tube identified by engineer F. And its engineers contention 
that this was most likely caused by a screwdriver being hit with a hammer. 
Our investigator referred to the case of Versloot and I too believe that is relevant here. This 
case outlined the important difference between a fraudulent claim and a justified claim 
supported by lies that dont make a real difference. So, if a claimant is dishonest while 
claiming for something they would have been entitled to anyway  based on the true facts  
this isnt enough to decline a claim. This is because the lie isnt considered fraud.
Applying that ruling to Mr Cs complaint, Red Sands believe the lie he told was that he was 
claiming the crack in the gouge in the top tube was caused in the initial accident, when it was 
actually self-inflicted by Mr C after its assessment of the damage. So, I need to decide if the 
lie meant the amount he could claim was exaggerated, or whether that lie made the claim 
valid when it would otherwise have been declined.
I dont think the additional damage Red Sands are alleging would exaggerate the value of 
the claim. From the evidence Ive seen, there was no realistic prospect of repairing the bike 
frame so the value of the claim was always likely to be the same  a full replacement  
regardless of whether a lie was told.
Did the lie make the claim valid when it would otherwise have been declined? I dont think 
so. The alleged lie being told only came to light when engineer F inspected Mr Cs bike. He 
had already produced a report before that inspection and then added to it once hed actually 
seen the bike. As Ive said above, the evidence in this case is finely balanced. But engineer 
Fs comment about the crack in the top tube was only one part of his report and, to my mind, 
not sufficiently significant on its own to cause the declined claim to become a valid one. In 
my view, the claim should have been upheld without engineer Fs comment about the crack 
in the gouge on the top tube.
So, I think the Versloot judgement can be applied here. And even if the additional damage 
was self-inflicted after the claim was made, there was no benefit to Mr C because he had a valid claim anyway. So, I dont think its fair for Red Sands to rely on the fraud clause in 
Mr Cs policy to decline his claim. 
Missing items
Mr C has been consistent in his story about the missing items. And he was specific in terms 
of the make and model of the pedals and maxles he said were missing. Red Sands was 
certain the pedals and maxles had been returned but agreed to provide replacements as a 
gesture of goodwill. But, according to Mr C, the replacement pedals werent the same as 
those that had gone missing. He said the pedals were cheap, while the rear maxle didnt fit 
his bike and the front maxle was actually the original one hed sent to Red Sands. 
Having considered the evidence, including the correspondence between Mr C and Red 
Sands, I think its more likely than not that these parts went missing either in the workshop or 
during the process of couriering the bike to and from the engineer. And, on balance, Im also 
persuaded the pedals and rear maxle Mr C received from Red Sands werent of the same 
quality as the ones hed sent to them. Mr C initially thought he was missing about £100 worth 
of parts and while the cost of new pedals and maxles of the type Mr C says he lost appear to 
range from about £30 to £150, I think it would be fair for Red Sands to pay Mr C £100 to 
cover the cost of replacing those parts (noting that he now has the front maxle). 
Putting things right
Mr Cs policy says that Red Sands will pay the cost of repairing or replacing his bike if its 
damaged. It goes on to say that it wont pay any more than the insured value detailed in his 
schedule. The insured value of Mr Cs bike is £2,300. In light of my findings above, I think 
Red Sands should pay to replace Mr Cs bike, less any excess set out in the terms and 
conditions of his policy. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think repairing Mr Cs bike is a 
realistic option. 
Red Sands has said that if the claim is allowed, it would favour replacing the frame rather 
than the full bicycle. But I cant see that option in the terms and conditions of Mr Cs 
insurance policy. That only refers to repair or replacement of the bicycle. So, I think it should 
pay the full value of Mr Cs bike, less any excess. 
Mr Cs policy says Red Sands has the right to take possession of any part, or the entire 
bicycle, prior to settlement of a claim for loss or damage. If Red Sands wants to take 
possession of the damaged bike, it should tell Mr C within two weeks of this decision. And 
pay for its packaging and transportation.
I think Red Sands should also reimburse Mr C for the cost of the missing items. I dont think 
it would be fair for Mr C to also keep the pedals and rear maxle that Red Sands sent him as 
a gesture of goodwill. So, he should return those to Red Sands. On receipt of those items, 
Red Sands should then pay Mr C £100, plus the cost Mr C incurs in returning the pedals and 
rear maxle.
Mr C thinks Red Sands should pay him compensation amounting to £1,896 for the losses 
hes incurred in pursuing his complaint. That figure includes the cost of damage reports he 
got from bike shops, plus the time they spent liaising with Company A. It also includes the 
cost of insuring the bike frame against theft. But the majority of this amount was to reimburse 
Mr C for the days he needed to take off work and fuel costs incurred taking his bike for 
inspections. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Red Sands 
to pay him that amount. When we look at making awards for compensation, we look at the impact a businesss mistake has had on the complainant. I recognise this complaint has 
taken up a lot of Mr Cs time and I accept hes taken time out of work to deal with these 
matters. Hes also incurred fuel costs taking his bike for inspections. But, as Ive said, this 
case was finely balanced. I cant say Red Sands made a mistake when it first declined 
Mr Cs claim, or subsequently when it maintained its decision after he provided further 
evidence in support of his claim. It was relying on a report from its engineer that was clear 
and persuasive. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Red Sands to reimburse Mr C for 
costs he incurred providing that further evidence, or for the insurance he chose to take out 
during that period.
It was engineer Fs report that was instrumental in reaching my decision. I think it would be 
fair to ask Red Sands to reimburse Mr C for the cost of that report. But engineer F provided 
his services free of charge. The other reports Mr C paid for were also influential in reaching 
my decision and I think it would be fair for Red Sands to reimburse him for those costs. Mr C 
has provided evidence that he paid a total of £125 for those reports. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I uphold the complaint and Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should:
settle Mr Cs claim in full, less the policy excess, in line with the terms and conditions 
of his policy;
notify Mr C within two weeks of this decision if it wants to take possession of the 
damaged bicycle;
pay Mr C £100 on receipt of the pedals and rear maxle, so he can replace the items 
that have gone missing, plus the cost he incurs in returning those items; and  
pay Mr C £125 to reimburse him for the cost of obtaining damage reports from three 
bike retailers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman