DRN-2258778
The complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy. Its
been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the sale. For
simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened
Ms W took out a store card in 1997. A few months later a PPI policy in her favour 
commenced. The policy covered risks in addition to accident, sickness and unemployment, 
but I havent considered these other benefits as part of my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Ms W disagreed, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Ms W says that she took out the policy in a meeting, at the same time as taking out a store 
card. She says that she took the card in order to spread out the cost of some car repairs. 
And that the assistant at the time told her that taking the policy would help her secure the 
card. But AXA says that the policy was taken out over the phone and commenced almost 
four and half months after the store card was taken. Because of the time that has passed 
AXA no longer has a detailed record of how the card and PPI were sold. But I dont think that 
it would be fair and reasonable to rely solely on Ms Ws recollection. On balance, because of 
the time difference between taking the card and the insurance starting, I think it is most likely 
that Ms W took out the card at the time the repairs were done. And that she subsequently 
took out the PPI by phone. This means that Ms W would have known that the policy was 
optional as shed already secured the credit without it. Because the sales took place over 20 
years ago I can understand why Ms W may no longer remember this.
Because of the time that has passed, Im not sure that we have a copy of the actual policy 
terms that applied to Ms Ws store card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same 
insurers that we do have, that were in use at the same brand stores, nearest to the time of 
the sale. 
AXA says it didnt advise Ms W to take the policy, so it would have left it up to her to make
the decision whether she wanted it or not, in the light of her circumstances. But Ms W says 
AXA did advise her. If this was the case, AXA had to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for her needs. I dont know what, if any, steps AXA took. But, in any 
event, I find the PPI was suitable for Ms W. Ive reached this conclusion by considering the 
terms and conditions of the policy referred to above, and what we know about Ms Ws 
circumstances at the time. Im satisfied that:
Ms W has told us that, because she had a pre-existing medical condition, (the 
condition), it made her ineligible for the policy. But, based on the policy terms Ive 
referred to above, the fact that she had the condition only meant that the policy wouldnt 
have paid out for any time she took off work because of it. Not that she wasnt eligible for 
the policy at all. And Ive not seen anything else in Ms Ws circumstances that were likely 
to have this latter effect;
Ms W has told us that she had had the condition since birth. But had never had time off 
work because of it. So I dont think the fact that it was likely the policy wouldnt have 
covered any time she had off work because of the condition, made it unsuitable for her: 
And I havent seen anything else in Ms Ws circumstances that made it likely she would 
have been affected by any of the PPIs other main restrictions and limitations.;
Ms W has told us that she was entitled to six months full and six months half sick pay 
from her employer. And that she also was entitled to a redundancy package. But she has 
also explained that she didnt have any savings or other insurance to help her make her 
monthly store card repayments. However, following a successful claim, the PPI would 
have likely paid 15% of her store credit account balance a month. These payments 
would have been likely to have been paid until she was able to return to work or until the 
balance had been paid off, whichever occurred first. And would have been in addition to 
anything she did in fact get from her employment - leaving such work benefits available 
to meet her other expenses while she was unable to work. So I think that the insurance 
could have been of use to Ms W;
The premiums were likely to have been no more than one pound a month for each £100
outstanding on her account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms W couldnt
afford this. In any event, had she later felt that she no longer wanted the PPI or that it
was unaffordable for her, Ms W could have cancelled it at any time without further cost,
as it was paid for monthly;
Its possible that AXA didnt tell Ms W everything she needed to know about the PPI so that
she could make an informed decision whether she wanted it or not. But, from what Ive
concluded above, it seems that she wanted this sort of cover and that it was suitable for her. 
So I dont think that Ms W would have made a different decision and not taken the PPI had 
she been given clearer information. This means that I find that Ms W hasnt lost out because 
of anything that AXA may have done wrong during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that 
I require AXA to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman