DRN-1438019
 
The complaint
Ms R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) provided poor service 
when replacing her doors and window after an attempted break in. 
What happened 
Ms R has a home insurance policy with RSA. In April 2019 there was an attempted break in 
at her house which left damage to her French patio doors and a window. She made a claim 
on the policy.
RSA accepted the claim and arranged for a fitter to attend to fit replacement windows and 
doors. The first available appointment was a month after the incident. 
Before the fitter attended RSAs agent contacted Ms R to let her know that the original patio 
door style was no longer available, so there would be a small difference in the new doors 
and windows to the old one. They said the bevel would be slightly different as well as the 
trickle vent and the ip sill. But they said the differences wouldnt be noticeable. Ms R was 
sent a brochure to view the new styles and agreed to go ahead with the fitting. 
The fitters attended at the end of May. When Ms R saw the replacement windows and doors 
she wasnt happy as she said the differences were much greater than expected. As there 
was a matching window on the other side of the patio doors that wasnt being replaced, the 
mismatch would have been more apparent so she didnt want the replacement windows to 
be installed.
She contacted RSA and asked that the other window was also replaced so that they all 
matched. It said they would need to check this with the underwriters and it would depend on 
the level of cover Ms R had. 
The fitters said they would come back another day and fit all three units as their manager 
had given them authorisation to do so. They said their manager would call back to arrange 
this.
Ms R didnt hear back from the manager so called RSA. It said as Ms R didnt have matching 
items cover included in her policy, the replacement of the undamaged window wouldnt be 
covered. However it offered to cash settle for the doors and damaged window at around 
£2,700.
Ms R wasnt happy with this amount. She said it wasnt sufficient to replace the doors and 
window. Further she was unhappy with the service she had received as she felt RSA and its 
agents had lied to her on a number of occasions. She made a complaint. 
RSA responded and after requesting she provide a quote for the replacement of both 
windows and doors, it agreed to cash settle for the replacement of all three items. 
It increased its cash settlement to around £3,500 based on how much it would cost it through 
its own suppliers.Ms R wasnt happy with this as the quote she had provided was much higher. She also said 
the poor service had caused her distress and inconvenience and RSA had taken a long time 
to acknowledge and deal with her complaint. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and thought the cash settlement amount offered 
by RSA was fair. Further he said that although the service had been poor at times, the fact 
RSA had agreed to cover the undamaged window made up for this. So he didnt recommend 
any further compensation.
Ms R accepted the cash settlement and asked RSA to pay the amount. However she said 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service provided by RSA had caused her 
significant distress and inconvenience so felt she should be entitled to compensation. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has now accepted the cash settlement offered by RSA. So the only issue left for me to 
consider is whether RSA should provide compensation to make up for distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ms R says that RSA and its agents mislead her about how different the replacement door 
and windows were from the original. And she said this has delayed the claim while the 
matter was resolved. 
From the correspondence provided, and Ms Rs accounts of conversations with RSAs 
contractors, I agree that it seems the differences between the old and new windows and 
doors were not described accurately. The differences described by RSAs agents were minor 
and not obviously noticeable. Whereas the pictures provided show that the new window and 
doors are different in their general style to the originals. As one of the side windows was 
undamaged by the incident, and therefore wouldnt be replaced, I agree that it was important 
that the replacements were a close match. Or Ms R was made aware that they wouldnt be 
so she could make a decision about a suitable settlement. 
Although I can see a brochure was provided  the images arent clear as they are provided 
in different settings and colours, so I dont think this would make the difference obvious. 
I have also considered the impact this inaccurate information has had on Ms R, in order to 
decide what RSA should do to put things right. It would have been distressing for her to wait 
a month for a fitting of the replacement doors to find that the replacements werent suitable. 
Further the fact that the fitters had to leave without carrying out the work, and RSA 
reconsidered the settlement because of this, meant the claim went on for longer than it 
would have done otherwise. This would have increased the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms R.
Further I can see that there have been a number of occasions where RSA and its agents 
have taken a number of days to acknowledge or respond to Ms Rs emails. And call backs 
have been promised that werent promptly returned. So overall I agree that the level of 
service provided by RSA has been below what I would expect. And RSA has caused 
avoidable delays to the claim.
However RSA has now cash settled the claim and included the undamaged window in this 
settlement. This wasnt covered by the policy, so it has agreed this as a gesture of goodwill. I agree that this was the right thing for it to do in the circumstances. Particularly given the poor 
service I have outlined. 
The difference between the settlement without the undamaged window and with it included 
is around £800. In a situation such as this, we would normally recommend that the insurer 
meets half of the cost of a matching item. So RSA has already paid around £400 extra than 
we would require. This is about the amount I would consider reasonable to compensate for 
the additional distress and inconvenience it has caused. I therefore think it has already done 
enough to put things right. 
So although I agreed RSA has provided some poor service and caused avoidable delays, I 
think it has already done enough to compensate Ms R and resolve the claim. For this reason 
I wont ask RSA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman