DRN-3458329
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc allowed the late Mrs T to carry out 
gambling transactions on her account which they should have identified and prevented. The 
estate of Mrs T wants the gambling transactions, and any associated charges, refunded.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr J, who acts on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs T. The 
facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of the 
key points. 
The late Mrs T and Mr J held a current account with Santander, which was opened in 1994. 
On the passing of the late Mrs T, Mr J reviewed paperwork and contacted Santander, 
explaining he was unaware the current account had been set up in joint names. Mr J also 
raised the following concerns:
The late Mrs T only received £675 a month from her pension, so the other credits to 
the account shouldve prompted Santander to take action. 
The account had excessive gambling transactions. Santander shouldve realised the 
late Mrs T had a problem and placed a block on her account. 
Santander reviewed the complaint, and explained:
Credits to the account were regularly received, some of which were from another 
account Mr J and the late Mrs T held. There was no reason for these credits to be 
flagged as unusual.  
The numerous gambling transactions took place when the account was operating 
within its means and the late Mrs T had the necessary funds available. When the 
account was overdrawn, it was always promptly brought back into credit. 
The late Mrs T didnt inform Santander of any issues she had with gambling and 
Santander wasnt required to block such activity. 
As part of its review Santander cleared the remaining charges on the account, which left it 
with a credit balance. Mr J has since closed the account. 
Mr J remained unhappy with Santanders review and still believed it shouldve done more 
when managing the account. Mr J referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint and found that Santander had acted fairly when 
managing the account, and it didnt need to compensate the estate of Mrs T.  
Mr J remained unhappy, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must clarify that my decision will focus on the impact the issues have had on the 
late Mrs T and now the estate of Mrs T. This means the impact on Mr J, who brings the 
complaint is not within my remit. I will also not be commenting on the opening of the account, 
as this has been dealt with separately. 
However, I must acknowledge the impact the circumstances have on Mr J, who represents 
the estate of Mrs T. I appreciate this has been a difficult and upsetting time, and Im sorry to 
hear of the situation Mr J has been in and the effect on his finances. But, in deciding this 
complaint, I have to focus on the impact on the eligible complainant  which here is the late 
Mrs T and her estate. 
While Ive considered all that Mr J has told us and sent us about this situation  I have to 
acknowledge that the late Mrs T cant provide answers to questions here or any testimony 
herself. This limits how much I can know about the underlying situation here. So Ive based 
my decision on what information I do have. Based on this, I dont think Santander has acted 
unfairly and that it should compensate the estate of Mrs T. Ill explain why. 
Account activity
Mr J says Santander shouldve questioned the credits into the late Mrs Ts account and 
asked questions around the source of the funds. He says Santander made no effort to verify 
the transactions on the account and it failed to meet basic regulatory requirements. In 
particular it shouldve been aware the late Mrs T only received a pension of £675 a month so 
the other credits to the account shouldve been questioned to ascertain their source. 
Its not in dispute that Santander had a general obligation to monitor the account. And just 
like many other banks, Santander will use various tools and technology to spot signs of 
unusual activity. But that has to be balanced against the fact that customers will use 
accounts differently and whats unusual for one person may not be unusual for another.
So Ive looked at the account activity and whether the frequency, source and type of 
transactions should have reasonably triggered an alert for Santander in the individual 
circumstances here. From what I can see, and as Santander has also highlighted, a vast 
majority of the credits into the account came from a recognised source  another of the late 
Mrs T and Mr Js accounts. The reference for a regular credit was also utilities. I can also 
see the account was used for occasional general spending, and these transactions were for 
generally small amounts. The transactions Ive looked at begin from 2011 and I havent seen 
anything within them that would necessarily have triggered an alert. 
Santander might take action if it suspects fraudulent or unusual activity. But, for the reasons 
Ive already set out, I dont think Santander had any reason to think that was the case here. 
Santander might decide to close an account if, for instance, it thinks its being run in a way 
that breaks a legal requirement. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think there was any 
reason for Santander to think that was the case either. 
So, although Ive thought carefully about Mr Js comments, I dont agree that Santander 
failed to effectively monitor the account. 
Gambling transactions 
There is a general expectation on financial businesses to support customers who may be 
experiencing financial difficulty or who are classed as vulnerable. But thats largely 
dependent on what the business knows about the customers circumstances. Looking at the account transactions it is clear that the late Mrs T was using the account to 
fund gambling and she was doing so quite frequently too. Santander says the late Mrs T did 
not get in touch with it at any point about the gambling on the account or to say she was 
struggling with her finances. So Ive had to consider whether Santander should have been 
aware there may have been a problem here for any other reason. 
Santander has said in its submissions that the account activity wasnt unusual. Looking at 
the statements I can see there were numerous transactions of the same value  usually 
£100 - to gambling sites. There were also periods when the activity increased significantly 
and would then return to previous levels. For example, Mrs T would go from spending £800 
in a day on transactions to almost £1,500  doubling the amount she was spending on 
gambling. And there are other instances where the amount almost triples in value, before 
reducing again. It is clear Mrs T wasnt managing this account like a standard current 
account with the general transactions you would expect to see. I think within the context of 
this account there were instances that shouldve been flagged by Santander as unusual and 
it ought to have been aware Mrs T was vulnerable to compulsive spending. 
Ive thought about whether, if Santander did intervene here and ask Mrs T about this  what 
would have likely happened. But even if it had done this, its important to note that the debit 
card was registered for the late Mrs T, and any queries wouldve been directed to her. Even 
if support had been offered to the late Mrs T in respect of the gambling on the account, it is 
not possible to know the effect, if any, this wouldve had on her behaviour. I realise that Mr J 
feels strongly that Mr J should have intervened here to prevent the spending and has told us 
that Mrs T was addicted to gambling. But I cant know with any certainty what would have 
happened if Santander intervened here. On that basis, its difficult for me to fairly hold 
Santander liable for the transactions here.
It is also important to recognise that Santander since 2020 has chosen to take pro-active 
steps to provide gambling related support for customers who it considered at risk of financial 
harm. This approach wouldnt have been in place when the late Mrs T was using the 
account. Taking this all into consideration, I find Santander to have acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.  
I know this will not be the outcome Mr J was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Santander to compensate the estate of Mrs T. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman