DRN-1705098
The complaint
Mr L complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt handle his 
scooters repair properly when he claimed under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had an accident in which his scooter was damaged. LV had their approved repairers 
(who Ill call LVs garage) repair it. But Mr L said that their repairs were substandard, and 
that they had done more repair work than was necessary and didnt do all the agreed work. 
This included that when theyd resprayed it, they hadnt colour matched the paint properly, 
so it had several different shades of the same colour. He said that his scooter was a limited 
edition and so was rare, and he felt this reduced its value. 
LVs garage agreed to rectify the issues. They also agreed that the colour did not match 
completely, but they said that this was because Mr L had already had parts of it resprayed 
before the accident. They said it was already several different shades, and so it wasnt 
possible to match to just one of them and so their garage had colour matched to the shade 
of the largest part. Mr L didnt dispute that hed had some parts resprayed beforehand, but 
he felt that an overall colour match should still be achievable.   
The garage agreed to respray in the colour shade agreed with Mr L. In addition, they agreed 
to spray parts of the scooter that hadnt been damaged in the accident, one for free and one 
for him paying them £60 plus VAT. But afterwards Mr L said the colour still didnt match. He 
wanted them to pay for it to be fully resprayed at what he said was a more experienced 
garage whod confirmed that colour match was achievable. This was subject to plastic parts 
being a shade off, but that wasnt the issue in this case. 
LV felt theyd been reasonable and that their garage had resprayed the scooter to the best of 
their ability and to a reasonable standard. And LVs engineer thought there was, after their 
repair, less difference in colour than there been before the repair. So they felt that theyd put 
Mr L back in same position as before the accident, or even better. So they wouldnt do any 
more. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and that LV hadnt 
repaired the scooter to an acceptable standard. She recommended that LV should pay for 
Mr L to have his scooter completely resprayed at the provider of his choice, and that Mr L 
should pay LV the £60 plus VAT as he had agreed. LV didnt agree and so the complaint has 
just been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a scooter could be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Mr L and LV both agree that the scooter colour shades do not match. LV s engineer says 
that this is Mr Ls fault because of the scooters pre-accident condition, and theyve sent 
before and after photos which they say support this. These include photos of areas of the 
scooter that they say they didnt work on, yet which show pre-existing colour differences. Mr 
L has also sent photos which he says show the lack of colour match and he says that failure 
is due to their garages substandard work.  He has shown us a letter from a garage body 
shop who Mr L says are experienced in respraying his scooters make and model and who 
say a colour match is achievable as above. I dont find it possible to see from any of the 
photos the claimed colour shade differences, but thats not my role and, in any event, theres 
no dispute that the shades dont match or that Mr L had resprayed parts of his scooter 
previously. 
I accept that LV did consider Mr Ls concerns, and to resolve the issue they did respray his 
scooter including additional parts, one for free and one that he agreed to pay for. And think 
that was reasonable. Mr L did agree to pay the £60 plus VAT but said he hadnt done so 
because he hadnt known LVs garage had done it and they hadnt invoiced him for it. He 
has not said that he doesnt want to pay this, though it could be inferred that he didnt think 
that he should have to as he still wasnt happy with the garages work. Nevertheless, as that 
was for work that strictly LV were not required to do, I think that Mr L should honour his 
agreement with Mr L and pay LV for that. 
However I agree with the investigator that its reasonable for a scooter after repair to be the 
same colour shade all over, and as Mr Ls provider has confirmed that this is achievable, I 
dont think its enough for LV to say that their garages work is acceptable. I still think that 
they havent done enough to fix the matter and so I think that they should pay for a complete 
respray of Mr Ls scooter by a provider of his own choice. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay for Mr L to have his scooter fully resprayed by a provider of his choice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020. 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman