DRN-3862992
The complaint
Mr H complains about the amount offered in settlement by West Bay Insurance Plc when he 
made a claim on a motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy about the write-off category 
assigned by West Bay and delays to the claim.
What happened
Mr H insured a car with West Bay. He was involved in an accident and claimed on the policy. 
West Bay accepted the claim and concluded that Mr Hs car should be declared a Category 
B write-off (meaning that the car should be destroyed due to the damage). It offered £9,000 
in settlement of the claim.
Mr H complained to West Bay. He disagreed that the damage to the car was so severe as to 
require it to be destroyed. He also said the value of the car was significantly more than had 
been offered and that there had been unreasonable delays and a lack of communication 
from West Bay during the claim.
In West Bays response to the complaint, it agreed that there had been avoidable delays 
during the claim and paid £200 compensation for this. It maintained that £9,000 was a fair 
offer in settlement of the claim and the damage meant the car should be destroyed.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought West Bays response to 
the complaint had been fair. He considered the offer to be reasonable and the categorisation 
was in line with an engineers opinion.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering whether West Bay acted reasonably when it said that Mr Hs car 
should be destroyed. Mr Hs position is that the car can be repaired and that the damage 
isnt so serious as to mean the car should be destroyed.
When saying a vehicle should be written off, insurers use a number of categories to indicate 
the reason for this. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has a Code of Practice which 
gives details of these categories. 
West Bay has declared Mr Hs car a Category B write-off. This is defined in the Code of 
Practice as having been inspected and declared unsuitable or beyond repair. Where this is 
the case, the vehicle identification number, bodyshell, frame and chassis can never be used 
again, with the structural framework being crushed. 
Mr H says doing this with his car isnt reasonable or necessary because the damage caused 
isnt severe enough as to require all the structural framework to be crushed. He specifically 
references the make and model of the car and that its common and possible for elements of 
the bodyshell and framework to be replaced.
Ive seen photographs of the damage to Mr Hs car, and have also had sight of the report 
prepared by the engineer appointed to assess the damage by West Bay. Im not qualified to 
comment on whether the car could be safely repaired, but accept the engineer is able to 
make such an assessment. Their view was that the nature and extent of the damage meant 
the car was unsuitable or beyond repair, and so the car should be declared a Category B 
write-off. 
I know how strongly Mr H disagrees with that assessment. Hes provided a number of 
quotations giving estimates for repairs to the car, and an explanation of why the way the car 
is constructed, and the availability of parts, means the repairs could be carried out. I havent 
been provided with any report which suggests the engineers assessment is incorrect. The 
only suggestion the vehicle could be repaired from an engineer is from someone who had 
carried out work to Mr Hs car before the accident. I dont think the content of what theyve 
said is enough for me to disregard the report provided to West Bay. Even though its been 
suggested repairs could be done, this doesnt mean the engineer has made an 
unreasonable conclusion. Im not persuaded I should disregard the engineers assessment 
or conclude that the car has been incorrectly categorised. 
West Bay has offered £9,000 to settle the claim. Mr Hs policy says The most we will pay 
will be the market value of the insured vehicle just before the loss or damage. The market 
value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle with another of the same make, 
specification (for example, the level of equipment found in your vehicle), model, age, mileage 
and condition as your vehicle was just before the loss or damage you are claiming for.
Establishing the market values for cars isnt an exact science. Mr Hs car is over 40 years old 
and so the use of the standard valuation tools we normally expect insurers to refer to when 
assessing the market value are of limited benefit  simply because the tools dont give 
valuations for cars of that age. West Bays offer was based on the engineers assessment, 
the photographs of the damaged car and adverts for similar cars. The advertised prices were 
between £5,800 and £9,995. Normally we dont consider adverts alone to be indicative of the 
market value of a car, but in the absence of values from tools, then wed think its acceptable 
for an insurer to rely on these. The offer of £9,000 is within the range of the advertised 
prices.
As part of our investigation into the complaint, weve been able to use a specialist valuation 
tool to reach an estimate for the market value. This said that if the car was in a fair condition, 
its market value would be around £4,000, while if it was in good condition it would be worth 
around £9,000. Based on the photographs of the car I think it would be reasonable to say 
that the car would be in good or fair condition.
On balance, I think West Bays offer of £9,000 to settle the claim was reasonable. I know Mr 
H thinks the car was worth significantly more but based on the adverts and the valuations 
weve obtained, I dont think I can fairly ask West Bay to increase the settlement.
It's been agreed that there were delays during the claim. After West Bay made an initial offer 
to settle the claim, Mr H provided further information to support that his car was worth more 
than being offered (in light of that information, West Bay made its final offer of £9,000 which 
Ive addressed above). Its accepted that on receipt of this information, there was no 
communication or meaningful progress of the claim for a period of two weeks. 
So its accepted that there was an avoidable delay to the claim, and Mr H would have been 
unaware of what was happening. I this would have caused Mr H inconvenience by having to 
chase West Bay to progress. I know Mr H has been deeply affected by the accident, as he was seriously injured in it. The 
avoidable delays to the claim would have caused him additional distress, even though the 
delays were for a relatively short period of time. 
So I do think it was reasonable for West Bay to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H. However, Im satisfied that the £200 it offered was in line 
with what Id expect it to pay in these circumstances. I dont believe any further 
compensation payment is appropriate.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require West Bay Insurance Plc to 
do any more to resolve this matter,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman