DRN-3081677
The complaint
Mr B complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) provided an 
unsatisfactory service that led him to cancel his finance agreement leaving him out of 
pocket. He asks to be reimbursed for expenses and compensated for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused.
What happened
On 27 May 2021, Mr B entered into a Hire Purchase Agreement for a six-month-old car. Mr 
B says after entering into the agreement he was informed the car would be delivered without 
a spare key or log book. He contacted VWFS and said he would cancel the finance 
agreement if the spare key wasnt provided.
When Mr B saw the finance, agreement was active, but he didnt have the spare key, he 
cancelled the agreement and didnt collect the car, but raised a complaint with VWFS. He 
said he was very unhappy with the service and that a spare key hadnt been provided with a 
six-month-old car.
On 17 June 2021, VWFS issued its final response. It upheld Mr Bs complaint. It apologised 
for the delay in providing the spare key, explaining the car had come from another location 
and the spare key wasnt with the car but had been located and would be provided at a later 
date. It acknowledged it had provided poor service and following Mr Bs instruction had 
cancelled the agreement and offered £100 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Dissatisfied, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He asked to be compensated for the 
additional travel costs and the inconvenience caused due to not having a car to get to and 
from work
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He found that 
VWFS had acknowledged there was a delay, but it was providing the spare key. He didnt 
find the spare key prevented Mr B from driving or using the car, so ultimately it was his 
choice to cancel the agreement. He found VWFS had responded to Mr Bs complaint in a 
timely manner and so didnt feel it was fair or reasonable to ask it to pay Mr Bs additional 
travel costs or take any further action.
Mr B disagreed. He feels VWFS failed to meet its responsibilities of the regulated finance 
agreement and in doing so caused him a financial loss. He feels the dealership wasnt 
honest and it should have provided a nearly new car with two spare keys. The two weeks to 
a month it took to remove the finance agreement from his credit file also meant he wouldnt 
have been able to apply for further credit due to affordability. He asks for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr B, Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong, we would look to see if the 
business has been fair and reasonable in putting things right for the consumer.
I appreciate when purchasing a nearly new car, as in this case, one would expect everything 
to be in order. So, I can understand Mr Bs frustration at not having a spare key for all of the 
reasons he has given. In this case, VWFS has apologised and explained it wasnt that there 
isnt a spare key but because the car was at a different location it arrived without it. VWFS 
said it would be provided but unfortunately not on delivery.
I wasnt present at the discussions about the spare key and it seems there was some 
miscommunication which led to Mr B feeling he wasnt going to get a spare key at all. But, 
from what Ive seen that doesnt seem to be the case. It wasnt available on delivery but 
would arrive later. Whilst that must have been disappointing, it didnt prevent Mr B from 
collecting or driving the car, as the main key was available, and the spare key was to arrive 
later. It was Mr Bs choice not to take collection and to cancel the agreement, which then left 
him without a car. So, I cant hold VWFS responsible for that decision or ask it to pay for any 
associated travel costs Mr B may have incurred.
In terms of the implication of a live finance agreement on Mr Bs credit file. Ive looked at the 
reporting timescale to the credit agencies. When the agreement was entered into VWFS 
reported this to the relevant agencies and when he cancelled the agreement, it reported the 
cancellation. It can take up to a month for information to be removed because of the 
reporting timescales of the agencies. So as VWFS reported this in a timely manner, again I 
cant say it has acted unfairly here.
I understand Mr B feels he received poor service when he rang up to discuss this matter. I 
can see from the final response VWFS has acknowledged this and offered to pay £100 for 
the trouble and upset this matter has caused him and Im persuaded this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and so I wont be asking VWFS to so 
anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman