DRN-4471012
The complaint
Mr A complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card
(Home Retail Group) irresponsibly gave him a store card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 13 September 2021, Mr As store card was opened by Home Retail Group with an 
initial credit limit of £1,200. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2023, Mr A complained to Home Retail Group to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Home Retail Group ought to 
have made a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the 
store card for him. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr A didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr A has a separate customer service complaint ongoing with Home Retail Group. That is 
being considering under a separate reference. This complaint is solely about unaffordable 
lending on Mr As store card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr As complaint is that Home Retail Group made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Home Retail Group has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr A provided at 
the time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in 
Mr As name to assess Mr As level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Home Retail 
Group decided to agree to the credit limit of £1,200. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the sale.
The Home Retail Group told us their checks showed that Mr A did not have a poor credit 
score. Mr A has provided two credit reports that feature some information from the time of 
the sale. This supports the evidence that was available to Home Retail Group at the time of 
the lending decision. Mr As credit file was not so poor at the time of the loan application that 
Home Retail Group ought to have avoided any further lending to Mr A. Ill explain why I say 
that.
Mr As management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or 
bankruptcy. And for more than six months before the application there had been no late 
payments or arrears on any of Mr As existing accounts. There were adverse markings on 
the credit report of a more serious nature, but these were historic markings, being more than 
three years before the lending decision. 
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr A 
was affording his contemporaneous existing credit. And so, Home Retail Group were not put 
on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that Home Retail Group had at the time of the lending decision, would have led 
them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr As expenditure. 
Mr A has told us he was earning approximately £20,000 a year at that time. Mr As income 
seemed sufficient to make affordable the size of the initial credit limit and the monthly cost of 
making repayments on that amount. Considering all of the above, there was no obvious 
affordability issue that suggested that Home Retail Group should look more closely at Mr As 
finances. 
I understand that subsequently Mr As accounts did show signs of financial difficulty, but 
they are largely after this lending decision was made. I have to look at the information that 
was available to Home Retail Group at the time it made its lending decisions and not to use 
hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that Home Retail 
Group acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led 
them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr As expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Home Retail Group provided to Mr A was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman