DRN-2278890
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited initially told him his car was
a write off when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. It later said it wasnt. This
led to Mr Ts decision to arrange car hire and buy a replacement car.
What happened
Mr T made a claim to his insurer, Acromas in October 2019. Acromas initially told Mr T that
his car would be written off, but that it was possible  although unlikely  that on further
inspection it might not be.
Because Acromas said his car would be written off, this meant it didnt offer Mr T a hire car 
as this was only available if his car was repairable. Mr T needed a replacement car as he
used his car for work. So he arranged car hire at his own cost. Hed purchased a
replacement car and had paid a deposit when Acromas told him his car was in fact
repairable after all.
Acromas paid Mr T £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. And
it offered to pay Mr T the equivalent of £10 a day toward the cost he paid for car hire. But it
said it did tell Mr T that it was unlikely his car would be repairable. So Acromas said it did
manage Mr Ts expectations.
Mr T said this wasnt enough to put things right and asked us to look at his complaint. Mr T
sold the first car on a selling website. He wanted Acromas to pay him the difference in the
amount he paid for a replacement car. He also wanted Acromas to meet the hire car costs
he paid in full.
Our investigator thought Mr T should have waited until his claim was settled until he bought
a replacement car. So he thought the £75 compensation Acromas paid was fair and
reasonable. However, he said there was no dispute that Acromas had told Mr T several
times that his car would be a write off. So he thought Acromas should meet the costs Mr T
had paid for a hire car in full and pay interest on the amount from the date Mr T paid to the
date it reimbursed him.
Mr T didnt agree. He said Acromas repeatedly told him the car was a write off. He doesnt
feel Acromas has done enough to put things right. He said they repeatedly told him he
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as his car wasnt repairable. So his actions were
reasonable.
Acromas agreed to pay the difference in hire car costs.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2020. After listening to key calls, I thought 
Acromas should have been clearer about the claims process and what would happen if Mr 
Ts car was repairable. So I thought Acromas should reimburse Mr T in full for the hire car 
costs he paid and pay a total compensation award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Mr T says the £75 compensation was offered 
by Acromas, but not paid. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision, my final decision is along the same lines.
Ive listened to the key recordings of the calls Mr T made with Acromas when he reported the
incident on 28 October 2019 - and on 4 November 2019. This is the date Mr T told Acromas
hed paid a deposit for a replacement car under a lease agreement.
I can understand why Mr T might have decided to buy a replacement car before it was
confirmed that his car was a total loss. He said he needed a vehicle for work and so
arranged a hire car. And so I can understand why Mr T tried to mitigate his losses in hire car
costs by looking for a replacement car as soon as possible.
Mr Ts policy says:
If your vehicle is damaged in circumstances that give rise to a valid claim under Part
1 of the Loss or damage section of the policy, we will ask our nominated supplier to
provide you with a replacement car for the duration of the repair. The replacement
car will be provided within one working day of repairs commencing, unless you agree
an alternative date with us.
If you request a replacement car before repairs start because you believe your
vehicle is immobile, and if we agree with you, we will arrange for a replacement car
to be provided within one working day of our agreement.
In the first call, Acromas said it was very unlikely that Mr Ts car would be repairable as it
had been left overnight in an area that was then cordoned off due to flood. But until the
salvage agent provided a report after inspection of the car, Acromas couldnt confirm this. I
think the agent was clear.
However, I think Acromass agent  in the second call on 28 October 2019  wasnt clear
enough. Mr T called to say he was really concerned as he was going to have to pay for a
courtesy car for work and wanted to know what the plans were from here. There are key
comments during this call which I think show that Mr T was given the impression the
inspection would be a formality. However, Mr Ts car hadnt been inspected and so it wasnt
known if his car had been damaged by flood to the extent that it wouldnt be repairable. 
The agent said he would speak to an engineer and put Mr T on hold. When he returned to 
the call, the agent said the engineer advised it will be a write off. Mr T asked, oh it definitely
will? The agent replied yes as we dont know the full extent(of the damage)
Mr T said that he would be looking for a new car and the agent replied yes, were going to
offer you a value. Mr T asked if there would be any question or debate that his car would be
anything other than a total loss. The agent replied, yes definitely written off. The agent said
that although the car would be inspected by the salvage agent, hed spoken to an engineer
and it was unlikely to be anything else and would be dealt with as a total loss claim. The
agent said he would send Mr T a letter confirming his car would be a total loss.When Mr T called for an update on 4 November 2019, the agent explained the total loss
claims procedure. She said that somebody will call him to offer him a pre accident value for
his car once the report was received. The agent didnt explain that the car might be
repairable until Mr T reiterated his concern that the car would definitely be written off. This
was because hed ordered a new car.
The agent then said, the water was in the footwell wasnt it and Mr T agreed. The agent
said yes, yes it will be uneconomical (to repair).
Mr T asked if Acromas had confirmation in writing. The agent concluded;
When you get that call from the total loss settlement service, obviously they will then
confirm that with you once theyre looking at the report. But we do believe based on
the information that we have so far that this is going to be the case. Its extremely
rare that they would come back and say yes, its ok to be repaired.
Mr T called Acromas on 7 November 2019 as hed been advised by the salvage agent that
his car was potentially repairable. I can understand the upset this caused Mr T as hed
committed to buying a replacement car.
I cant conclude that Acromas guaranteed that his car wouldnt be repairable before it was
inspected. But I dont think the compensation award Acromas offered is enough to reflect the
inconvenience caused by its management of Mr Ts expectations. I think it should have been
clearer about what would happen if Mr Ts car was repairable - so that he was aware that he
would be entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of repairs. And so it follows that I dont
think it was fair of Acromas to pay only its equivalent rate for hire car for the days Mr T
arranged one as it cost him more.
So I think Acromas should reimburse Mr T for the full costs he paid for a hire car until
Acromas arranged one for him. And I think Acromas should pay interest on the difference its
already paid and the balance at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mr T paid
to the date it pays him.
I think Mr T tried to mitigate his losses and needed a car to continue to work. And he looked
for clarity from Acromas  based on what it told him - to assist him in making a decision as to
whether to continue paying for a hire car or look for a replacement car. I dont think Acromas
was as clear as it could have been about the possibility that the claim wouldnt be settled as
a total loss claim. And so Mr T was put to time and inconvenience in arranging car hire, and
having to sell the repairable car.
I dont think Acromas is responsible for paying Mr T the difference in costs between buying a
replacement car and the price Mr T sold the repairable one for. But I think a fairer
compensation award to pay Mr T to reflect the distress and inconvenience Acromas caused
him is £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
pay Mr T a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. I
reimburse Mr T for the full costs he paid for car hire until Acromas arranged car 
hire for him under the claim.Acromas should pay interest on the reimbursement at 8% simple interest a year from the
date Mr T paid to the date Acromas pays him. If its already paid the £160 toward the hire car
charges, it should split the calculation of interest between the dates it reimbursed the partial
amount and the difference.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman