DRN-2896848
The complaint
Mr M complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to give him a point of sale loan to fund the purchase of a 
fractional points agreement for the use of a timeshare from a company I will call C.
The fractional ownership agreement is in the joint names of Mr and Mrs M but the loan 
agreement is in Mr Ms sole name. This means Mr M is the complainant who is eligible to 
bring a complaint to our service so Ive referred to him alone in this decision.
Mr M is represented by a firm of solicitors but to keep things simple I will refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr M said it himself.
What happened
Mr M purchased the fractional ownership in February 2012 at a cost of £10,616 plus a 
membership fee of £998. He says that he was not made fully aware of the management fees 
which were £3,826 in the period September 2013 up to and including May 2017. He says he 
wasnt given an opportunity to be satisfied if the product was suitable. Nor was he aware that 
any outstanding liability would extend beyond his death. 
Mr M says misrepresentations were made and he was treated unfairly during an aggressive 
sales pitch. Mr M says he was told that the product was an investment, which it wasnt, and 
a further aggravating factor is the supplier brokered the loan when it wasnt authorised to do 
so by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - in breach of Section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FMSA)
As a result he wants BPF to give him a refund of the total cost.
 BPF thinks it is too late, under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), for Mr M to bring claims under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). BPF also considers Mr M is 
out of time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service under our rules.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied that we can consider Mr 
Ms complaint because (in summary): -
Mr M complains that BPF failed to fulfil its obligations because he hasnt had 
satisfactory compensation for his claims;
our rules say we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than six 
years after the event complained of or (if later) three years from the date on which 
the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he 
had cause for complaint - unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as a 
result of exceptional circumstances;
when assessing and declining a claim under the CCA, BPF is exercising its rights 
and duties under a regulated credit agreement and the event complained of here is 
BPFs decision in December 2018 to decline Mr Ms claim about the product sale,
Mr M brought his complaint to us a few weeks later - within the six-year time limit set out in 
our rules so he believed we could look into it.
The investigator went on to consider the merits and said:-
under section 75 BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so if the time 
for bringing a claim against the supplier has expired under the LA, this would be the 
same for any like claim against BPF - which is something BPF could reasonably 
take into account;
Mr M raises allegations of misrepresentation, he has six years under the LA to bring 
his claim and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and contract;
misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has 
suffered damage and any damage would have occurred here when Mr M 
experienced a financial loss as a result of purchasing the product (in that, Mr M says 
the purchase caused financial loss due to the suppliers misrepresentations and he 
wouldnt have bought the product except for those misrepresentations);
this means the point of loss for Mr M was when he entered into the transaction to buy 
the product in February 2012 (and accepted the cost and any potential benefit) so Mr 
M needed to raise his section 75 claim no later than February 2018 but he didnt 
complain to BPF until June 2019;
Mr M may not have known that he could raise concerns about misrepresentation 
before that but the relevant time limit starts to run from the date of loss, which may 
fall earlier than the date he realised that something might have gone wrong;
under section 140A of the CCA a court may make an order under section 140B if it is 
determined that the relationship between the creditor and debtor arising out of the 
agreement is unfair to the debtor - only a court has the power to decide this but 
section 140A is relevant law that we need to take into consideration;
the LA applies to a section 140A claim, Mr M had six years to bring such a claim and 
he would have needed to do so no later than October 2017 but he didnt complaint to 
BPF until more than a year later meaning this claim is more than likely time barred;
The investigator thought Mr Ms claims had more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits. And, although this for the courts to decide, it wasnt unreasonable for BPF to take this 
into account. She wasnt persuaded that BPFs decision to decline Mr Ms claims was unfair 
or unreasonable in the circumstances and she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. His representatives 
have made fairly detailed submissions which Ive read carefully. I have summarised these 
below for ease of reference: -
high pressure and aggressive sales tactics were used;
Mr M was told that the product was an investment, which it wasnt, and a further 
aggravating factor is the supplier brokered the loan when it wasnt authorised to do 
so by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - in breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FMSA);
commission paid by BPF was never disclosed giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under section 140A of the CCA;
misrepresentations, that were false (and known to be false) were made with the 
intention of inducing Mr M to enter these agreements, he relied on what was said and 
experienced loss as a result, he could not have known that the misrepresentations 
were fraudulent - and what remedy was available - until he instructed his 
representatives;
the bank failed to carry out proper affordability checks:
the primary limitation period hasnt expired but, even if it had, Mr M relies on section 
32 of the LA (specifically section 32(l)(b)) to extend the limitation period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not minded to
require BPF to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence
and the wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mr M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But,
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF
says it doesnt, because Mr M is complaining about events that took place in 2008 and it was
more than six years before he brought his complaint to us.
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr M is
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A
arising out of his purchase of the product.Jurisdiction and Mr Ms section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
I find the event (as referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr M is complaining here
about is BPFs rejection of the claim that he made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is
when BPF declined his complaint in December 2018. Mr M brought this complaint to our
service not long after that and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of
Mr Ms complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.
Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mr M also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an unfair
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our
jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for the
purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in June 2008. I cant reasonably
conclude that this part of Mr Ms complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set
out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, Ive gone on to consider the
second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr M knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he
had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).
Mr Ms representatives say he first became aware that he had cause for complaint in 2018
when he sought professional advice. From the evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts
and omissions that Mr M has complained about, I think he should reasonably have known
that something might have gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or omissions
before that. But I accept this is not the same as Mr M knowing that he had cause for
complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mr M may have known that something might have gone
wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that he would have realised
that this might have made the relationship between him and BPF unfair  or that he had
grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr M would have needed to know there was a problem that
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that
Mr M knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before
2018. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction.
Merits of the complaint
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint. Mr M
brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and Im
considering whether BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in
this decision.
Our investigator says any right that Mr M had to bring these claims against BPF is probably
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I think its something that BPF could
reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mr Ms claims. I should make it clear
however, that I am not deciding here if any right that Mr M may have to bring these claims
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the supplier. In this complaint, Mr M claims that misrepresentations were made and I think
sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.
Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here
will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75
became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered.
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mr M purchased the product and took
out the finance - in February 2012. Amongst other things, this was when he paid for the 
benefits which he says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr M would have 
needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date he entered into the 
transaction to purchase the product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since 
that date before Mr M contacted BPF - in June 2019. It looks as if the period within which he 
had to bring an action under section 75 had run out by that point and I cant reasonably find 
it was wrong of BPF to decline Mr Ms section 75 claim.
I note that BPF says the relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier (d-c-s)
required under section 75 isnt present here. As Im not minded to uphold this complaint for
other reasons, I havent considered whether the necessary d-c-s relationship is present.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr M would 
have to bring an action within six years of February 2012. As he didnt do that, I think he 
brought his claim too late.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable is six years from the date the debtor-creditor
relationship ended. I gather the loan was repaid in May 2012 so, I think he would have 
needed to bring any claim under section 140A no later than May 2018.
Im satisfied that this claim wasnt raised with BPF until over a year later  in June 2019. 
Thats more than six years after the date time started running. I think any right Mr M
had to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired by that stage. And Im not
persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr M may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thoughtto his representatives reference to section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of
time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found (or could with
reasonable diligence have been discovered).
I cant see that specific allegations of this sort were put to BPF previously. But, even if I were
to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr M probably had enough information to start the
clock running in the particular circumstances not long after he purchased the product.
I say this because it looks as if Mr M used the product fairly soon after purchase. In his
statement he says he noticed that standards of accommodation, for example, werent what
he was led to expect. On balance, I find the evidence suggests that Mr M was probably
aware then that benefits he says he was told at the outset would be provided might have
been misrepresented early on. I think its more likely than not he would also have realised he
wasnt receiving the services he expected at that stage. I consider this would have been
sufficient to enable Mr M to bring his claims and Im not persuaded its unreasonable to
expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits.
Ive also considered (in this context) the submissions from Mr Ms representatives about the
payment of commission. They say any commission paid by BPF to the supplier for arranging
the loan should have been disclosed and this gives rise to an unfair relationship under
section 140.
BPF told us it has no record of how much  if any  commission was paid. But, my
understanding of the levels of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at
the relevant time) is that this wasnt high enough to mean that BPF should have realised not
telling Mr M risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair (under section 140A). If, and
its by no means certain, any commission was paid, I think its unlikely to have exceeded
10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. Im not
persuaded that BPF was obliged to disclose it. And I dont think the supplier was under a
duty to disclose it either. I cant see that the supplier was acting as agent for Mr M. I dont
think it owed him a fiduciary duty and Im satisfied it wasnt obliged to provide an impartial or
dis-interested recommendation, in these particular circumstances.
It follows Im not persuaded that section 32 assists Mr M here. However, even if Mr M was
able to rely on section 32, Im satisfied if any commission was paid it probably wasnt more
than 10%. And I think its unlikely a court would conclude that this created an unfair debtor 
creditor relationship, in any event.
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened when Mr M
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant
documentation) I think there was an obligation to give Mr M sufficient appropriate and timely
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan.
But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose - or advice was provided - that could give rise to
a claim to which this section could apply.
Was the product an unregulated credit agreement under FSMA? 
If the product was a UCIS, that could mean the credit agreement between Mr M and BPF 
(taken alongside the product it was used to finance) led to an unfair debtor/creditor 
relationship between Mr M and BPF. Although Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M is able to bring a claim under section 140A 
CCA for an unfair debtor/creditor relationship, I think it is useful to set out whether I think the 
product could amount to a UCIS. That is because it has been alleged BPF may have 
breached certain legal provisions by financing a UCIS. 
In order to be a UCIS, I think this product would have to not only fall within the definition of a 
collective investment scheme (CIS) under FSMA (section 235) but outside of the definition of 
arrangements which do not amount to a collective investment scheme set out in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) Order 2001 (the 
CIS order). 
If the Purchase Agreement qualified as a timeshare contract, it cant have given rise to a 
CIS because the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) 
Order 2001 (the 2001 CIS Order) provides in Schedule 1 (Paragraph 13) that arrangements 
dont amount to a CIS if [...] the rights or interests of the participants are rights under a 
timeshare contract [...].
Regulation 7 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations) defined a timeshare contract as a contract 
between a trader and a consumer under which the consumer, for consideration, acquires the 
right to use overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation and which has 
a duration of more than one year []. An important phrase in this definition in the context of 
this complaint is the consumer...acquires (the relevant rights to use accommodation). 
To acquire seems to me to have its normal meaning of gaining something or coming into 
possession of it. And, if the Purchase Agreement was a timeshare contract, I think it must 
have caused Mr and Mrs M to have gained or come into possession of rights to use 
overnight accommodation. 
Looking at the Purchase Agreement, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M paid for the right to use 
overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation (including accommodation 
from a pool of accommodation) under an agreement that had a duration of more than one 
year. That was a right they acquired for the first time when they bought the product in 
question. And, with that being the case, I see no reason why the Purchase Agreement 
wasnt a timeshare contract - such that it wasnt excluded from being a CIS. 
For the reasons set out, Im minded to find the product is a timeshare contract. I think it is 
therefore excluded from being a CIS which means it cant, by definition, be a UCIS.
Unaffordable lending
Mr M says it was irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan and proper credit checks were not 
carried out. I cant see that Mr M has provided much by way of further evidence about this in 
response to the view. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should have when it 
agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for [consumer] 
and they lost out as a result in order to uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr M had any affordability issues during the life of 
this loan which was repaid quite quickly. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to 
meet the loan repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the 
relevant time. So I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
ConclusionsAs the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr M
may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see
from the information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set
out) Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mr Ms
complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr M unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant
properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that this service is able to consider Mr Ms complaint and, having done 
so, I do not uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman