DRN-4234276
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made 
under their home emergency insurance policy.
Mr K and Ms K are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mr K, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In March 2023, Mr K made a claim under his home emergency policy with Aviva because 
there was a leak in his kitchen. Aviva arranged for a plumber to attend his property a couple 
of days later. The plumber advised that leak detection was needed but there was a delay in 
booking the appointment and an engineer didnt attend until a couple of weeks later. The 
engineer detected that the leak was behind the dishwasher but said he wasnt able to 
remove it. 
A couple of weeks later, Mr K arranged for a builder to remove the dishwasher and complete 
a repair. 
Mr K raised a complaint with Aviva. He was unhappy that Aviva didnt return to his property 
and says his own builder was able to pull the dishwasher out and fix the issue within half an 
hour.
Aviva apologised for the service Mr K had received. It didnt agree that the engineer had 
made an incorrect decision advising access was needed, but it said it would be happy to 
consider a paid invoice from his builder if Mr K was to provide it. It also apologised for the 
inconvenience Mr K had been caused by failed appointments and having to chase Aviva up 
and offered him £100 compensation.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the complaint. Our investigator 
thought Avivas offer to pay Mr K £100 and consider reimbursing him for the cost of repairs 
was reasonable.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the engineer told him hed be 
returning soon with another person to take out the dishwasher and fix the leak. He was later 
informed he needed to remove it himself when he talked to an agent. When he asked his 
builder, he simply pulled out the dishwasher and fixed the leak. 
Mr K said Aviva could easily have removed the dishwasher. According to the policys terms, 
it should fix a leak it can access which was the case. Avivas £100 offer was for taking too 
long to send an engineer to detect the leak. It didnt admit it had not fulfilled its responsibility.
Mr K also commented about other issues hed experienced with Avivas agents when hed 
previously made a claim relating to his boiler. He said in both cases, engineers spent less 
than ten minutes in his home and made no real attempt to fix the problem.
As Mr K disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The terms of the policy say:
Creating access
On arriving at your property, the engineer will aim to locate the source of the incident. If 
direct access is not available (for instance if there are floor tiles or floorboards, or any of your 
possessions, such as storage boxes or furniture in the way) the engineer will need to create 
access. If you want the engineer to do this, you will be asked to confirm this in writing while 
the engineer is at your property. Unless stated in any of the What is covered? sections 
below, we will not cover you for any damage that may be caused to the property, its 
contents, fixtures, fittings, floorings or sanitary ware (unless the damage is caused by our 
engineers negligence). If you do not want the engineer to create access, we will be unable 
to do the work until you have arranged access.
Avivas notes from the date the engineer visited say:
The engineer has attended the property, there is a leak behind the dish washer [sic] and 
thinks its [sic] coming from one of the connections behind. He has attempted to remove the 
dishwasher but has been integrally fitted into the kitchen units and the worktop and 
surrounding units will need to be removed to access by a kitchen fitter. We have advised the 
customer not to use the dishwasher.
Mr K says the dishwasher wasnt integrated and was easily pulled out by his own engineer. 
He also says the engineer promised to come back with someone else soon.
I havent seen evidence to show me whether or not the dishwasher was integrated. And its 
not clear from Avivas notes, if Mr K was told that he would need to arrange for a kitchen 
fitter to remove the dishwasher. 
However, Aviva has offered to consider the costs of his own builder fixing the leak if he 
provides evidence in the form of a paid invoice. I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to 
reimburse him for these costs, if Mr K provides the evidence its asked for. 
Aviva has also offered Mr K £100 for distress and inconvenience. I acknowledge what Mr K 
has said about the £100 being for the delay in sending the engineer to detect the leak, as 
well as his comments regarding his previous claim with Aviva.
However, in this complaint, I can only consider the service Mr K received in relation to this 
claim and the impact this had on him. The leak was fixed around a month after Mr K made 
his claim. And I think £100 fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience Mr K experienced as a result of Avivas poor service over this timeframe. So, Im not persuaded 
that Aviva should pay compensation above the amount its already offered.
Putting things right
Aviva should:
Reimburse Mr K for the cost of his own builder fixing the leak if he provides the 
evidence its asked for.
Pay Mr K the £100 its offered him for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to reimburse Mr K for costs he incurred 
getting the leak fixed and pay him £100 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should reimburse Mr K the cost of repairing 
the leak if he provides evidence of this and pay him £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman