DRN-3883374
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the self-invested personal pension (SIPP) she holds with 
Coutts & Company does not permit her to hold her savings in cash. And she says that 
restriction was not made sufficiently clear when she agreed to transfer her pension savings 
to the firm.
What happened
Mrs S has been assisted in making this complaint by her husband. But in this decision, for 
ease, I will refer to all communication as if it has been with, and from, Mrs S herself.
When Mrs S first complained to us, she also asked that we consider the time that had been 
taken for her pension savings to be transferred to Coutts. But that issue didnt form part of 
the complaint she initially made to the firm, and so it isnt appropriate for me to deal with it 
here. Should Mrs S still be unhappy with how the transfer was progressed, she should 
consider raising the matter as a new complaint with either Coutts, or her previous pension 
provider.
Mrs S holds pension savings with Coutts. Her pension savings were transferred to Coutts 
from another provider in April 2022 and placed into a Coutts Invest Personal Pension 
Account. That product operates on an execution only basis, and Coutts provides no advice 
to consumers about their investment decisions.
On receipt of Mrs S pension funds, Coutts invested them in an investment fund chosen by 
Mrs S as part of the application process. Shortly afterwards Mrs S told Coutts that she would 
prefer some, or potentially all, of her pension savings to be held in cash, particularly since 
she was approaching her intended retirement age. Coutts told Mrs S that would not be 
possible, and all pension savings held in the personal pension account must be invested into 
one of the offered funds.
Mrs S complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think there was 
any requirement for Coutts to offer investors a cash investment option, nor did he think it 
was something that needed to be specifically mentioned as part of the application process. 
So he didnt think Coutts had done anything wrong, or that the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs S and by Coutts. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I explained earlier, the Coutts Invest Personal Pension Account was offered to Mrs S on 
a non-advised basis. That means that Coutts didnt need to check whether the product was 
suitable for Mrs S needs or circumstances  that was essentially a decision she needed to 
make for herself. But Coutts did need to provide Mrs S with sufficient information on which 
she could base her decision.
Coutts has said that Mrs S opened the pension account via on online application process. It 
has provided us with screenshots of the information that was presented to Mrs S. As part of 
her application, the form explained to Mrs S that the amount being transferred would be sent 
from the old provider in cash, before being invested by Coutts. And Mrs S was required to 
confirm that she had read, printed and/or saved a Key Features Illustration document.
That document contained a section headed How will my Coutts Invest Personal Pension 
Account be invested?. And it provided an answer to that question that read;
You will be able to choose one of five risk-rated investment funds managed by a 
highly experienced investment team. Each fund is a diverse portfolio of different 
investment assets and has a different target investment return and corresponding 
level of risk. You will be asked to choose your investment fund when you set up your 
pension, but will be able to change your pot to another one of the five funds at any 
time.
When you make contributions or transfers to your pension the money will be invested 
automatically in your chosen fund.
The Coutts Invest Personal Pension Account didnt offer customers a free choice of 
investments that might be held as part of their pension savings. Instead, as explained in the 
key features document the account offered five different portfolios that were designed by 
Coutts. Although consumers were free to choose between those portfolios they were unable 
to influence the individual assets they held.
I think it is clear from the information Coutts provided to Mrs S that her pension savings 
would be invested on receipt of the transfer. And the nature of the product, as set out in the 
key features illustration document meant that Mrs S has no flexibility to determine what 
investments she held, except for a choice between the five different investment funds.
It is for Coutts to decide the structure and form of the products that it is willing to offer at any 
time. So I cannot reasonably conclude that it must allow a consumer to hold all, or part, of 
their pension savings in the Invest Personal Pension Account in cash. I appreciate how 
disappointing my decision will be for Mrs S, but it seems to me that Coutts made sufficient information available to her, before the account was opened, in order for her to decide 
whether the product met her needs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Coutts & Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman