DRN-4310624
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
PSFM Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to PSFM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to PSFM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. 
PSFM set out its advice in a suitability report on 16 November 2017. In this it advised Mr M 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension arrangement. 
PSFM said this would allow Mr M to achieve his objectives. Mr M accepted this advice and 
so transferred out. 
In 2022 PSFM asked an external accountancy firm to review a number of DB transfer cases 
it had given historic advice on. Mr Ms case was one of those chosen and he accepted the 
offer of an external scrutiny of his transfer case. But Mr M also referred a complaint about 
the transfer to our Service, the Financial Ombudsman Service, in June 2022. 
The company brought in by PSFM to carry out the review said the transfer advice in 2017 
wasnt suitable for Mr M. This was accepted by PSFM. However, when it then went on to 
calculate the redress owed to Mr M, it assumed hed have transferred to the BSPS2 instead 
of transferring to the personal plan. And having used the calculation guidelines from the 
regulator, PSFM said there was nothing due. So, ultimately what PSFM said was that even 
though the transfer advice had been unsuitable, Mr M wasnt actually due back any money. 
This was because the personal pension arrangement to which he had transferred had grown 
to an extent that it was effectively worth more, in monetary terms, than the DB scheme Mr M 
had been advised to leave. 
Mr M didnt accept this calculation. He said hed had numerous former steelworker 
colleagues, in very similar situations, who had received pay-outs as a result of unsuitable 
transfer advice. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. Because PSFM accepted the advice 
to transfer had been unsuitable, the investigator looked specifically into the redress issue 
and whether PSFM had undertaken the calculation correctly. And they said that because Mr 
M had clearly wanted to retire early (and more or less directly after the transfer advice had 
been provided by PSFM) then the redress calculation should assume he would have moved 
to the PPF, rather than the BSPS2, if hed been given suitable advice.
PSFM is saying that as a matter of principle it used the BSPS2 assumption for the redress, 
rather than the PPF. It says using this calculation is as per its normal approach in similar 
cases. But in any event, PSFM says that whatever calculation is used, Mr M still isnt due 
any money. On the other hand, Mr M still thinks hes due some money back by way of 
redress.
As this complaint cant be resolved informally, its therefore come to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PSFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PSFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Having considered all this, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Suitability issues
Normally when assessing the suitability of a DB pension transfer advice case Id 
comprehensively look at a number of issues. These might include, for example, whether the 
transferred pension was expected to grow by much after the transfer. It might also include 
whether the consumer needed a particular form of flexibility or whether ill health was an 
issue in their case. It might also be relevant to consider the various benefits and guarantees 
that would be lost if giving up a DB pension and transferring to a different scheme.
However, in this case I dont need to do this. This is because, as Ive said, PSFM brought in 
an external firm to examine whether its advice was suitable and it accepts now that it wasnt 
suitable. I can see that this was set out clearly in PSFMs final response letter to Mr M on 10 
October 2022 which says, as you will now be aware, it has been concluded by [the external 
company] that the advice you received to transfer from the British Steel Pension Scheme 
was unsuitable for your personal circumstances. Therefore, we have upheld this aspect of 
your complaint. 
So, having accepted that the advice was unsuitable in October 2022, it would clearly be very 
difficult for PSFM now to say that it was suitable.
However, the FRL went on to explain that it had separately written to Mr M about the redress 
due. It said this letter, provides you with information to help you understand how the 
decision which has been reached results in no redress being payable to you, despite  
reaching the conclusion that the advice provided by [us] was unsuitable. I appreciate you will 
be disappointed with this outcome, but the approach taken is in line with the FCAs 
expectation. 
So, what PSFM was saying here was that even though it now accepted the advice was 
wrong, Mr M wasnt going to receive any money by way of redress.
Was PSFM correct in saying no redress is payable?
As Ive explained earlier, PSFM used the assumption that instead of transferring away from 
his DB scheme, Mr M would have most probably decided to move to the new BSPS2 
scheme. And because the adviser was clearly wrong, they should have advised Mr M that 
BSPS2 was the much more suitable option for him.
But as our investigator explained, there are some anomalies that can occur when someone 
who is very close to taking early retirement is concerned. This can mean the PPF offers a 
better tax-free lump sum and sometimes a better annual pension than the BSPS2. In Mr Ms 
case, hed told the adviser he wanted to retire at the age of 55 which for him was only a few 
months away. The figures pertaining to the PPF in his case were indeed slightly better and 
so the adviser should have pointed this out and advised him that moving to the PPF  in his 
case  was the more suitable option.
PSFM has shown us the calculations that make up its no loss offer to Mr M and these were 
based on him transferring to the BSPS2 instead. But this isnt the calculation that should be 
used. Because of what Ive said above, the assumption and comparison that needs to be 
used here is that Mr M would have moved to the PPF and not BSPS2. Redress therefore needs to be re-calculated on that basis.
Summary
The advice given to Mr M wasnt suitable. 
In light of what I have explained above, I think that PSFM should calculate any 
compensation to Mr M for the unsuitable advice using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology. But PSFM should use the benefits offered by the 
PPF for comparison purposes.
I do accept that PSFM has said it still doesnt believe this would change anything and that 
there would still be no loss. However, we need to see these calculations to make sure they 
have been done correctly.
Ive also personally explained the calculation approach to Mr M. I completely accept that it 
might seem very unfair that some colleagues have received redress whereas he might not. 
But every individual case is different and I have also explained the relationship DB pensions 
can have with bond yields. There have been recent and very significant changes in these 
areas caused by market corrections. In short, the landscape for DB pensions has changed 
substantially in recent times.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for PSFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have most likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his stated early 
retirement age of 55, as per the assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
PSFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
PSFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PSFM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts PSFMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PSFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct PSFM Limited to pay 
Mr M the compensation amount (if any is due) as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
PSFM Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on PSFM Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman