DRN-3228968
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy about the length of time it took Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) to
consider a payment plan, and that it defaulted her loan accounts while they were under 
review.
  
What happened
Miss I took out three loans with Shawbrook  one in 2015, the next in 2016 and the last one
in 2018. Her health deteriorated around August 2019, and she was eventually signed off
from work until January 2020.
In November 2019 Miss I called Shawbrook to discuss an arrangement for the loans while
she was off sick, and her income was greatly reduced. Shawbrook ran through an income
and expenditure (I&E) and determined she had just under £500 disposable income per
month. Miss I offered to pay £250 monthly towards all the loans until she was back at work,
and the agent said they would refer the offer to management to see if it was acceptable.
On 10 December 2019 Shawbrook called and left a message. Miss I called Shawbrook back
a week later and was told the offer had been accepted for three months, with the first
amount due under the payment plan to be taken on 4 January 2020.
Miss I called Shawbrook in January 2020, having noticed the first payment hadnt gone out.
The agent explained that what shed been told in December, about the offer being accepted,
wasnt right  and also that the November I&E hadnt been completed correctly. Miss I ran
through a new I&E during the call, and a revised offer was referred for review. A complaint
was also raised about the time taken for Shawbrook to agree a payment plan.
Over the next two weeks, after the call in January 2020, Shawbrook issued default notices
on all three loans. The arrears had reached a certain level, so the notices were automatically
triggered. Soon after, the payment plan offer was reviewed, and some further questions
were highlighted  so the offer wasnt accepted. Shawbrook attempted to call Miss I twice
around this time to discuss the accounts.  
Miss I called Shawbrook on 7 February 2020 to say she was back at work, and her salary
would shortly be returning to what it had been. Miss I was also selling her buy to let property,
and told Shawbrook she would use the proceeds of the sale to clear the arrears. Shawbrook
agreed to put all collections activities on hold, including defaulting the accounts, until 22
February 2020  when it asked Miss I to call back with an update. Shawbrook responded to
Miss Is complaint on 18 February 2020 and acknowledged there had been mistakes. It
offered £50 by way of apology.
On 27 February Miss I called to say the property had been sold, and she was expecting the
funds to arrive within a week. Miss I spoke to Shawbrook again on 2 March 2020 and said
she had returned to full time employment. She explained her salary was back to pre-
sickness levels, but her first months pay would be lower. Miss I also said the proceeds of
the property sale were now due in two weeks. Later in March 2020, Miss I saw on her credit
report that the accounts for the two older loans had been terminated and a default reported
for each on 25 and 26 February 2020. She called Shawbrook and complained again.
Miss I also asked for a payment holiday in April 2020, as her earnings had been affected by
the pandemic. That wasnt accepted as the remaining open account was six months in
arrears, but a three-month plan for £1 token payments was set up. Towards the end of those
three months Miss I still wasnt in a position to pay more than £1 towards the debt  so
Shawbrook defaulted the last loan in July 2020.
Miss Is complaint was reconsidered by Shawbrook, but it didnt have anything further to add
 so she referred the matter to us. An investigator here reviewed the complaint and thought
Shawbrook had treated Miss I fairly when it halted collections actives while she was signed
off sick for six months. He also thought Shawbrook had showed a reasonable amount of
forbearance when it said it would wait until 22 February, and that defaulting the accounts
when no payments had been received by then was fair in the circumstances.
Miss I didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision
on the matter. I issued a provisional decision that said I didnt consider Shawbrook needed 
to take any action in respect of the defaults registered, but that I intended to award more 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss I when attempting to put a 
payment plan in place. Ive copied below the part of that decision which set out my rationale:
Shawbrook has acknowledged it made mistakes in attempting to set up a payment plan for
Miss I. During the first I&E in November 2019 Shawbrook doesnt ask whether Miss I has
any loans, and also doesnt query why she only offered to pay £250 per month against
disposable income of (apparently) nearly £500. She also isn't asked whether she's spoken to
her mortgage company about a concession, and it isn't clarified whether she has a mortgage
on her buy to let property. Those questions ought to have been obvious during call  and not
asking them meant the offer couldnt be accepted when it was reviewed.
Miss I was also mistakenly told her offer hadnt been accepted in December 2019. Both
issues meant that by the call in January 2020, Miss I was right back where shed started. Ive
seen evidence that Miss I had funds in her account to afford a payment plan during that
period. So while I accept that arrears had reached the level that could trigger default notices
being sent, I dont think Miss I would have found herself in that position had Shawbrooks
errors not delayed putting a plan in place.
There were further mistakes during the January 2020 call. Ive calculated that Miss Is
disposable income, based on the information she gave, was around £440  not £150, as
was recorded in the notes when the proposal was later reviewed. Bearing in mind the
previous offer had been rejected as there was no clear reason why it had been much lower
than the disposable income calculated, I think that should have been queried by Shawbrook
during the January call. The plan was originally intended to support Miss I while she was
signed off work  but that was only meant to be until January 2020, so its also unclear why
that wasnt discussed during this call. Those mistakes meant another opportunity to put in
place a payment plan was missed.
Miss I called on 20 January and 7 February 2020, and I cant see a good reason why
Shawbrook didnt try and resolve some of the outstanding queries it had about her proposal
or attempt to put in place an arrangement. I appreciate she was in the process of selling a
property, but that was by no means a guaranteed solution in the short term. Shawbrook had
also said a default would be added if a payment plan wasnt agreed. I accept that Miss I
didnt call back with an update by 22 February 2020, so Shawbrook issued default notices 
but I dont agree her accounts would have been in that position had the mistakes Ive
highlighted above not happened. I appreciate that Shawbrook were sending out letters about
the accounts during the period in question, but I think those were at odds with theconversations it was having with Miss I over the phone  and the suggestions that her
proposals were being considered.
A suitable arrangement could have been put in place after the first call Miss I made to
Shawbrook in November 2019. But instead she was put to a lot of extra effort, as a result of
the errors, with multiple calls over many months. Miss I was already struggling with her
health during most of the period in question, and shes told us that not having a plan in place
caused her additional stress and worry  at a time when she was meant to be focussing on
getting better. Her frustration at being defaulted when shed been in regular dialogue with
Shawbrook, and willing to put an arrangement in place, is evident during the later calls  and
understandable, given the journey shed had.
So, bearing in mind the above, I dont think the £50 offered by Shawbrook in its first final
response fairly compensates that impact. So Im upholding Miss Is complaint about the
delays in agreeing to a payment plan, and directing Shawbrook to pay an additional £300 (to
bring the total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to £350).
Unfortunately the pandemic further hampered Miss Is financial recovery. In April 2020 she
wasnt able to pay more than £1 a month towards the debts, with her circumstances
unchanged by July 2020. Shed also had to use the proceeds from the sale of her property
towards debts elsewhere. The Financial Conduct Authority issued specific guidance around
forbearance in relation to financial difficulty caused by the pandemic. But as Miss Is financial
difficulty pre-dated the restrictions, that guidance wasnt relevant to any considerations.
So, while I dont think Miss I wouldve had defaults recorded for the two loan accounts in
February 2020, but for Shawbrooks mistakes  I do consider that she would eventually have
defaulted on all three. The third loan was defaulted by Shawbrook after the arrears had
reached more than six months, and there had been a three-month period where only token
payments could be afforded. In July 2020 it didnt look like Miss I would be able to return to
full contractual payments or clear the arrears in the near future so I think Shawbrook acted
fairly when it recorded a default in relation to that loan.
Having two of the defaults recorded on Miss Is credit file earlier than they might otherwise
have been, will mean they drop off sooner. So Im not directing Shawbrook to take any
further action in relation to the defaults. I appreciate that my outcome on that aspect of the
complaint will come as a disappointment to Miss I. But I hope, at very least, Ive clearly
explained my thought process in arriving at that position.
Miss I responded to say she accepted my provisional findings. Shawbrook didnt respond to 
my decision before the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the response from Miss I, and considered everything afresh, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings and rationale I set out in my provisional decision. 
Therefore Im directing Shawbrook to put things right for Miss I in the same way I explained 
above (an increase to the compensation previously offered).My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Is complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited, and direct 
the bank to pay an additional £300 compensation (on top of the £50 already offered) for the
distress and inconvenience caused while attempting to put a payment plan in place.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman