DRN-2981457
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed him to borrow money irresponsibly and 
then was unhelpful when he asked to amend the basis of the borrowing. 
What happened
Mr S had an existing mortgage with Barclays. In 2005 he moved property and ported his 
Barclays mortgage. As a result, he entered into a new mortgage agreement. The new 
agreement involved borrowing just under £109,000 on a capital repayment basis. The term 
of the mortgage was 25 years and 8 months, meaning the mortgage was due to be repaid in 
full in 2031.
Mr S mortgage included flexible features. Specifically, there was an accompanying 
mortgage current account and reserve facility. Effectively the reserve facility allowed Mr S to 
borrow and pay back additional money as he required  the amount he could borrow 
depended on how much of his mortgage had been paid off. Any borrowing under this facility 
would need to be repaid by the end of the mortgage term.
Mr S first used the reserve facility in August 2008, when he borrowed £4,000. Over the next 
several years this borrowing fluctuated, with Mr S making repayments and taking additional 
borrowing at different times. The borrowing on the reserve facility was repaid in January 
2014, having peaked at just over £5,500 in October 2012.
Then, in July 2014, Mr S borrowed £50,000 through his mortgage current account reserve 
facility. He made regular payments to cover the monthly interest charged on this amount, in 
addition to his regular mortgage repayments, for the next several years.
In August 2017 Mr S took a further advance from Barclays. He borrowed just over £50,000 
on a capital repayment basis repayable over 13 and a half years  meaning the term 
coincided with that of Mr S main mortgage. He used the funds from the further advance to 
repay the mortgage current account.
Mr S later complained to Barclays about it allowing him to borrow £50,000 through his 
mortgage current account in 2014. He said a month after borrowing this hed realised he 
couldnt afford to pay any more than what was required to cover the monthly interest  so the 
borrowing was essentially on an interest only basis. He said he thought Barclays hadnt done 
enough to check he could afford the borrowing before it was granted. He also said that hed 
repeatedly asked in branch for help from Barclays, but it had said there was nothing that 
could be done  specifically it had said the borrowing couldnt be changed to a repayment 
basis. He had later been able to do this so felt Barclays had unfairly left this borrowing on an 
interest only basis for several years.
Barclays said it didnt think it had made an error. It said that the reserve facility had been 
agreed as part of the original mortgage application. When Mr S had drawn down funds, no 
further affordability assessment had been carried out. So, it didnt think it had made a 
mistake by providing the lending  in line with what hed agreed to when he first took out the 
mortgage. And Barclays said it didnt have any record of Mr S raising concerns about not 
being able to repay the borrowing or any indication an application to amend the borrowing 
had been turned down. 
Unhappy with this response Mr S asked our service to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into matters but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr S did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a 
result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the mortgage offer from 2005 which confirms that the mortgage current account 
and reserve facility were part of the agreement made at that time. And Ive seen statements 
for the mortgage current account, showing that it was in place from when the mortgage was 
taken out, and that Mr S had made use of the reserve regularly from 2008 onwards. So, Im 
satisfied that the borrowing he took in 2014, which he says Barclays didnt do enough to 
check was affordable, was not a new credit agreement entered into at that time. Rather it 
was borrowing under an existing flexible facility  a facility that Mr S could make use of but 
was under no obligation to.
Barclays has said it didnt carry out an affordability assessment in 2014 as Mr S was 
borrowing under a flexible facility that was already agreed. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. Ive seen contact notes from the months before Mr S borrowed money 
through the mortgage current account. These indicate hed spoken to Barclays several times 
about being interested in additional borrowing. And it appears several different types had 
been discussed  such as a further advance, acting as a guarantor for a family members 
mortgage and even commercial borrowing. But I havent seen any evidence that any 
applications had been taken forward or rejected. So, I dont think there was anything in those 
conversations that meant Barclays shouldve treated the withdrawal request under the 
mortgage current account differently. And, while I appreciate that the amount withdrawn was 
quite high, it wasnt new borrowing. It was part of the existing agreed facilities.
Mr S has indicated he thinks the borrowing was irresponsible because it was provided on an 
interest only basis. But this isnt correct. The borrowing was under a flexible facility. It 
incurred interest which did need to be paid. But Mr S could choose how to operate it. 
Mr S could pay just the interest each month  paying the capital owed under the mortgage 
current account when his repayment mortgage term ended  which would be similar to 
interest only borrowing. Or he couldve made payments to cover the interest and reduce the 
capital  as with a repayment mortgage. Or he couldve run a hybrid of these things - paying 
off interest only, or interest and some capital, on a monthly basis and making lump sum 
repayments, without incurring any early repayment charges, to bring the borrowing down at 
other points before the end of the term. Indeed, the account statements provided by 
Barclays show he had already operated the current account reserve in this way for several 
years  so he was familiar with these options. Contact notes provided by Barclays also show that he discussed the borrowing with the 
Barclays mortgage department shortly after it was taken. The notes indicate he was told how 
much hed need to repay each month to cover just the interest  which Mr S has 
acknowledged and was in fact what he did. The notes show he was also told how much the 
repayments would need to be to make sure that the capital was also repaid in full by the end 
of the term  on a standard repayment basis. So, I dont agree that the borrowing was 
provided on a purely interest only basis.
And, taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays has acted incorrectly by allowing 
Mr S to borrow the funds through his mortgage current account in 2014.
Mr S has also argued that Barclays was unhelpful after he took this borrowing. He said that 
he realised shortly after taking the borrowing he could only afford to make payments that 
covered the interest on the current account  rather than repaying the capital. He says he 
spoke to Barclays branch staff about his options, including consolidating the lending onto a 
repayment basis, but was told there was nothing that could be done.
As Ive already explained, the borrowing was flexible. So, Mr S could choose how to go 
about repaying it  he just needed to do so by the end of the mortgage term, which was due 
to run to 2031. And I think Mr S was already reasonably aware of this, given hed made 
regular use of the mortgage current account before this borrowing. So even if Barclays had 
said, based on his circumstances, it couldnt offer him a replacement loan on a repayment 
basis, I think he was aware he could still have made payments towards the capital under the 
existing facility  if he had the means to do so. 
Barclays has been unable to provide notes of any of the conversations that Mr S had in 
branch. This isnt unusual as branches dont tend to keep in depth notes of all customer 
interactions. I dont doubt what Mr S says about what he was told  that there was little 
option available to him other than to ensure that the balance was repaid by the end of the 
term. But based on what hes said, I dont think that was necessarily wrong.
Mr S has said that he could only afford to pay the interest due on the mortgage current 
account each month. Monthly repayments on a capital and interest basis, on the same 
amount of borrowing, would always have been higher than what he was already paying  
just interest. So, if he told branch staff that the interest was all he could afford, I dont think it 
was necessarily wrong to say it was unlikely Barclays could offer him a repayment loan. 
And I also dont think it was wrong to suggest there was little else that could be offered. He 
was already paying only interest, on the flexible facility. The interest needed to be repaid 
each month otherwise the account wouldve fallen into arrears, which wouldve impacted 
Mr S credit file. So, it seems there was little by way of alternative arrangement that couldve 
been provided, without having a negative impact on Mr S.
Mr S successfully applied for a further advance in mid-2017. This loan was on a capital 
repayment basis and he used it to pay off the mortgage current account. And he says he 
only didnt apply for this sooner because of what Barclays staff told him and the fact this loan 
was later approved means the information he was given was wrong. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, based on what hes said about his circumstances, I dont think the information 
given to him by branch staff was necessarily wrong. And I havent seen anything that leads 
me to think he was told by branch staff that he could not apply for alternative borrowing.Ive seen notes that suggest Mr S enquired with Barclays mortgage department about 
consolidating his mortgage and mortgage current account in early 2017. The notes suggest 
the person he spoke to indicated this might not be possible, but directed him to speak to, 
and arranged a conversation with, a specialist adviser. It doesnt appear that an application 
went ahead after that conversation, at least not on the basis that was later approved in 
August 2017. So, as an application didnt progress, I cant say that Barclays incorrectly 
rejected one at that time.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr S unfairly or incorrectly 
after he borrowed funds through his mortgage current account in 2014. While I cant say for 
certain what information he was provided in branch, based on what hes told us, it doesnt 
appear to have been unreasonable. And regardless he still had the option of making 
payments towards the capital under the existing agreement, without incurring any penalties. 
So, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman