DRN-3270379
The complaint
Ms L complained about how her claim for storm damage was unfairly declined by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) under her home insurance policy. Ms L had a 
representative supporting her on this complaint, but for simplicity and ease I will only refer to 
Ms L.
What happened
Ms L made a claim on her policy in October 2020 for storm damage  she said rainwater had 
entered her roof causing significant damage. RSA appointed a surveyor to review the 
damage to Ms Ls property. Based on the report from the surveyor, RSA decided to decline 
the claim. RSA agreed that there had been a storm, but it didnt think the damage visible was 
caused by a storm. Instead, the surveyor thought there were several signs of wear and tear 
to the roof which may have led to the water entering the property.
However, Ms L said the damage was first evident following a storm in March 2020. She said 
she didnt report this to RSA immediately. She was concerned about the risks of the Covid-
19 pandemic and her own circumstances that made her more vulnerable, so she didnt want 
anyone entering her home as. Ms L said she tried to call RSA and report the damage later, 
but she couldnt get through. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence of Ms L 
trying to report any damage following the first storm, so he didnt think RSA was given fair 
opportunity to validate the claim. In respect to the storm in October, he thought RSA had 
been fair in declining the claim based on the evidence provided by the surveyor. Ms L 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first considered what Ms L said about the storm in March 2020 causing damage to her 
property. RSA never considered this claim because it wasnt made aware of it. I can see 
RSA did check its telephone records from the period Ms L said she made a claim, to ensure 
it hadnt made an administrative error. I think this was a reasonable approach. However, 
RSA didnt find any record of a call been made by Ms L on any of the numbers that she said 
she may have called from.
Therefore, it seems likely RSA didnt become aware of the potential damage caused in Ms 
Ls property until about six months after the actual event. Ms L said we are not obliged in
anyway to prove our claim which took place during a government mandated lock 
down.since the storm happened long before the surveyor came, and indeed the time was 
needlessly made longer due to the unreasonably long time it took the insurance company to 
reply to our appeal. The damage did occur and was caused by storms that happened in the 
lock down. We are covered.
Ive considered what Ms L said. I agree the Covid-19 pandemic has caused several issues to 
businesses and consumers. We dont know what RSA wouldve done had it known about 
potential damage caused in March 2020. However, its the consumers responsibility to 
inform the insurer as soon as the damage occurs. Its also the consumers responsibility to 
prove an insured event caused the damage that has been claimed for. Unfortunately, there 
is no evidence that supports RSA were made aware of the claim at the time, so it couldnt do 
anything to validate the claim. Therefore, I dont think its fair to expect RSA to cover a claim 
when it didnt know about it or hasnt seen any evidence that an insured event did cause the 
damage.
RSA did consider the claim from the storm in October 2020, but it declined the claim due to 
the condition of the roof. Ms Ls testimony now shows she said the damage occurred earlier 
than October 2020, so I dont need to consider this as its clear RSA has been fair in 
declining this claim as the damage occurred before the second storm occurred.
For completeness, I have reviewed the report from the surveyor to understand what he said 
about Ms Ls roof. The surveyors report shows he observed that there is no evidence of 
storm damage. There is however a number of areas that are suffering a natural breakdown 
of materials which is around the chimney, the valley and the party wall. The photographs in 
the surveyors report support the commentary the surveyor made. I think its most likely the 
damage caused to Ms Ls property was due to the roof not recently being maintained. The 
policy doesnt cover damage that happens gradually over a period of time. Therefore, even 
if Ms L had made a claim in March 2020, I dont think the outcome for her wouldve been any 
different as the evident condition of the roof appears long standing in nature. As I havent 
seen any evidence that an insured event caused the damage to Ms Ls property, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont this complaint, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman