DRN-3435833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about how Bank of Scotland plc has handled their 
mortgage accounts.
What happened
I issued a decision in February 2022 about what parts of the complaint we would be 
considering. In that I said the only issue Ill be deciding here is a complaint about how 
Mr and Mrs Hs data has been handled.
I then issued a provisional decision about that point in March 2022, the findings of which 
said:
Mr and Mrs H have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs H and the business, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal 
processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In 
doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
Mr and Mrs H have provided an information rights spreadsheet that they would like 
Bank of Scotland plc and the wider banking group to fill in. Mr and Mrs H have the right 
of access  ie the right to ask for copies of their personal information that is held by an 
organisation. But that doesnt extend to an organisation completing a spreadsheet at 
Mr and Mrs Hs request.
Mr and Mrs H have also provided a call log list which detailed which calls they had and 
hadnt received as part of their subject access requests. Having cross-referenced the 
calls on that list with the various documents in the file it seems Bank of Scotland plc 
has either now provided all the calls or explained why it is unable to provide certain 
calls. If that isnt the case  and if any subject access requests are still outstanding  I 
would ask Mr and Mrs H to detail exactly what they are still awaiting in their response to 
this provisional decision.
In May 2019 Birmingham Midshires offered £200 compensation as Mr and Mrs H had 
been told they couldnt make a verbal subject access request, and instead the 
request had to be made in writing. It confirmed verbal requests can be made, and that 
feedback would be given to the staff members involved. Having considered 
everything that seems a fair resolution to that complaint.
I understand there have been delays in information being provided under some of the 
subject access requests, and Mr and Mrs H havent been satisfied with the timescales 
or the information provided. Whilst this service can consider complaints about subject 
access requests, we generally consider the complaint from a customer service point of 
view and wed look if there was any financial loss incurred due to the issue. It is not our 
role to determine whether a firm has complied with the relevant legislation and rules. 
Weve no power to fine a business, or consider any wider concerns. These would be 
matters for The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) - www.ico.org.uk/
If Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the content of what they have received  that is, if 
they think material to which they are entitled has been withheld - thats a matter better 
dealt with by the ICO rather than this service as its not within my powers to enforce 
data protection laws. That would also be the better place for any complaint about an 
outstanding request as whilst I could direct a business to provide the information, if the 
business didnt comply with that then the customer would need to go to court to ask for 
my decision to be enforced. A much simpler route to getting the request fulfilled would 
be for the matter to be raised with the ICO.
Despite them saying they dont want compensation, Ive still considered whether any is 
due for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and/or Mrs H in respect of the 
issues surrounding their data (over and above the offer already made by the business). 
Having considered everything, I agree with Mr and Mrs H that no compensation should 
be paid, and so Im not provisionally minded to make any award.
We didnt need the earlier information to fairly decide their previous complaint, as we 
request anything we need directly from the parties involved; we didnt need 
Mr and Mrs H to obtain information from Bank of Scotland plc for us as if we wanted to 
review any information then we would have requested that directly from the business. 
For that reason, Im satisfied they havent been caused a financial loss.
Whilst I can see Mr and Mrs H have put a great deal of time and energy into pursuing 
matters  and as part of that making subject access requests  that has been their 
choice. Ive no doubt this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs H. But much of that 
time and energy has been due to decisions Mr and Mrs H have made  such as 
continuing to pursue matters that have previously been decided by this service, and 
making multiple subject access requests for information held across the entire 
banking group.
Mr and Mrs H have the right of access for their personal data, and Bank of Scotland 
plc has an obligation to handle that request without undue delay. If Mr and Mrs H feel 
Bank of Scotland plc hasnt met its obligations in that respect then I can only 
recommend they contact the ICO as Ive set out above. But in terms of our service, Im 
not provisionally minded to make any order or award.
Bank of Scotland plc didnt make any further submissions. Mr and Mrs H sent a 
sixteen-page response, plus accompanying emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive read and considered Mr and Mrs Hs response in its entirety I wont be 
responding to each point individually as most relate to the issues Ive already said I wont 
be considering, or they dont impact the overall outcome of this complaint.This service is independent and impartial, and we dont act either for consumers or the 
financial businesses about which they are complaining. For that reason we dont take 
directions from either party about how a complaint should be handled and responded to, 
nor about what questions and points should be asked and answered. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs H have the right of access to their 
personal information, but that is it; Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to fill in a 
spreadsheet provided by Mr and Mrs H about that information. As it has no regulatory or 
legal obligation to complete the spreadsheet I cant order Bank of Scotland plc to do so, 
nor would I say it was wrong not to. It also has no regulatory or legal obligation to answer 
data queries as part of a subject access request. All it had to do was provide a copy of 
the personal information it held on Mr H and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H have said that information is still outstanding and that has been clearly set 
out to this service in the various updated call logs. Unfortunately they havent, in their 
response to my provisional decision, provided details of the specific calls they say are 
missing. If there are any specific calls that Mr and Mrs H havent received, or havent 
received an explanation of why they arent available, then I can only suggest they provide 
the exact details of the calls to the business so that can be looked into. But having 
considered the full file Im satisfied, based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs H 
and the business, that all the calls that have been referred to by Mr and Mrs H have been 
dealt with (either by being provided, or an explanation being given that the call isnt 
available). 
Mr and Mrs H have referred me back to their emails of 28 October 2020 and 
13 November 2020. I can confirm that I considered those emails as part of my provisional 
decision as they formed part of the overall file. I wont detail all the individual points, and I 
can see that some relate to the points I said I wont be considering. Instead Ive looked at 
everything that has been said about the points I can consider in the round, without 
detailing an individual finding on each individual point.
Mr and Mrs H have said:
The outstanding evidence still to be provided to the complainants by Lloyds Banking 
Group has been clearly set out to the by the complainants to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in the various updated call logs. No credible assessment can be conducted by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service without such evidence being provided by Lloyds 
Banking Group and received by the complainants and forwarded to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service
But this complaint just relates to the provision of their information by Bank of Scotland plc 
(and its trading names of Birmingham Midshires and Bank of Scotland), so we dont need 
Mr and Mrs H to obtain information from Bank of Scotland plc or to forward it to us. Im 
assuming this goes back to the complaint that was decided by my colleague in 2019 but 
as Ive explained, I wont be considering anything relating to that complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have said that they have sent us information about a further maturing 
complaint from August 2020. By that Im assuming they are referring to the final response 
letter dated 20 August 2020. Mr and Mrs H havent told us what they are unhappy about 
in relation to that complaint (in respect of the points Ive said we can consider as part of 
this complaint), but from what I can see from the letter the business:
Explained to Mr and Mrs H that sometimes the 0 at the start of their mortgage 
account number is omitted and it wouldnt be changing that.Said it had acknowledged receipt of a recent subject access request and 
explained why letters about those would normally be addressed to a single name 
(rather than jointly).
Said it had appointed a dedicated complaints handler to Mr and Mrs H, and that 
any future complaints should be made to that person in writing.
Theres nothing there that seems incorrect, or that I would tell the business it shouldnt 
do. In any event, even if any of those shouldnt have been done by the business, I cant 
see that any of those points would have caused a financial loss to Mr and Mrs H, nor 
caused them any distress or inconvenience such that would warrant a payment of 
compensation.
It is clear Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy about the outcome of their previous complaint 
(which was dealt with by way of my colleagues final decision issued in July 2019) but as Ive 
explained I wont be considering that complaint again. 
Bank of Scotland plc may not have handled all Mr and Mrs Hs data subject access requests 
as well as it could have, but it doesnt automatically follow that compensation is due for that. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs H are still awaiting information from 
any of their data subject access requests (with that being information they are entitled to 
receive under the right of access) then the best place for them to raise that is with the ICO, 
just like they did in March 2020 about the fact they hadnt received the information theyd 
requested under the October 2019 subject access request. 
Ive reviewed the matter of compensation again and having done so Im not making any 
award. As I said above, whilst Bank of Scotland plc could have handled Mr and Mrs Hs 
subject access requests better that, in itself, isnt a reason for me to order compensation be 
paid. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, we didnt need  to determine the previous 
complaint  the information Mr and Mrs H were asking for as we would have requested 
anything we needed directly from Bank of Scotland plc. And it was Mr and Mrs Hs choice to 
put as much time and energy  and as part of that, making subject access requests - into 
pursuing matters that had already been decided by this service.
Having considered everything Mr and Mrs H said in response to my provisional decision, 
and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in my February 2022 jurisdiction decision and my March 2022 provisional 
decision.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman