DRN-2978645
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains TSB Bank Plc unfairly returned a payment made to its 
account and then closed the account. It asks for compensation for the financial loss caused 
to its business and compensation for damage caused to its reputation.
What happened
Mr S is the director of P, and acts on its behalf in bringing this complaint. In December 2019 
Mr S applied for a business account for P with TSB. P was issued a debit card, but the 
account remained inactive while TSB conducted further checks.
TSB called Mr S in early January 2020. It asked him a series of questions and also asked 
him to provide copies of three months worth of business statements and a copy of a 
contract Mr S says P had with a third-party company. TSB confirmed by letter that until the 
information was provided and reviewed, the account could not be used. It said it would 
contact Mr S to let him know the outcome of the checks once they were completed.
Mr S sent TSB the information it had requested. TSB reviewed the information and decided 
to close the account. It sent Mr S a letter in January 2020 confirming its decision. Mr S says 
he was abroad when the letter was sent. He sent TSB an email the day after TSB sent its 
letter. He asked TSB to activate the account because he had instructed the third-party 
company to make a large payment. He also said that if the payment bounced back, Ps 
business would be destroyed.
As Ps account was not active, the payment was returned to the third-party company. In 
early February, TSB unrestricted the account, at which point a smaller payment was made to 
the account by Mr S spouse. TSB returned the payment and closed the account.
Mr S complained to TSB. He said the third-party company had become suspicious when the 
payment was returned. As a result, P had lost its contract, which had caused significant 
damage to its reputation.
TSB rejected Ps complaint. It said it was able to perform checks and not activate the 
account, and it took the decision not to provide the account in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. An investigator decided the complaint should not 
be upheld. They found:
TSB could review Ps account at any time. And it was able to not allow payments in 
or out of the account while it conducted a review. It also wasnt obliged to keep P as 
a customer even if the account had only recently opened.
A debit card was issued to the account, but this is TSBs standard process, so that 
when an account is activated, there isnt a further delay caused by waiting for a card 
to arrive.
Mr S was aware the account wasnt activated when he told the third-party company 
to make the payment. The email he sent the day after TSB decided to close the 
account demonstrates this. His email also revealed he was aware the payment could 
bounce back to the third-party company. So, he was aware of the risk his decision 
carried.
The small payment Mr S spouse made in February 2020 credited the account only 
because TSB systems required it to un-restrict the account before it could close.
Mr S says P lost the contract with the third-party company. But TSB acted in line with 
its responsibilities and the terms and conditions of the account, so it should not be 
liable for Ps losses. Mr S chose to instruct the third-party company to make the 
payment when he knew the account wasnt activated and the payment could bounce 
back.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why:
TSB could review Ps account and ask for information before deciding whether to 
activate it. TSB has very important legal and regulatory responsibilities, and it is only 
right that is able to take proportionate actions such as performing additional checks 
to meet them. If TSB didnt act it could risk serious sanction.
Mr S knew Ps account wasnt active when he instructed the third-party company to 
make the payment. So, by taking this action he risked the payment bouncing back, 
which his email to TSB revealed he was aware of. I cannot hold TSB accountable for 
the risk Mr S chose to take. It is for him and P to bear the consequences of his 
decision, and not TSB. TSB didnt need to forgo its review simply because of Mr S 
eagerness for the payment to be made. 
TSB has the discretion not to continue a customer relationship. It wasnt satisfied it 
wanted P as a customer after performing further checks. Just because it had 
previously issued a debit card didnt mean it had to keep P as a customer. 
I understand why TSB wanted to ask for more information from Mr S, and it made a 
legitimate decision to close the account within the discretion it has. Its not unusual 
for banks to perform further checks on accounts after issuing cards or cheque books. 
TSB closed the account in line with the applicable account terms and conditions. Just 
because it needed to un-restrict the account to close it, during which time Mr S 
spouse made a payment, does not mean it needed to allow the previous payment 
made by the third-party company to credit the account.
P may have lost its contract with the third-party company and suffered reputational 
damage, at least in that companys eyes. Its unfortunate if this is the case. But TSB 
wasnt wrong to reject the payment and close Ps account. So, I am not awarding P 
compensation.My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Ps complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman