DRN-2764753
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2002 when she applied for a 
Laura Ashley store card.
What happened
Mrs M complained to this service. She bought a PPI policy in 2002 in a store from a member 
of staff at Laura Ashley. It has been agreed that AXA France is responsible for looking at this 
complaint. So for ease, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI seller in this decision.
Mrs M said she would not have bought PPI; she did not need it as it was not dissimilar to 
her work policy; she was told she had to buy the PPI to get the store card. She 
concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs M disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mrs Ms store card application. I can see there was a separate 
section of the form headed Protecting Your Account. I can see Mrs M signed this section 
(separately from the credit agreement) and entered her personal details and I noted she 
declined other offers on the form. So I think Mrs M, or the staff member completed the 
form diligently by choosing the products she wanted.
Mrs M signed under the statement: Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account 
Cover I think her signature means AXA France probably made it clear enough that 
Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
I noted Mrs M was eligible to buy PPI. And the policy wasnt recommended, so AXA France 
didnt have to make sure it was right for Mrs M. But it had to make sure she received
enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an
informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could 
have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
because  although she told us she had other insurance, some savings and would get 
sick pay from her employer  I think the PPI could have paid out for longer than her 
employee benefits. And would leave her savings and other insurance for other pressing 
uses. So I think the PPI could have been useful if she wasnt able to work because it 
could pay out for longer than her sick pay and savings.
AXA France should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I dont know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs M was 
affected by the main exclusions. So - even if shed been given a full list of the 
exclusions - I dont think it would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mrs M was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman