DRN-2143616
The complaint
Mr W complains that a holiday he took with his family wasnt as described. Because he used 
his credit card, issued by Lloyds Bank PLC, in part payment, he believes the bank should 
offer him a refund. 
What happened
Mr W and his family, including two children, booked a 14-night holiday over the Easter break 
in April 2019. In total they paid just over £5,400 for a full-board package, including flights. Of 
the total price, Mr W used his Lloyds credit card to pay just over £3,850; the balance of 
around £1,500 was paid for using a different card. 
The holiday was advertised as having a peak Easter holiday programme, creche facilities 
and two restaurants. 
Mr W has said however that there were a number of problems with the holiday. They 
included:
The flight was delayed, so that Mr W and his family didnt arrive at the resort until late at 
night, instead of in the middle of the day. 
The room that had been booked wasnt as described and didnt have beds for the 
children. 
The door frame was loose and had to be repaired. 
One of the restaurants was closed.
The creche facilities werent available because of the high demand. 
The pool and other facilities were overcrowded. 
There were insufficient staff at the hotel.  
This is a summary only. Mr W has described in more detail how these issues affected him 
and his family and how they spoilt their enjoyment of their holiday. 
Mr W and his family complained to the holiday provider and to the other credit card provider, 
as well as to Lloyds. The holiday provider offered a £250 voucher; the other card provider 
agreed to refund the full amount paid using its card; Lloyds offered a 15% refund of the full 
price of the holiday - £813.70. 
Mr W didnt think that Lloyds offer went far enough. He believes a full refund would be fair, 
and so he referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. He took the view that, having regard to what the holiday company and the 
other card provider had done, Lloyds offer was fair in the circumstances. He didnt 
recommend that it be increased. Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where payment is made by 
credit card, a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against 
the supplier of goods or services has a similar claim against the card issuer. I need to 
consider therefore whether Mr W has a claim against the holiday provider and, if so, what an 
appropriate remedy is. 
I dont doubt that Mr Ws holiday was unsatisfactory for a number of reasons. From what 
hes explained, its clear that it wasnt the relaxing break he had expected. However, not all 
the problems hes described constitute a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. For 
example, a delay to a flight (as opposed to its cancellation) would not usually be breach. 
Similarly, a busy pool  whilst frustrating  would not usually breach any term of a holiday 
contract. 
Its arguable however that other problems Mr W and his family encountered would be a 
breach of the contract. If for example the closure of one restaurant meant that meals were 
unavailable or significantly delayed for people on an all-inclusive package, the holiday 
company would not be providing what it agreed to provide. The same might apply to 
childcare facilities, if they were part of the overall package. 
Some of the problems that Mr W has described were resolved or improved by the hotel. 
They include, for example, the lack of bedding on arrival and the issue with the bedroom 
door. Other issues, such as the layout of the hotel accommodation, are not in my view 
supported by persuasive evidence of a breach of contract. 
In my view, its important to note that the usual remedy for a breach of contract is not 
necessarily a full refund. The general principle is to put the parties in the position they would 
have been in if the contract had been performed. Its also the case that its quite unusual for 
courts to award damages for loss of enjoyment. 
In determining Mr Ws complaint, Im required by law and by our rules to do so by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In deciding whats fair 
and reasonable, I must have regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. 
The relevant circumstances here include the offers made by other parties involved  the 
holiday company and the other card provider. Its also important to note that, whilst the 
holiday was unsatisfactory in many respects, Mr W and his family were provided with flights, 
accommodation and food. They got something for their money.
Overall, Mr W has been offered or given refunds amounting to around 40% of the cost of the 
holiday. That may be more or less than he would receive if he were to seek compensation in 
court from the holiday provider or from Lloyds. In my view, however, it is a fair and 
reasonable resolution. It follows that Lloyds offer to refund £813.70 is itself a reasonable 
one, and I dont believe it should be required to offer more.          
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do any more to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman