DRN-3425791
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mrs S complain about the service they received from more 2 life Ltd following 
their application for a lifetime mortgage. Their son, who Ill call Mr S2, has power of attorney 
for both of them and brings this complaint on their behalf.
Mr S2 says more2life and its solicitors caused avoidable delays and, as a result, his parents 
have ended up with a mortgage at a higher interest rate than they would otherwise have 
had, and the family was caused considerable stress, anxiety and inconvenience. 
What happened
In November 2020, on the recommendation of an independent broker, Mr S1 and Mrs S 
applied for a lifetime mortgage with more2life. The mortgage is a Flexi Choice plan, 
meaning that Mr S1 and Mrs S could borrow a lump sum and draw down further cash later 
as necessary, subject to limits. No payments are required for the life of the mortgage.
More2life received the application on 13 November. It then asked for proof of identity and 
power of attorney documents. Mr S1 and Mrs Ss property was valued towards the end of 
that month. 
On 16 December 2020, more2life issued a mortgage offer, with interest on the initial 
advance fixed for life at a rate of 2.3%. The offer included a special condition on the final 
page, saying more2life required proof of identity and age for Mr S1 before the mortgage 
could complete.
The offer was valid for 42 days. It expired before the mortgage completed. More2life 
extended it for a further 30 days, until 26 February 2021. 
As the end of February approached and the mortgage offer was due to expire, more2life 
considered it still hadnt received acceptable proof of identity and age for Mr S1. It issued a 
revised mortgage offer on 25 February 2021, but this time at an interest rate of 2.53% fixed 
for life on the initial advance. The offer included the same special condition as the first offer, 
requiring proof of identity and age for Mr S1. This mortgage went on to complete on 31 
March 2021. 
Mr S2 complained. He said things had taken far too long, and communication had been 
extremely poor. He pointed to his parents very difficult circumstances and the considerable 
amount of stress his mother in particular had been caused.
More2life said neither it nor its solicitors had done anything wrong. It said it had been 
proactive with the application, and the delays were caused by Mr S1 and Mrs Ss broker and 
solicitors failure to provide satisfactory proof of Mr S1s identity and age  without which the 
mortgage couldnt go ahead. 
Mr S2 referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman on his parents behalf. Our 
Investigator set out a timeline of what had happened, and concluded that the time the 
mortgage took to complete wasnt solely down to more2life or its solicitors. He thought Mr S1 
and Mrs Ss case wasnt a straightforward one and more2lifes service hadnt fallen short in 
the circumstances. He didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr S2 didnt accept that conclusion. He still thought more2life and its solicitors had failed to 
communicate clearly about what documents were needed, and they were therefore 
responsible for the delays with the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, it was entirely reasonable  and indeed it was a regulatory requirement  
for more2life to want to satisfy itself of Mr S1 and Mrs Ss identity as prospective borrowers. I 
agree with Mr S2 that it should have been clear about what it needed from the applicants in 
order to do that. 
More2life knew at an early stage that Mr S1 didnt have a driving licence or a passport, and 
the family were unable to find his birth certificate. The broker told it that soon after the 
application was submitted in November 2020. More2life also knew that Mr S1 lacked 
capacity to manage his affairs and there was a power of attorney in place. 
All of this meant that the application was not straightforward. Ive looked carefully at the 
various timelines of events and commentary from all the parties involved  that is, Mr S2, the 
broker and solicitors acting for his parents, more2life, and the solicitors acting for it. Having 
done so, I think more2life could have been clearer at an earlier stage about exactly what it 
would accept to confirm Mr S1s identity and age. But I dont think it follows that it should 
adjust the interest rate on the mortgage or take any other steps to compensate Mr S1 and 
Mrs S, for reasons Ill go on to explain.
I think there was some delay on the part of all the parties involved. For example, more2lifes 
solicitors records say they were chasing up Mr S1 and Mrs Ss solicitors to find out what 
was happening between issuing the first offer on 16 December, and 1 February, when Mr S1 
and Mrs Ss solicitors asked what would be acceptable in terms of proof of identity and age. 
That was the period during which the first mortgage offer expired; it was, after all, only valid 
for six weeks. The offer was also clear that more2life required further documents in respect 
of Mr S1. This wasnt hidden in any way  it was clear in the offer, and it was the only special 
condition. And it doesnt appear from what the other parties involved have said that they 
were taking steps to move things forward during that period, or to ask more2life what it 
needed if they were unsure.  
More2life went on to extend the offer for a month, and things moved on from there with 
various documents provided. I consider it was reasonable for more2life to extend the offer in 
the circumstances. But it had set out its requirements at the beginning of February 2021 and 
received documents it would accept in March 2021  after the expiry of the extended first 
offer. Rates change all the time and I wouldnt expect it to have held the offer open 
indefinitely. Im also mindful that more2life didnt give a commitment or guarantee to 
complete the mortgage within a particular timescale  and, for this type of mortgage, I dont 
consider the overall time taken was unreasonable or unusual.
Its unfortunate that the interest rate Mr S1 and Mrs S2 ended up with was higher than the 
rate on the first offer. Things could equally have turned out the other way round, with a lower 
rate. But overall, I dont consider I can fairly require more2life to honour the rate in the first 
offer  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find it was responsible for so little progress 
having been made before the offer expired.Im sorry to read of Mr S1 and Mrs Ss ill-health  I can certainly see that they have had a 
very difficult time, and that Mrs S has found this whole matter very stressful. I also recognise 
that Mr S2 feels strongly about this matter and has experienced a good deal of stress 
himself. And I agree with him that communication between all the parties involved could and 
should have been better. However, my remit is to determine a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint about more2life, not to require change to processes. In all the 
circumstances, I dont find that there are grounds on which I can fairly require more2life to do 
or pay anything to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman