DRN-2550240
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service provided to him by OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED 
(Likely Loans).
What happened
Mr W has a loan with Likely Loans. He took this loan out in August 2019. The loan was for 
£4,500 repayable at £182.77 a month for 48 months. 
Mr W complains that Likely Loans:
wont give him a top up loan
has discriminated against him
doesnt provide support for people with dyslexia
wont offer him a further payment holiday
pressured him, in December 2020, into agreeing to monthly payments for January 
and February 2021 that he couldnt afford
has only offered support that will impact his credit file
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Likely Loans 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed. But having considered everything Ive come to the 
same findings as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The decision to not offer Mr W a top up loan was one Likely Loans was entitled to 
make. Ive seen Likely Loans rationale for not granting Mr W a top up loan in 
March 2020. And whilst we cant share this information as its commercially sensitive, 
Im satisfied there is no element of discrimination involved and the process is largely 
automated. Ive also seen no discrimination in Likely Loans reasoning for not 
granting Mr W a top up loan in October 2020, reasoning that has been shared with 
Mr W.
Ive seen no evidence that Likely Loans treated Mr W differently because of his 
disability or nationality. Mr W says he feels Likely Loans has discriminated against 
him given the problems he has experienced. I can understand why Mr W feels this 
way but having looked at all the evidence I find that Likely Loans hasnt done so. Nor 
has Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mr W to know 
that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Im satisfied that Likely Loans has provided appropriate support to Mr W given his 
dyslexia and treated him fairly.
The decision to not offer Mr W a further payment holiday was one Likely Loans was 
entitled to make. Likely Loans hasnt gone against any rules in this respect. It should 
also be remembered that Mr W has already been granted three payment holidays 
totalling 9 months and had a reduced payment plan agreed and put in place. This all 
suggests, in my view, a willingness to support Mr W and a desire to treat him fairly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances. I would also add that having listened to the 
call recording of 1 December 2020 Likely Loans didnt pressure Mr W into agreeing 
the monthly payment of £100 a month for two months.
Likely Loans is required to report Mr Ws account payments accurately to credit 
reference agencies. I cant see that Likely Loans has reported anything incorrect to 
credit reference agencies. Likely Loans has done its best to explain to Mr W what it 
has to report and why, including the effect payment holidays and reduced payments 
have on his file or credit rating.
I can see that there were some failings on the part of Likely Loans in March and April 2020. 
However, Im satisfied that these were adequately investigated and addressed by Likely 
Loans with Mr W, amongst other things, being paid £50.
For the reason stated above, Im satisfied that Mr W has been treated fairly. However, I 
would remind Likely Loans of its obligation to continue to treat Mr W fairly going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman