DRN-2973732
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 1997. The cover started in April 1998 and was cancelled in September 2000. Mr 
and Mrs T say HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Ts representative disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments it had previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because, although HSBC couldnt provide any mortgage 
paperwork, it was able to send in a copy of a financial planning review document, 
completed with Mr and Mrs T in 1997 (and signed by them), in which the PPI was 
recommended. From whats in the document I think Mr and Mrs T were given a choice 
about taking the PPI. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and Mrs T 
were eligible for the cover and they said they didnt have any sick pay entitlement from 
their employers, or any savings to fall back on if they couldnt work. So they had a need 
for cover.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ts employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that couldve affected their ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out, so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs T as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems as though it would 
have been useful for them if something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr 
and Mrs T would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means HSBC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman