DRN-2573290
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creative Finance Corp Ltd (trading as Motorkitty) did not do enough 
checks before approving her loan.
 
What happened
Mrs C took out a logbook loan with Motorkitty on 17 October 2018. She borrowed £1,200 
and needed to repay £160 per month for 12 months until 30 Oct 2019.
Mrs C says that she had a very poor financial record and a history of mental health issues 
when she applied for the loan. She says if Motorkitty had done better checks it would not 
have approved the loan as she could not afford to repay it. Mrs C adds that the situation 
has caused her stress and meant she was unable to function at work due to her financial 
difficulties. She says both she and her husband were made redundant and Motorkitty 
repossessed the car even though she sent evidence of the redundancies. Mrs C adds that 
she had to borrow further to get the car back.
Motorkitty says it asked Mrs C about her income and expenditure and cross-referenced the 
information with her bank statements. It says its checks were compliant with current 
regulations and it has been flexible with Mrs Cs repayment terms.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Motorkittys checks went far enough and that the available information showed the 
repayments were affordable to Mrs C.
Mrs C responded to say, in summary, that her bank statements and credit file showed the 
loan was unaffordable. She says that taking a logbook loan in itself proves she was in a 
desperate situation and that she clearly understated some of her expenses in the 
application. Mrs C says Motorkitty should have realised shed understated her rent and 
other costs, and that her figures for credit commitments were inconsistent with her credit 
record.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs C and to Motorkitty on 6 January 2021. I summarise 
my findings here:
I could see Motorkitty asked Mrs C about her income and was able to verify this with her 
bank statements. It also asked her about her monthly expenditure and says it cross-
referenced that with her bank statements. But I wasnt satisfied Motorkittys checks went far 
enough in this case because:
The loan was over a term of 12 months and Motorkitty needed to ensure 
the repayments were sustainable over that period;
The bank statement showed that Mrs Cs most recent monthly income was £200 
less than the figure shed declared;
I didnt find that the bank statements used by Motorkitty in its assessment 
provided enough information about Mrs Cs expenditure:
oThere were transfers out of the account into another of Mrs Cs accounts 
for over £1,000 each month  Motorkitty did not have statements from this 
other account;
oI couldnt see regular payments for rent, council tax, utilities, television, 
insurance or debt repayments  for all of which Mrs C had declared 
figures;
oMrs C had spent almost twice as much on food as the figure shed declared 
to Motorkitty;
Motorkitty estimated that Mrs Cs disposable income each month was over £800 
which I didnt consider to be consistent with the need for a £1,200 high cost 
loan.
Altogether, I thought Motorkitty ought to have been concerned about the limited expenditure 
shown in Mrs Cs bank statements and should have ensured it fully understood her financial 
situation.
So I then considered whether, based on the information it should have had, Motorkitty
made a fair lending decision.
Mrs C was unable to provide the additional bank statements but I had a look at her detailed 
credit file from the time to see what Motorkitty might have found out had it looked into 
Mrs Cs finances in more depth. Her credit file showed:
Mrs C entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in June 2014;
oMrs C has provided evidence to show this was completed in April 2020;
She had 16 defaults on her account  14 from 2014, but 2 were from earlier in 2018;
oOnly one had been satisfied by the time of her Motorkitty loan application;
Mrs C had recently taken out two other high cost loans on which she owed over
£1,600. The combined monthly repayments were over £260;
She was in arrears with a short-term loan shed taken out the year before. 
Mrs C should have completed the 12 monthly payments of £75, but she still 
owed £428.
Based on the above, I thought it was likely Motorkitty would have seen that Mrs C was 
already struggling to manage her money at the time of the loan if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. So, I thought it was irresponsible for it to have approved further 
lending.I also considered whether Motorkitty acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. I 
acknowledged Mrs C said Motorkitty repossessed the car even though she sent evidence 
of both her and her husbands redundancy. Whilst I sympathise with the situation in which 
Mrs C found herself, I didnt seen any evidence to show Motorkitty did anything wrong by 
repossessing the car when it did.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, I found Motorkitty was 
irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mrs C, but that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
any other way.
Motorkitty didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs C responded to say, in summary, that she couldnt get the additional bank statements. 
But gave this service her authorisation to request the missing statements directly from her 
bank.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  as 
outlined in the provisional decision. 
I have now looked at the additional bank statements from the time of the lending. Although 
they were from a joint account, and it was evident that Mrs C also had at least one other 
account, the new statements also indicate that Mrs C was struggling to manage her money 
in the period leading up to the loan. 
They show:
Around £1,000 of direct debits and standing orders, excluding rent;
Multiple reversed payments;
Account fees and charges;
Payment to a debt collection agency;
An increasing overdraft.
So Im still satisfied that it was irresponsible for Motorkitty to have approved additional high-
cost lending.
Based on this, and the fact that Motorkitty provided no additional information, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creative Finance Corp Ltd (trading as Motorkitty) 
should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this capital amount;oIf this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Motorkitty should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs C;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file regarding the loan, 
up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Motorkitty to take off tax from this interest. Motorkitty 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman