DRN-3136542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly handled the 
settlement of a claim made under their home insurance policy.
As Mr H has led the complaint with our service, Ill refer to him throughout. Any reference to 
AXA includes that of its agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Following a burglary, Mr H contacted his home insurer AXA. And it considered and 
accepted the claim. 
A dispute arose between Mr H and AXA around the settlement for jewellery items 
that had been stolen. AXA said it could replace items through its jewellery service on 
a like for like basis. So, it offered a voucher to Mr H to allow him to do this. And AXA 
said it was its decision to do this in line with the policy terms.
Mr H has said the majority of the jewellery items were irreplaceable heirlooms from 
his and his partners late parents. And that Mr and Mrs H never wore them. He 
instead requested AXA cash settle the claim.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint it would be fair to provide a cash 
settlement instead of insisting on replacement. And that AXA should do so at the 
discounted rate it wouldve received. 
AXA disagreed, saying it can offer a direct replacement of the items, and the policy 
specifically states where it can replace it is its own discretion to do so. And it said the 
policy terms do not state that a cash settlement will or should be considered. AXA 
has also raised concerns about the commercial impact of policyholders electing to 
take cash settlements.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The dispute in this case comes down to whether AXA has fairly chosen to replace the 
jewellery items in question, instead of providing a cash settlement as Mr H has requested.
Ive begun by looking at the policy wording. Under the heading How we will settle your 
claim it says:
When settling your claim we have the following options available to us and we will 
decide which is most appropriate;
Repair
Replace
Rebuild
Payment
We may offer to repair, replace or rebuild any loss or damage through one of our 
approved suppliers
It goes on to say:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we 
agree to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the discounted 
replacement price we would normally pay
From this, it seems clear to me that the method of settling a claim is at AXAs discretion to 
determine what is most appropriate. And that its policy allows for cash settlements even 
where it can offer a repair or replacement, providing the payment wouldnt be greater than 
the discounted replacement price AXA wouldve paid.
So, AXAs decision to provide a voucher to Mr H to settle this claim is in line with its policy 
terms. Just as providing one of the other methods listed above would be in line with the 
terms too  including the offer of a cash settlement. 
Theres nothing unreasonable or unusual about these terms. The above is common in 
insurance policies of this nature. So, I dont think the offer of vouchers is unfair in and of 
itself.
But, in this case, Mr H has asked that one of the other settlement options listed in his policy 
is provided instead  a cash settlement. So, Ive needed to decide whether AXA has acted 
fairly and reasonably by declining to provide a cash settlement in this case. And I dont think 
it has. 
As above, the terms of the policy say AXA will decide the most appropriate method of 
settlement. In doing deciding what is most appropriate, Id expect AXA to take into account 
the specific circumstances of each particular policyholder. And bear in mind whats 
reasonable for both it and that customer when choosing how to settle the claim. 
In this case, Mr H has been clear that the stolen jewellery items were heirlooms and 
irreplaceable. He has explained he and his partner dont wear the items, and so getting new, 
like for like items wouldnt be of great use to him. In these circumstances, I can understand 
why items of such sentimental value could lead to Mr H to instead request a cash settlement. 
And I think Mr H has been clear with AXA throughout in his reasoning for this request. 
In relation to AXA, the policy does make it clear this is an option it could take. And this is in 
line with other such policies on the market. The terms make it clear that AXA will provide a 
cash settlement which ensures it isnt out of pocket  it would be settling the same amount it 
would be if the items were being replaced. 
So, on balance, in looking at whats the most appropriate option I think Mr Hs request for a 
cash settlement for the jewellery items is a reasonable one in the circumstances  and its a 
reasonable suggestion that the most appropriate settlement in this case. It follows that I think AXA has acted unreasonably by not allowing this.
AXA has argued that the items can largely be replaced using its jewellery service. Mr H 
hasnt disputed that AXA could replace the jewellery with similar items, simply that they 
shouldnt in the circumstances. I think AXAs ability to replace the items doesnt change 
anything in this case, in line of its obligation to consider what is most appropriate. 
AXA has also raised concerns about the commercial impact of policyholders electing to take 
cash settlements. I understand this is a factor within its decision making, but again, this 
factor doesnt override AXAs obligation to treat customers fairly or reasonably.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I am upholding this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Pay Mr and Mrs H a cash settlement for the jewellery items in question. It can do so 
to the value of the discounted replacement price it wouldve paid.
Pay Mr and Mrs H 8% simple interest*  calculated from the date it offered jewellery 
vouchers until the date of settlement. This is to account for the period of time theyve 
been without the cash settlement in question.
* If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman