DRN-3355068
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty and that her credit file has 
been badly affected by what Santander has reported to credit reference agencies. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss Hs account changed from a graduate account to an everyday account 
 this meant Miss H started incurring overdraft fees on her account for the continued use of 
her overdraft facility. Miss H complained to Santander that the fees applied to her overdraft 
caused her financial difficulty. Santander said all charges were applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. Santander says it assisted Miss H when she contacted it by 
refunding fees and setting up a repayment plan. 
Miss H was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and thought that Santander should have stopped charging overdraft 
fees from 1 January 2021 as by this point it was clear Miss H was in financial difficulty and 
hadnt seen a credit balance in a significant period of time. 
Santander agreed to make an offer in-line with our adjudicators view. It said that it would:
Re-work Miss Hs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from 1 January 2021 onwards are removed.
That the refund totaled £223.66 and that 8% simple interest would be added to that 
on the settlement date. 
That the balance that Miss H owes Santander is £1,261.25 and that the refund would 
be applied to this and her credit file would be adjusted as appropriate. 
Miss H didnt accept the offer and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. 
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that by 1 January 2021 
Santander shouldve done more for Miss H as by this point it ought to have been apparent 
that Miss H was in financial difficulty  a cursory look at her bank statements showed she 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time, she had 
exceeded her overdraft limit on more than one occasion and there was very little money 
coming into the account. 
Santander have told us that Miss H wouldve still been left with an outstanding debt, once all 
adjustments had been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft from 1 January 2021 and that it would amend her credit file as 
appropriate to reflect this.  
So while Miss H has been left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Santander 
has done what Id normally expect it to do here. What Miss H was left with to repay are the 
funds which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with.
I understand that Miss H is concerned about the information that Santander has reported 
about the management of her account to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to and 
the impact this has had on her credit report. But Santander has a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) it 
subscribes to is factually accurate and it has no control over the way the CRAs present that 
information. Santander has already confirmed it would adjust Miss Hs credit file as 
appropriate if she decides to accept the settlement and providing the information it reports is 
factually accurate I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss H to decide whether 
she wishes to now accept Santanders offer. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman