DRN-4278630
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (C&G) dealt with a claim under his pet insurance policy and the cancellation of the 
policy.
What happened
Mr T took out a pet insurance policy for his dog in December 2022. This was done through a 
price comparison site.
When making the application, Mr T was asked about the dogs breed and given a choice of 
three options. They were Breed, Cross-Breed and Mongrel. He opted for Mongrel. He was 
then asked what size the dog would be when fully grown. The options were small (up to 
10kg), medium (10-20kg) and large (over 20kg). He chose medium size.
After he made a claim under the policy, C&G noticed that according to the claim form the 
dog weighed 23kg and so was a large mongrel instead of a medium one. 
C&G said Mr T had made a misrepresentation as to the dogs weight when taking out the 
policy. It said if it had been provided with the correct information, the premium would have 
been £35.43 a month instead of £18.56. It made a proportionate settlement of the claim 
reflecting the proportion by which the annual premium was underpaid as against the annual 
premium Mr T should have paid in the policy year if correct information had been given. 
Mr T cancelled the policy. C&G said he owed it £350.37 in respect of outstanding premiums 
after cancellation and an overpayment of the claim. Mr T paid that but complained that he 
had been overcharged.
As C&G didnt change its decision, Mr T brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He thought it was unfair for C&G to charge 
Mr T the higher premiums at cancellation after proportionately settling the claim. He 
recommended that C&G should recalculate the outstanding balance based on the original 
premiums payable.
Since C&G didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
C&G thinks Mr T made a misrepresentation when he answered that his dog was a medium 
mongrel when taking out this policy.
Ive looked at screenshots C&G say are representative of what Mr T would have seen at that 
time. On balance, I find that Mr T didnt take reasonable care when answering this clear 
question about the size of the dog. I say this because:
The dog was over 6 years old when the policy was taken out and so he was fully 
grown.
According to clinical records he had weighed over 20kg since 2019.
On balance, I think the most appropriate answer to this question would have been large 
mongrel.
C&G has provided evidence that shows if the question been answered correctly, theyd still 
have provided cover but charged a higher policy premium.
This means Im satisfied that Mr Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
C&G hasnt been clear in how theyve classified Mr Ts misrepresentation here. I consider it 
to have been a careless misrepresentation - rather than deliberate or reckless. I say this 
because I believe it to have been a mistake by Mr T rather than an attempt to deliberately 
misrepresent the size of the dog he wanted to insure. 
Ive then looked at the actions C&G can take in accordance with CIDRA. As a claim had 
been made here, under CIDRA, C&G was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. C&G 
did that and deducted a percentage of the underinsurance amount from the claim. 
The key point is that CIDRA doesnt give insurers the right to charge an additional premium. 
So, C&G shouldnt have required Mr T to pay the increased premium instalments on 
cancellation. This isnt listed as an option under CIDRA in this scenario.
The policy says the full annual premium will be due on cancellation if a claim has been 
made. I therefore accept that it would be reasonable for C&G to claim from Mr T the 
remaining premiums due for the policy year at the original monthly rate.  
Putting things right
To put things right I think C&G should refund to Mr T the amount by which it increased his 
premium as a result of the error in specifying the dogs size. 
As Mr T has been unfairly deprived of the use of that sum, I also think C&G should add 
simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date Mr T paid that sum to C&G to the date 
it makes the payment to him. HM Revenue & Customs requires C&G to deduct tax from this interest. C&G must give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr T asks for one.
.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman