DRN-3405263
The complaint
Mr S has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In June 2014 AvantCredit provided Mr S with a loan of £1,200. The loan was repayable over 
18 months and the monthly repayments were £110.83. The loan was repaid in May 2015.
In November 2015 Mr S took out another loan from AvantCredit. Mr S said the purpose of 
the loan was to consolidate his debts. He borrowed £3,100 repayable over 48 months and 
the monthly repayments were £127.61. That loan was repaid in September 2016.
Mr S complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans. Our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part. She thought AvantCredit was wrong to have 
offered the second loan to Mr S. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loan 1
Before granting this loan, AvantCredit verified Mr Ss income figure using a standard industry 
tool. It found his average net monthly income was £984. 
AvantCredit carried out a credit search. The credit search showed Mr S had no outstanding 
debt at the time and he wasnt using an overdraft facility on his current account. So, I dont 
think there was any adverse data that should have led the lender to carry out further checks 
or think there was a risk the repayments wouldnt be sustainably affordable. In my opinion 
these checks were proportionate give the value and term of the loan; the stage in the lending 
relationship and the fact the monthly repayment was a low proportion of Mr Ss net monthly 
income.
So like the adjudicator, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about this loan. 
Loan 2
Again AvantCredit verified Mr Ss income figure which was now £1,650.
Its credit search showed that Mr S then had outstanding debt of £9,380 and he was very 
close to his overdraft limit. Hed opened four new credit accounts in the last three months. 
He was paying around £636.42 a month in total on his existing credit commitments. I think 
this ought to have caused AvantCredit some concern as it appeared Mr Ss finances might 
have become strained in the relatively short time since hed taken out Loan 1 and that any 
additional lending might not be sustainable. So, Id have expected AvantCredit to gather 
some more detailed information about Mr Ss finances before it agreed to lend to him, for 
example, by asking for bank statements or similar. 
Although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to uphold Mr Ss complaint. In order for Mr Ss complaint to succeed, I need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown 
AvantCredit that there was a real risk Mr S wouldnt be able to afford the repayments 
sustainably.
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would have shown. 
Mr S has sent us a bank statement for the month before he took out the loan. It shows that in 
October 2015 he was incurring unplanned overdraft fees and some direct debits had been 
returned. Hed also taken out two short term loans that month. There were also some 
gambling transactions. 
I think if AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that Mr S 
had become over-reliant on credit he couldnt afford and he was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably afford the new loan repayment over a four year period. I dont think AvantCredit 
treated Mr S fairly in approving this loan.
I appreciate that the purpose of the loan was said to be debt consolidation. Mr S could have 
used the £3,100 loan to repay some of his short-term loans which in turn could have 
reduced his credit commitments going forward. However, AvantCredit didnt pay off any of 
these loans directly. So, it couldnt be sure it wasnt putting him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall indebtedness. The stated purpose of debt consolidation isnt enough 
in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly provided or that it proved helpful in the 
event to Mr S.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Mr S with 
this loan. 
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in 
respect of Loan 2, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding 
debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not 
able to buy the debt, it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2;
treat any payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount;
If Mr S has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr S; and
remove any negative information about Loan 2 from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman