DRN-2594525
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining on behalf of herself and her late husband, Mr M, about how Santander 
UK Plc (Santander) sold them a payment protection policy (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr and Mrs Ms names in 1999. 
The policy was taken out during a meeting some years after Mr and Mrs M took out their 
mortgage. The policy provided both Mr and Mrs M with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The monthly cost of the policy was £6.33 and the monthly benefit was £106, 
split 70/30 between them. This would have been paid for up to 12 months for each claim.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld because they thought it 
unlikely Mrs M could ever have made a successful claim for unemployment. Santander 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contested or incomplete, as some of it is here, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words what I think most likely happened at the time, 
taking into account the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
The main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
M is worse off as a result. That is, would she and Mr M have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs M says she and Mr were told they had to have the PPI if they wanted the additional 
borrowing theyd applied for. I dont need to make a finding about whether or not Santander 
presented the policy as optional, because I have another reason for upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Santander says that this was an advised sale. This means that, in recommending the policy, 
it needed to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ms needs. I do not think it was suitable based 
on Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale. I say this because:
Mrs M told us that in 1999 she had two part time jobs  one for 10 hours a week and the 
other for 12. The eligibility criteria say that Mrs M had to be employed for more than 16 hours 
a week. And to make a claim, she had to be entirely without work.
Im not persuade the policy was suitable for Mrs M. Theres nothing in the paperwork that 
specifically says at least one of Mrs Ms jobs had to occupy her for more than 16 hours, so it 
seems she was eligible for the policy. But to make a successful claim, shed have to have 
lost both jobs at once. The jobs were with very different types of employer  and it seems 
unlikely to me Mrs M would have lost both at the same time. 
Santander said it would reconsider Mrs Ms complaint if she could provide some evidence of 
the hours she worked in 1999. Mrs M has tried to do that but hasnt been able to get any 
information from her employer. She did send us a contract from some years later where her 
hours were, she says, increased to 20. And shes been consistent all the way through her 
correspondence with us that she fewer than 16 hours a week for either employer. I see no 
reason to doubt her recollections.
I think that one of the main reasons Mr and Mrs M might have agreed to buy PPI was to 
provide them with some protection if either of them lost their jobs. And I think that if Mr and 
Mrs M had realised  because Santander drew their attention to it  that one of the main 
benefits of the policy was unavailable for Mrs M, then they may well have not bought it.
It follows that, on balance, I think this policy was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs M and the estate of the late Mr M in the position theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy was cancelled many years ago. So Santander 
should:
Pay Mrs M and the estate of the late Mr M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr or Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay the redress 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman