DRN-3498736
The complaint
Mr W has complained about ReAssure Limiteds administration of his personal pension.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr Ws pension transferred from a provider Ill refer to as L to 
ReAssure. Mr W and his employer were making contributions to Mr Ws pension, and two 
months contributions were accidentally sent to L after the transfer completed. However, L 
was able to identify this and in November 2020, it told ReAssure that the contributions would 
be redirected to it.
Following this, Mr W noted that most of the contributions paid since then hadnt been applied 
to his pension. Mr W complained in January 2021. In February 2021 ReAssure responded, 
explaining that it had received all the contributions but had to apply these to his account 
manually and it would take some time. It offered Mr W £100 and assured him that the 
contributions would be applied from the date received and he would not be financially 
disadvantaged.
Unhappy with ReAssures progress, a few months later Mr W made a further complaint. 
ReAssure responded in June 2021 explaining it was working on applying the contributions to 
his account, but it couldnt confirm when this would be completed. It offered another £100 for 
the inconvenience caused.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service as he was concerned about the time taken by 
ReAssure to apply the contributions to his pension.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He noted that a significant number of contributions 
had yet to be applied to Mr Ws pension, over a year after the problems had first arisen. He 
thought this was causing Mr W significant distress and inconvenience, particularly as he was 
approaching retirement. The investigator recommended that ReAssure should pay Mr W an 
extra £200 (£400 in total) and that Mr Ws pension should be dealt with as a priority. 
ReAssure didnt accept this so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. 
ReAssure thought the £200 already paid to Mr W was sufficient compensation for the delays 
 it said it was dealing with Mr Ws pension contributions as quickly as possible.
Mr W told the investigator that ReAssure had contacted him since our involvement to confirm 
the missing amounts but its figures werent correct  he said he was still missing 
contributions totalling over £12,000 from his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ws pension, as far as he is able to see online, does not currently 
reflect its true value. ReAssure is in the process of manually adding in contributions that 
have been made over the last 18 months and Mr W has most recently said that over £12,000 
is missing from his account. Mr W has also told us that hes asked his employer to provide 
evidence of the contributions that have been made to ReAssure  so there should be no 
reason why ReAssure isnt able to ensure the pension account balance is correct.
It isnt exactly clear why the matter is taking so long to rectify. ReAssure initially said that 
payments had to be applied manually and took five days to appear in the account online. But 
that doesnt explain why so many contributions remain missing from Mr Ws account. Or why 
its taken such a long time to rectify this. In a letter to Mr W dated 3 May 2022, ReAssure 
said that it experienced an issue applying the 18 November 2020 contribution which meant it 
had to be applied manually. And as ReAssure is required to apply contributions in a 
sequential order, it took it longer to apply the next contribution in the sequence, which has 
resulted in a knock-on effect. But I still dont think this explains the significant delay  as Ive 
said, its had over 18 months to put the matter right. I also acknowledge that at various 
points ReAssure has asked Mr W for information relating to his pension, but Mr W has 
provided what was required promptly. So I dont think this has been holding things up.
ReAssure says it is doing everything it can to apply Mr Ws contributions to his account as 
soon as possible. And I would expect ReAssure to ensure that it continues to prioritise the 
matter. Mr W is approaching retirement; although he isnt expecting to retire until 2024 it isnt 
unreasonable that he wants to understand the value of his pension and how much income 
he can expect to receive from his plan. So, it is imperative that the issues are resolved as a 
matter of urgency.
In terms of compensation, ReAssure offered Mr W £200 in total in June 2021. Over a year 
has passed since then with little progress. And it is clear to me that the matter continues to 
cause Mr W distress and inconvenience, particularly in light of his looming retirement. So, 
I think that ReAssure should pay Mr W an extra £200 to compensate him for this.
Im surprised that ReAssure didnt accept the investigators view on this point. While I accept 
that ReAssure is going to ensure that Mr W isnt financially disadvantaged  the missing 
contributions will be applied from the date they were paid  I think it shows a lack of 
understanding on its part about the very real concerns Mr W has about his pension and the 
impact the issues have had on him. And I should point out that while Im awarding extra 
compensation to Mr W in settlement of this complaint  that is, up to this point in time  it 
doesnt prevent Mr W from raising a further complaint about future delays should the issue 
not be resolved in a timely manner.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr W for the maladministration of his pension contributions, ReAssure 
should pay Mr W an extra £200 (£400 in total) for the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr W £400 in total in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman