DRN-3829898
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about St Andrews Insurance Plcs (St Andrews) decision to decline 
their claim for damage to a garage door, and to cancel their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T contacted St Andrews to make a claim for damage to their garage door. 
St Andrews declined the claim. It says the issue was caused by mechanical breakdown due 
to wear and tear, which isnt covered by its policy. It says Mr and Mrs T then told it a 
wheelbarrow had impacted the door causing the damage. St Andrews arranged for the 
damage to be inspected. Its inspector found the damage was the result of wear and tear 
over time and wasnt accidental damage as claimed. 
Mr and Mrs T sent St Andrews a quote for the repairs from an independent contractor. This 
included a handwritten section that indicated the cause of the problem was impact damage. 
St Andrews spoke to the contractor. It confirmed the cause of the problem was wear and 
tear, not impact damage. And that the problem could not have been caused by the impact 
damage in the way Mr and Mrs T had claimed. 
St Andrews says the contractor was asked by Mr and Mrs T to confirm the damage was 
caused by an impact, so the claim could be authorised. The contractor refused which is why 
it says they added a note to the quote. St Andrews subsequently wrote to Mr and Mrs T to 
decline their claim and cancel the policy for breach of the fraud condition. 
Mr and Mrs T complained, but St Andrews maintained its decision. They contacted our 
service and asked that we look into the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. 
He says St Andrews behaved fairly when declining the claim and cancelling the policy for the 
reasons it gave. He thought Mr and Mrs T had added a note to their contractors quote to 
influence St Andrewss claim decision. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy terms under the General Conditions section say:
Fraud: The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the 
honesty of our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly:
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a lower
premium or on better terms; or
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your 
policy; then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and 
we:
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim;
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act;
will retain any premium you have paid
Ive read the letter provided by St Andrewss surveyor. This says the garage door is old and 
well used. It says the cones and cables are broken, the wheel is broken and there is a small 
dent in the door. The surveyor concludes the damage is age related and not the result of a 
single insured event. In the report the surveyor also says the small dent in the door is not 
consistent with being struck by a wheelbarrow. It explains the door mechanisms wheel, 
cones and cable have failed due to their age   
Ive also read the information Mr and Mrs T sent to St Andrews from their contractor. There 
is a handwritten section on one of the pages. The quotes are otherwise typed. The 
handwritten section says:
Note: Due to impact of the accidental damage to the face of the door spindle got dented and 
damaged when the client attempts to open the door the cable and spring has been 
damaged.
St Andrews says this section looked out of place and this is why it spoke to the contractor. 
The contractor provided a copy of an email exchange with Mr T. Ive read these emails. Mr T 
asks the contractor to contact him to discuss what happened with the garage door. The 
contractor responded to say the broken parts failed due to wear and tear because of their 
age. The email says, we simply CANNOT state that issues with the existing door have been 
caused by the initial impact damage. 
The email thread continues with Mr T explaining he is disappointed with the service provided 
by the contractor. He says the impact damage meant that force had to be used to open the 
door. He says its this that caused the cable to break. Mr T then asks for an appointment so 
he can show the contractor how this occurred. 
The contractor responded to confirm the damage was the result of wear and tear. It says, 
we will under NO circumstances put ourselves nor the company in a position of perjury by 
claiming issues with garage doors are caused by anything other than the root issue of the 
problem  in this case age related wear and tear, not only is this immoral it is fraudulent.  
Mr and Mrs T later told our investigator that the handwritten note on the contractors quote 
had been added by their son for information. This was not an attempt to make a fraudulent 
claim. They say it was their sons mistake that he had referred to them as the client in the 
note.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy doesnt cover age related wear and tear as an insured cause. This 
exclusion is repeated in several places throughout the policy document. The expert opinion 
from St Andrewss surveyor and Mr and Mrs Ts contractor is that the damage was the result 
of age-related wear and tear. I think the expert opinion provided as to how the damage 
occurred is persuasive. Because of this I think St Andrews behaved fairly when declining Mr 
and Mrs Ts claim. 
I note Mr and Mrs T have supplied a quote from another contractor that indicates impact damage was the cause of the damage they claimed for. However, Im not persuaded to 
accept this over the more detailed opinion provided by St Andrewss surveyor and that of the 
first contractor Mr and Mrs T approached. 
Ive also thought carefully about whether it was fair for St Andrews to cancel Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy for a breach of the fraud term. I think it was. I acknowledge their comments about the 
reason for the handwritten note. But I think it was reasonable for St Andrews to consider this 
an attempt by Mr and Mrs T to influence the outcome of their claim. The note appears as 
though it was written by the contractor. There is nothing in the note to advise this had been 
written by Mr and Mrs T or their son. And its clearly very different to the contractors view of 
how the damage occurred.  
In summary I dont think St Andrews behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ts claim and cancel the policy for the reasons it gave. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman