DRN-1772474
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Telefonica Insurance S.A. has dealt with an insurance claim 
she made on her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B made a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy in April 2019. She was given a 
refurbished replacement phone. In June 2019, this phone stopped working. She called 
Telefonica to make another claim.
Telefonica didnt agree to deal with the claim. Miss Bs policy stated that if a replacement 
phone was faulty, a policyholder needed to notify Telefonica within 14 days. But it said Miss 
B had told it shed noticed that her phone wasnt working properly a few weeks before. So it 
didnt think Miss B had reported the fault in time within this period. And it said if the fault 
occurred outside of the 14 day period, a policyholder would be directed to the network 
provider to make a claim under its warranty. So Telefonica told Miss B shed need to get a 
new phone under the network providers warranty from a phone shop.
Miss B said she tried to get a new phone from the shop shed been directed to, but it said it 
didnt offer replacement phones. So she complained to Telefonica and asked us to look into 
her complaint.
Telefonica considered Miss Bs complaint. It said it thought itd correctly advised Miss B to 
go down the warranty route. But it said if she hadnt done so, it was prepared to look at the 
phone. And if the claim was covered by the policy, it would repair or replace her phone. Miss 
B didnt take any further action with Telefonica at this point and didnt send in her phone for it 
to consider.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought Telefonicas 
offer to look at the phone was fair and reasonable. She didnt think Telefonica needed to do 
anything more.
Miss B disagreed with the investigator. She said given all the misinformation shed been 
given by Telefonica and the hardship this has caused her, she wanted her complaint looked 
at. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I reviewed the information on file. I noticed that Miss B had also complained to her network 
provider at the same time she complained to Telefonica. In its response to Miss Bs 
complaint, the network provider had offered Miss B a replacement phone. So I asked our 
investigator to check with Miss B whether or not this phone had been received. And if it had, 
to find out what she wanted to resolve her complaint, given it appeared she had a new 
phone.
Miss B said she did get a replacement phone from the network provider. But this too was 
faulty. And when she made a claim for that phone, it was turned down because itd been given as a gesture of goodwill. So she paid out for another handset. She stopped making 
payments for her phone bill, which has impacted her credit file. She would like the adverse 
information removed from her credit file and a new phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I  think Telefonica has 
treated Miss B fairly. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that I cannot look into Miss Bs concerns about the impact of not 
paying her phone bill on her credit file. Her contract is with her network provider and its to 
this company that she pays her monthly bill. Its also her network provider that registered 
information about her payment history on her credit file. 
The network provider isnt a business we can generally consider complaints about. 
Telefonica is a separate business to the network provider and isnt responsible for how it 
handles Miss Bs account. If Miss B is still unhappy with how the network provider has 
recorded her payment history, shell need to contact the relevant ombudsman scheme. 
Ive summarised the background of this complaint based on what I know about the 
circumstances of it. Ive thought carefully about how Telefonica responded to Miss Bs 
concerns and whether it treated her fairly.
Its clear Miss B was given a replacement phone when Telefonica settled her first claim in 
April 2019. I can see a new claim was made in mid-June 2019 because Miss B said this 
phone wasnt working. She was directed to follow the warranty process and given a proof of 
exchange as evidence to show the phone shop when she went to get a new phone. So it 
seems most likely to me that she was directed to a phone shop to get a new phone. She 
says the phone shop wasnt able to do this for her, which I appreciate wouldve been 
frustrating.
Telefonica wrote to us a few days later to say if Miss B hadnt been down the warranty route, 
itd be prepared to investigate the cause of the fault and would repair or replace the phone if 
the cause was covered by the terms of the policy. I think this was a very fair and reasonable 
response on Telefonicas part. Although it doesnt appear our investigator put the offer to 
Miss B at that point. 
Two days after Telefonica made this offer, the network provider offered Miss B a 
replacement phone. Miss B says she accepted this replacement and was given a 
replacement phone. At this point, she was effectively in the position she wouldve been in if 
Telefonica had not just assessed, but also accepted and settled her claim. 
Miss B says this phone is also faulty and that because a claim she made for this phone has 
also been turned down, shes had to buy a new phone. Miss Bs previously told us she had 
to buy a new phone when she was sent to the phone shop in mid-June. So it isnt clear if 
shes referring to that phone or another new one she needed to buy following the 
replacement of the phone by the network provider. 
Miss B hasnt made a complaint to Telefonica about a rejected claim for the phone replaced 
by the network provider though. So I cant look into this issue here. Miss B would need to 
make a new complaint to Telefonica before we can potentially help with it. 
Ive thought about whether or not Telefonica needs to pay anything towards the phone Miss 
B says she needed to buy in June. It seems the phone shop it directed her to couldnt help her. But I dont think it was reasonable for Miss B to simply buy a new phone at that point, 
without getting back in touch with Telefonica to find out if there was another shop that could 
help her. And Telefonica offered to assess her phone to see if the loss was covered a few 
days later. So I dont think shed have been without a phone for an unreasonable amount of 
time. On balance, I think Telefonica has responded fairly to her concerns.
Overall, I dont think Telefonica needs to pay Miss B any compensation or contribution 
towards her replacement handset.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold Miss B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman