DRN-3446894
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), trading as Ingenious Pension 
Solutions, to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr A says he was approached by Pi in 2018, he says this contact took place as a result of a 
cold call. I understand Mr A was first contacted by a marketing agency that Pi used. But 
after this Mr A and Pi met to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand that 
Mr A was interested in releasing some tax-free cash from his pension. This was to renovate 
a property he owned overseas with a view to renting it out. 
Pi completed a fact-finding process to gather information about Mr As circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that: 
He was 58 years old and married. He had one dependent child who was aged 17. It 
was noted that Mr A expected his child to be dependent for another year. 
He was employed and earning around £33,000 a year. Mrs A was also employed
He owned a property overseas and planned to renovate this and rent it out. 
He had deferred DB scheme benefits. 
And he currently contributed to his employers defined contribution (DC) occupational 
scheme which was worth approximately £40,000. 
Pi also carried out an assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it said was 5 of 10 or low 
medium. 
On March 2018, Pi advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and 
invest the proceeds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were 
that Mr A wanted to:
Transfer the DB scheme into a personal pension to have flexibility when taking 
benefits and in retirement. 
Use the tax-free cash to finance an overseas property renovation with a view to 
renting it out.
Retire from work at age 60 and perhaps live overseas for part of the year. But he 
didnt anticipate take an income from his pension until aged 65.
The transfer proceeded in the same month. Mr A transferred £111,848 into the personal 
pension. Shortly after the transfer Mr A took a tax-free cash withdrawal of £27,962.00. The 
personal pension was invested in one of the product providers lower risk managed portfolios. 
Mr A complained in 2020 to Pi about the suitability of the transfer advice. He thought the 
advice was unsuitable for him and wasnt explained properly. And whilst there were some 
warnings about the transfer in the sale documentation, the general thrust of it was a very 
positive recommendation to transfer, despite the downsides to it.
Pi didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said Mr A was in an informed position about the transfer 
and it satisfied itself that he understood the advice. Pi said it gathered all the relevant 
information and it correctly advised Mr A to transfer. It thinks the complaint is frivolous. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Pi pay compensation. He thought that Mr A didnt have a high capacity, 
or tolerance, for risk, and he was likely to receive lower benefits due to the transfer. And his 
stated need to release some cash to renovate his overseas property wasnt a good reason 
for the transfer itself. And no other options to fund this were considered, such as borrowing 
or using some of Mr As disposable income (as he was already). And the information about 
the rental property was very brief, it wasnt clear if this was a developed plan to provide an 
income. 
 
Pi disagreed, saying that, in summary, if Mr A had used the tax-free cash to renovate his 
property he would have been in a position to retire at age 60. This is because of the rental 
income this property would have provided. So, whilst the transfer reduced his pension 
benefits it was still in his best interests to proceed with it. 
I can see there was some further correspondence after the opinion, but no new issues were 
raised. And the Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. So, the complaint has 
been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Pi carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr As pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr A was 58 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The critical yield required to 
match Mr As benefits at age 65 was 18.25% if he took a full pension and 11.65% if he took 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, was 
2.6% per year for six years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
low to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was over 11%, I think Mr A was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. 
And this was recognised in the suitability letter when Pi said, referring to the critical yield, 
that it was a high and unrealistic return and will not be achievable, based on your risk profile 
and the term to retirement, you should be aware that there is no guarantee of future growth 
and it is possible that your eventual pension may be reduced by transferring. 
Pi also gave an estimate of the funds required to purchase the annuity on the same basis as 
the DB scheme. If Mr A took all his benefits as pension he would need £298.969.09. If he 
took a reduced pension and some tax-free cash he would need £207,750.17. These are far 
in excess of what it is reasonable to expect Mr As transferred out fund to grow to. And they 
give a revealing insight in to the value of the benefits he was giving up. 
And Pi has provided cashflow models which it says show that Mr A wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these. The model Pi 
reproduced in the suitability letter shows that if Mr As fund grew at a 4.97%, which it said 
was reasonable for the fund he was to invest in, he would be able to withdraw on a similar 
rate form the DB scheme until his age 88, when the fund would be exhausted. Whilst this was just beyond his life expectancy, if Mr A lived a longer life, or the fund performed poorly 
at times, there was a chance that Mr As fund may run out. 
Also, as Pi will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, Pi has said 
that Mr A transferred as he had a need for tax-free cash and flexibility, and this need 
outweighed the financial disadvantages of the transfer. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
The main reason that this transfer was recommended was that Mr A wanted to access his 
pension fund and use the cash he could release to renovate a house he owned overseas. Pi 
has said that the predicted rental income, which was significant, would offset any loss in the 
guaranteed pension income Mr A would receive. 
Its worth noting that Mr A did withdraw the maximum tax-free cash. But I understand less 
than half of this was used to start the property renovations. The remainder was spent on his 
family. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs A wanted an income of £1,200 per month in retirement. 
Which is around £14,500 a year. 
Mr As DB scheme would have provided an increasing income of £7,092 per year if he took 
all of the benefits as a pension. Or he could have taken a lump sum of £28,368 and a 
pension of £4,255. He was also a member of his current employers DC scheme and hed 
built up a fund of £40,000 so far. Both him and his employer were contributing 14% of his 
salary into this. Its not recorded on the fact find, but I assume that Mr A would also receive 
some state pension provision. 
There is no record of any provision Mrs A may have had, in fact other than her name there is 
very little detail about her at all in the time of sale documentation. I think this is a serious 
failing. I cant see how Pi could have given M A proper advice on his retirement if it wasnt 
aware of what Mrs A would be entitled to. 
So, its not certain, but it seems reasonable to say that Mr As existing provision could 
provide the income he says he wanted. In summary he would get his is £7,000 a year from 
his DB scheme. Some state provision which can be around £9,000, and what his DC 
scheme would provide in six years time. So, I think its likely he had provision for what he 
wanted at retirement. Or very close to it.  
But Mr A couldnt take the benefits flexibly from the DB scheme. He had to take both the tax-
free cash and the pension at the same time. And, as Ive outlined above, if Mr A retired early, 
or took tax-free cash then the amount of income hed get would be lower. Although this isnt 
a penalty its to reflect either the amount taken as cash, or the longer time the pension would 
be in payment. I dont think Pi was providing clear fair and not misleading information when it 
said the reduction for early retirement was a penalty. 
So, what Ive got to consider here is was the proposed property development a good enough 
reason for Mr A to give up his guaranteed pension income. This needs to be considered in 
the context that the transfer would almost certainly reduce Mr As income from his pension. And the regulations are clear in that this was likely to be unsuitable. For this reason, it needs 
to be shown, in some detail, that the rental property benefits were very likely, or even certain 
to, outweigh the benefits he was giving up. 
Its not reasonable to recommend a transfer when it is just a nice to have or a good idea. 
And even if it was established that the rental property was a good way forward for Mr A, it 
also needs be established that he couldnt have funded the house renovations another way. 
Its clear that Mr A thought his property would provide a significant income when it was 
renovated. But there was no detailed analysis of this at the time of sale. There was no 
information how Mr A derived the estimated income and no consideration of any costs he 
would expect to pay, such as ongoing maintenance. 
Pi has essentially said that it looked at photographs of the property which looked impressive. 
And it was made aware that it was in a tourist area. So, it should be able to provide a decent 
income. But I dont think there is anywhere near enough information here for it to be able to 
say that Mr A should have given up his guaranteed pension income to fund this. 
And there was also no consideration about how Mr A could have funded this any other way. 
It was noted he was spending his spare income on the property each month. So, its not 
clear why this spare income, which was around £800 a month, could not have been the 
basis, for example, to fund some borrowing. Again, this really needed to be explored before 
Pi could give advice on the DB transfer. 
I appreciate that this may have gone beyond what Pi could be reasonably expected to do, 
but if this was the case it should have said so, and not advised Mr A to transfer.  
Overall, I dont think Mr A required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also 
cant see evidence that Mr A had a strong need for variable income throughout retirement. 
This doesnt seem to have been discussed 
Im satisfied Mr A could have better met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at age 65. I think the guaranteed income would have been valuable to him and 
could have formed a core of his retirement income. I dont think his plans to rent his 
overseas property represented a good enough reason to transfer his DB scheme benefits. 
Death benefits
It was documented at the time of sale that Mr A preferred the death benefits of a personal 
pension. Although I dont think a genuine needed was established, again it was more of a 
nice to have. 
That said, death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pi explored to what 
extent Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A 
was married (he had children but they were very soon to be non dependent) and so the 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr A 
predeceased her. I dont think Pi made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr A. This 
was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow 
analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr A lived a long life.  
In any event, Pi should not have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Pi shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr As desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr A was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr A  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I can see that the scheme was underfunded and this was considered at the time of sale. I 
cant see that transfer was recommended for this reason though. And it was also noted that 
the employer was making catch up payments and the underfunding would be resolved in 
the future. So, the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mr A 
should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension  if he was. 
Suitability of investments
Pi recommended that Mr A invest in a number of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr 
A should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the ready access to some cash, flexibility, control and potential for higher 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr A. But Pi wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr A shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to try and pay for the renovations to his overseas property and the potential for 
higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Pi shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against Pi's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Pis advice. I say this because Mr A was an 
inexperienced investor with a low to moderate attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of Mr As retirement provision. So, if Pi had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr As need to fund his rental property were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Pi had 
explained that Mr A could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr A would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Pi should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr A whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr A.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pis unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.Pi must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Pi may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Pi receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pi to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules 
and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pi 
Financial Ltd to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pi Financial Ltd pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman