DRN-2517935
The complaint
Mr and Mr M complain they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by a company 
that has since been taken over by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a reviewable whole of life policy in 1993. The policy offered £44,782 
of life cover for a monthly premium of £25. The fact find document, completed at the time, 
shows their objective was to provide security for their family in the event of death. 
While the policy was intended to be reviewable, due to an administrative error these didnt 
take place. In 2012 Aviva offered to guarantee the policy benefits if Mr and Mrs M continued 
to pay the premiums that were originally agreed.  
A representative (who Ill refer to as F) acting on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf, complained to 
Aviva that the policy wasnt suitable for their needs at the time it was sold. F said a term 
assurance policy wouldve been more suitable, as Mr and Mrs M wouldve only needed 
cover until their son turned 18. F also suggested a term assurance policy wouldve offered 
better value for money, as the premiums wouldve been lower than what Mr and Mrs M had 
been paying and wouldve been fixed.
Aviva rejected the complaint because it was satisfied the policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ms needs at the time. As they remained dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs M referred 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied the available evidence 
indicated the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. He explained 
that there was no evidence to support that Mr and Mrs M had specifically required cover until 
their son turned 18. But he noted that the adviser had recommended term assurance, but 
this had presumably been turned down.
Unhappy with the investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs M have asked for their case to be 
considered by an ombudsman for a final decision. F said it was inappropriate for the adviser 
to present Mr and Mrs M with several products and ask them to pick one, especially as F 
considered the whole of life to be unsuitable. F suggested a whole of life policy wouldve 
been inappropriate in almost all circumstances unless Mr and Mrs M required cover for 
future inheritance tax or funeral costs, which they didnt. F also maintained that the policy 
was significantly more expensive than an equivalent term assurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether, based on all the available information, the adviser made a suitable 
recommendation based on Mr and Mrs Ms objectives at the time of the sale. 
Theres a degree of subjective judgment when an adviser makes a recommendation. 
Different advisers can reasonably make different recommendations when considering a 
customers demands and needs. Its not my role to substitute the advisers recommendation 
for what I may consider to be a slightly more suitable recommendation. And so with this in 
mind, Id have to be persuaded that the advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs M to conclude the policy had been mis-sold. Having looked at everything Im not 
persuaded this is the case. 
The fact find records Mr and Mrs M were looking for protection for their family in the event of 
death. They were married and had an 8-month old child at the time. While they had a 
mortgage, this was separately protected by an endowment policy.
F suggests that a reasonable recommendation wouldve been a term assurance policy that 
ran until Mr and Mrs Ms son turned 18. While I accept this could be a reasonable way to 
address their need for family protection, I dont agree its the only way. 
Theres nothing in the information to suggest that Mr and Mrs M asked the adviser for cover 
for a certain period. Indeed, F acknowledges that the suggestion of an 18-year term has 
come from them. As such, it was for the adviser to make a recommendation they considered 
best fit Mr and Mrs Ms need for family protection. 
While some people may wish to take out financial protection for their children until they reach 
a certain age (often 18 or 21), others may wish to ensure some protection for their family at 
any age. Similarly, even when Mr and Mrs Ms son had grown up, they could reasonably 
have wanted to ensure there was cover in place to protect each other. Theres no obvious 
end date for this type of family protection need. As such, I dont agree that whole of life cover 
is only suitable if a customer needs cover for a inheritance tax planning or to cover funeral 
costs. 
I accept that a whole of life policy was likely more expensive than a term assurance policy, 
but this doesnt by itself make the recommendation unsuitable. Whole of life cover offers 
different benefits (and risks) to a term assurance. As already noted, a whole of life policy can 
be suitable when cover is required for an unknown period. It also offers more flexibility than a 
term assurance policy. Premiums can be altered or paused during the life of the policy, the 
sum assured can be increased and it offers a potential investment return.  
Theres little detailed information from the time of the sale, which is not unusual given the 
amount of time thats passed since the sale took place. And so we dont know what was 
discussed. But the fact find document notes that in addition to the policy Mr and Mrs M took 
out, they were also recommended term assurance and income protection. It doesnt appear 
any other insurances were taken out at the time. But it may indicate that the adviser 
discussed the difference between cover taken out for a fixed period (term assurance) and 
cover for an indeterminate term (whole of life), and Mr and Mrs M took the cover that they 
felt best suited their needs at the time.  
Im also mindful that the policy has remained in force for 28 years. Had Mr and Mrs M only 
wanted protection for a fixed time Id have expected to see them making changes to their 
cover at some earlier time. The fact that theyve continued to pay for cover suggests to me 
they recognised they had some need for ongoing cover.  
While I appreciate Fs strength of feeling in this matter, overall, Im not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold the policy. Im satisfied the policy offered them the family 
protection they were seeking at a price they could afford. While I accept there were other 
ways they could have addressed their needs, Im not persuaded that the policy was wholly 
unsuitable. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were free to accept or reject the advisers recommendation and were provided with enough information about the policy to show how it 
worked including the key benefits and risks. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman