DRN-2280863
The complaint
Miss S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim she made 
for damage to her home under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S noticed her lights were flickering in her kitchen. Some weeks later she realised there 
was water damage to the light fittings and elsewhere in her home. She contacted UKI, 
saying she thought it might be storm damage. UKI said it would consider her claim.
UKI sent a representative to look at the damage: the surveyor thought that the water 
damage in the house was caused by a leaking roof  but that the cause was probably that it 
hadnt been properly installed a few years earlier. UKI said this wasnt storm related damage 
caused by a one off event, and that there was no storm on or around the date Miss S said 
the damage occurred. It wouldnt meet the claim.
Miss S complained. She said the surveyor was dismissive and had to be asked to look at 
some damage upstairs in her home. She felt the surveyor had made up her mind before 
looking at the damage  and that it cant have been caused by poor workmanship as the roof 
had been signed off by buildings control only about three years earlier.
UKI didnt change its stance, although it did say it was sorry the surveyor had upset Miss S.
Miss S asked us to review her complaint. Our investigator said that, if there was no storm, 
then Miss S didnt have a valid claim, so she couldnt ask UKI to do more about the claim 
than it already had. She did suggest UKI pay Miss S £75 to make up for the upset caused by 
the surveyor.
Miss S remains unhappy about UKI saying it wont meet her claim, particularly as she 
doesnt believe the roof would have leaked so soon after installation unless it had been 
damaged by a storm.
UKI doesnt think it should have to pay the recommended £75 compensation.
With both parties at odds Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I decide this complaint, it might help if I explain that insurance policies dont cover 
everything that might happen to a property  they only cover specific events, which are listed 
in the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions in Miss Ss policy. From what I can see, there was 
only one event which might apply to Miss Ss claim  storm damage. Im satisfied it was fair 
for UKI to consider Miss Ss claim as storm damage.
To make a successful claim, the first step is that Miss S needs to be able to show UKI that 
an insured event has occurred. In this particular claim that is that a storm caused the 
damage.  If Miss S does that, then the onus passes to UKI to show why it need not meet a 
claim.
Generally, that means I would look at three key questions before deciding whether or not a 
claim should be met. The first question is whether there was a storm in the period of time 
just before Miss S reported the damage occurred. The other two questions (was the damage 
typical of that we see after storms and was a particular storm the cause of this damage) are 
only considered if the first question is that there was a storm at the appropriate time. 
Miss Ss policy defines both a storm and some other extreme weather that might cause 
damage to buildings. I dont think Miss S has shown UKI the weather close to the date she 
made her claim met any of these definitions. UKI sent us some weather reports for Miss Ss 
location for the week preceding her claim. There werent any particularly strong winds during 
this week, nor was there a very high rainfall. There was some rain, but not enough to meet 
the definition in the policy. That means theres no basis upon which Miss S can make a valid 
claim for the damage to her property. 
As Miss Ss claim fails on this first point, I dont need to consider the other two questions. 
It also means I havent taken into account the comments Miss S made about the age of the 
roof and the building control approval  but neither have I looked in detail at the surveyors 
report.
It may be that damage was building up unnoticed in Miss Ss home for some weeks before 
she contacted UKI. Sometimes that sort of damage is covered by a buildings policy, but not 
in Miss Ss case, as she hadnt bought this type of cover. 
Our investigator did think UKI should pay Miss S £75 to make up for the surveyors attitude 
when they visited her home. Miss S had told us about how shed had to ask them to look at 
the internal damage and felt theyd made their mind up about the report before looking at the 
damage. She said she was upset by this. UKI says it doesnt think this is fair, as any claim 
that is declined can be described as a negative experience. I dont agree with that. The 
payment was recommended because the attitude of the surveyor upset Miss S  and I think 
thats different from the natural disappointment that comes with making an unsuccessful 
claim. So I think the £75 compensation is fair.
Putting things right
UKI has already apologised for the surveyors attitude: it should now pay Miss S £75 to 
make up for this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this decision in part, and I order UKI to pay Miss S £75 for the 
way the claim was handled. It does not have to meet the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman