DRN-3835619
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC have irresponsibly lent to her.
Mrs F is represented by her daughter in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mrs F herself.
What happened
Mrs F was approved for two Tesco credit cards which I will refer to as A and B. Mrs F 
applied for A in October 2015 and she was accepted with a £2,000 credit limit. Mrs F applied 
for B in October 2016 and she was accepted with a £1,400 credit limit. Mrs F made a 
complaint to Tesco that they had irresponsibly lent to her. She said that the account was 
used for gambling transactions and that the terms and conditions of the account were unfair.
Tesco did not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. They said that when she applied for the accounts, 
they looked at the information she provided on her applications and information from Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) and they accepted the applications based on both sets of 
information. They explained that they provided Mrs F with the terms and conditions for the 
accounts, which also explained potential charges and Mrs F agreed to the terms and 
conditions when she digitally signed the documents. 
Tesco explained they sent Mrs F letters to her home address when they were required to do 
so, confirming the status of the account and any action they may take such as applying any 
overlimit fees or late payment fees. Regarding Mrs F gambling with her credit card, Tesco 
said that without her explaining their circumstances with them, they were unable to make 
assumptions on a customers situation and as such they wouldnt contact someone 
regarding a legitimate transaction such as gambling transactions, when they were allowed, 
when Mrs F gambled on her Tesco credit cards.
Tesco said that they would expect Mrs F to contact them at her earliest convenience if her 
circumstances change which would impact her ability to maintain the account, so they 
couldve outlined the options available to her. But after reviewing Mrs Fs accounts, she did 
not contact them about this. Tesco said that they transferred the credit cards to a debt 
management company and they were within their rights to do so even though they were 
aware Mrs F was subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in September 2020. 
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. She said that after she had house repossessed, 
she had changed her name by deed poll prior to A being approved. As a result of this she 
wasnt on any electoral roll and under her new name, her credit file would have barely 
existed based on her being known by another name. She also complained how Tesco 
handled her complaint. 
Mrs F said that she had a gambling problem which started around 2013 and was habitual 
from that point onwards until 2020, at which time her indebtedness had escalated to around 
£25,000 across various products. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint. She said that while Tescos checks 
werent proportionate for A, reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have drawn their 
attention to the financial difficulty Mrs F appeared to have been having. She said even if 
Tesco had carried out more detailed checks, they wouldnt have highlighted what was 
causing the difficulty in question.
Our investigator said that when applying for B, Mrs F looked like she was struggling 
financially because her income was around £1,700 per month (£24,000 gross per annum) 
and in comparison, to her expenditure, Mrs F was spending around £1,050 on her housing 
costs. Mrs F was also spending around £300 on her other bills, including phone bills, council 
tax and food shopping. Our investigator said that further checks would show that Mrs Fs 
bank statements also showed that in the month prior to this lending being agreed, she spent
around £450 on gambling transactions. So reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to 
have demonstrated that Mrs F would not have been able to make her repayments 
sustainably over a reasonable period of time given the credit limit for B.
Tesco asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that both applications 
clearly showed a healthy financial situation for Mrs F. Tesco said that on both accounts, Mrs 
F passed their internal scoring card quite easily, and there were no obvious signs of financial 
difficulties. They said it would be entirely disproportionate (and entirely impractical) to expect 
firms to obtain bank statements and conduct an in-depth review where consumers have 
passed their assessment so comfortably.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about how her complaint was handled by Tesco. But as
complaint handling is generally not a regulated activity, it falls outside of my powers to rule
on how a business handles their complaints procedure.
Before agreeing to approve the credit to Mrs F, Tesco needed to make proportionate checks 
to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no 
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Tesco have done and 
whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Acceptance for A
Tesco said they looked at the information that Mrs F provided on her application and the 
information from the CRAs. They saw that Mrs F said she had £1,500 net monthly income 
and she was employed on £24,000 gross per annum. Tescos saw that Mrs F had no CCJs 
and was not bankrupt. But they saw she had one default. Tesco said that Mrs F passed their 
internal checks, so they agreed to accept Mrs Fs application for A and they approved a 
credit limit of £2,000. 
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about her limited credit history around the time she was 
accepted for A, based on her recently changing her name by deed poll. But despite her 
being known by her new name for only a number of months, this wouldnt mean that Tesco 
would only have a few months of data from the CRAs to go by. Changing a name would not reset a credit score or wipe out her previous credit history. This is evidenced by the data 
showing that Mrs F had previously defaulted in the past. 
Tesco have also provided our service with a letter they sent Mrs F regarding identification. 
This was dated the day after Mrs F applied for A. It shows that before they could complete 
the processing of her application, she needed to send them certain identification. I can see 
Mrs F responded with a certified copy of both her passport and her driving licence which 
showed the same address as they wrote to her. So although Mrs F may not have been on 
the electoral roll at this time, Im satisfied she passed the relevant identification checks after 
she sent Tesco her identification.
Because of the default, Tesco would have been aware that Mrs F had previously not 
maintained an agreement in the past. So Ive considered whether the checks that Tesco 
carried out prior to accepting her for A were proportionate. But Im not persuaded that they 
were and Ill explain why.
As Mrs F had defaulted on an account only a number of months earlier, Im persuaded that 
Tesco should have made further checks which would be proportionate to see if Mrs F would 
be able to maintain a credit limit of £2,000, based on her not being able to manage a 
previous agreement recently.
So for this reason, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Tesco should
have requested information from Mrs F to discuss her finances, to ensure that she had 
enough disposable income to be able to afford and sustain repayments to the credit card. 
For example, they could have rung Mrs F to discuss this, or as a proportionate check based 
on the recent default, they could have asked Mrs F to provide her bank statements to see if 
she was still in any financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether Tesco would have still approved A if they made further checks. 
Im satisfied that they would have done and Ill explain why. If Tesco would have contacted 
Mrs F as part of a proportionate check, its likely she would have been able to demonstrate 
that she was managing her outgoings, including any living costs and arrangements, such as 
her bills from her £1,500 a month income. I say this as Mrs Fs bank statements would show 
that she was not overdrawn on her bank account at any time in the previous three months 
prior to being accepted for A. And she often had a three figure positive balance in her current 
account prior to the application, despite Mrs Fs gambling. So it would appear she could still 
manage her finances whilst also gambling here, even though Mrs F has told us her gambling 
was habitual from 2013. 
So Im persuaded that Tesco would have still lent to Mrs F based on the information she 
would have likely given them if they had contacted her to ask about her committed 
outgoings, based on the recent default that was showing on her credit file. The credit limit 
was less than 10% of her gross yearly income she declared on her application and Tescos 
data showed she had no active unsecured debts at the time of the application for A.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may 
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender 
wont offer borrowing. Here, if Tesco had made further proportionate checks, Im persuaded 
that they still would have made a decision to lend, for the reasons Ive previously given, 
which in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
Acceptance for B
Tesco said they looked at the information that Mrs F provided on her application and the 
information from the CRAs. They saw that Mrs F said she had £1,700 net monthly income and she was employed on £24,000 gross per annum. So from the information that Mrs F 
provided, it would appear that she would have £200 a month more income than when she 
applied for A. They would be aware that there was no new adverse credit information 
showing on her credit file. 
Tesco will have also been aware how Mrs F was managing her credit for A. From the £2,000 
that Tesco approved on A, she rarely exceeded 50% of the credit limit. But thats not all 
Tescos data showed. Mrs F was often making higher payments than her minimum 
repayment. 
But Mrs F did make two late payments to her account, from when she was accepted for A, to 
when she applied for B. And B was accepted with a £1,400 credit limit. This was an increase 
on her credit limit of £2,000 on A by 70%. Given these factors and the recent default before 
A was approved, the late payments could be masking larger problems that Mrs F may not be 
able to manage her accounts properly.
So Ive considered whether the checks that Tesco did prior to opening B were proportionate 
considering what they knew about Mrs F and the amount of credit they approved. But Im not 
persuaded they were. I say this as Mrs Fs total unsecured debt at the time B was approved 
was £3,191, which was higher than when she was approved for A. As her limit for A was 
£2,000, this would mean she had also taken out unsecured debt with a third party also. This 
could show that Mrs F could be reliant on borrowings, even though she had not used her full 
credit limit on A. Once B was approved, it meant she had total credit lines opened through 
Tesco alone of £3,400, which would equate to slightly over 14% of her gross income. 
So for these reasons, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Tesco should
have requested information from Mrs F to discuss her finances, to ensure that she had 
enough disposable income to be able to afford and sustain repayments to the credit card. 
For example, they could have rung Mrs F to discuss this, or as a proportionate check based 
on the factors Ive mentioned above, they could have asked Mrs F to provide her bank 
statements to see if she was still in any financial difficulty. 
Mrs F have provided her bank statements for the time prior to B being accepted. In the three 
months prior to B being accepted, I can see that Mrs F appears to be in a better financial 
position than a year earlier, and Ill explain why. When Mrs F was approved for A, her 
balance was frequently in a positive three figure balance. But from July-October 2016, Mrs 
Fs balance is constantly in a positive four figure balance. Although there are frequent 
gambling transactions, there doesnt appear to be any obvious signs of financial difficulty 
here. 
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about her gambling. And she has said that she was 
habitually gambling from 2013-2020. Ive looked at Mrs Fs credit card statements. From 
between A being opened and being approved for B, it appears that there have been no 
obvious transactions to any betting companies. There is one transaction during this 
timeframe where she attracted a cash transaction fee, but its not clear what type of 
company this transaction is made to. But even if it was to a gambling firm, a singular 
gambling transaction would not alert Tescos to believe that Mrs F had a gambling problem 
from her credit card statements alone and that B would be used for gambling transactions 
moving forward.
If Tesco would have seen Mrs Fs bank statements, they would have seen frequent gambling 
transactions. And as part of a proportionate check, it may have been proportionate to 
request these. But Im persuaded that if Tesco had seen Mrs Fs bank statements, Im 
persuaded that they still would have made a fair lending decision to approve both A and B 
for Mrs F. And Ill explain why.The 2015 and 2016 statements do show gambling transactions. And there are several of 
these. But the bank statements show that at this time, the transactions appear to have been 
made from Mrs Fs disposable income. I say this, because at the beginning of Mrs Fs bank 
statements, covering transactions from 4 July-13 October 2015, her balance starts at 4p. Her 
closing balance on 13 October was £501.79. So despite the gambling transactions on this 
statement, Mrs F appeared to have enough disposable income to allow her to meet her 
essential spending and to also gamble with her disposable income. And maintain a three 
figure positive balance for the majority of this timeframe.
In 2016, Mrs Fs bank statement covering 14 July-13 October 2016 shows an opening 
balance of £1,442.98 and a closing balance of £1,589.82. The balance rarely drops below 
£1,000. So Im persuaded that despite the frequent gambling transactions which are shown 
within the statements here, that this would appear at this point, that Mrs F was using her 
disposable income to gamble and it didnt appear that prior to A or B being accepted that she 
needed to borrow to fund her gambling as this appears to have been met by her disposable 
income.
So Im persuaded that Tesco would have still lent to Mrs F based on the information she 
would have likely given them if they had contacted her to ask about her outgoings, based on 
the higher credit being approved, the two late payments and the default being approximately 
18 months prior to the acceptance of B. 
Tesco will have also seen that Mrs F paid roughly four times her minimum payment on A and 
had utilised roughly half of the credit limit prior to the acceptance of B. Mrs F had no new 
adverse credit information recorded on her credit file since she was accepted for A. And it 
appears that based on Mrs Fs bank statements prior to B that her financial position had 
improved over the year since A was approved. So Im persuaded that further proportionate 
checks would have resulted in Tesco still approving Mrs Fs application for B. And they 
would have made a fair lending decision to do so at that time. 
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Fs financial difficulties. I know she said Tesco didnt contact her. But 
Tesco did send communications via post to her. Typically, these included default sums, such 
as late payment or overlimit fees. And I can see from the information that Mrs F provided our 
service that Tescos have sent her the required notifications that they are obliged to do so. 
Tesco have since transferred the debt to a third party debt collection company. And Tesco 
are entitled to do so.
I know Mrs F believes that if Tesco never granted her the initial credit shortly after she had 
changed her name, that other companies would not have been able to see more information 
on her credit file. But as I mentioned earlier, by Mrs F changing her name by deed poll, this 
wouldnt wipe out her previous credit history under her previous name. Each lender would 
conduct their own checks. Mrs F has told us she now has over £20,000 of unsecured debt 
(and at one point it had escalated to around £25,000). And it appears that the majority of this 
was a result of extra lending at a later point by other lenders which caused Mrs Fs financial 
difficulty. So it follows I dont intend to ask Tesco to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Tesco responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing more to 
add. Mrs F did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman