DRN-3116108
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But in summary, its not in dispute that Mr M was contacted by a fraudster, 
who had intercepted an exchange of emails hed had with a solicitor, regarding the purchase 
of a property. The fraudster tricked Mr M into making a payment for £363,000 that Mr M 
thought was payment towards the property  but that was actually made to an account 
controlled by the fraudster.
Mr M had been communicating with his solicitors since March 2020, by email, regarding the 
purchase of a property. On 1 July 2020, Mr M received an email requesting payment, along 
with account details for where the payment should be made. Mr M has explained that as he 
was expecting to make a payment and as the email was received from the same email 
address, he believed the request to be genuine. But unknown to him at the time, fraudsters 
had intercepted the email communication between Mr M and his solicitor and had provided 
details for an account that was controlled by the fraudsters.
Believing everything to be genuine, Mr M visited a Barclays branch on 1 July 2020 to make 
the payment. Mr M has said that he told branch staff that the payment was for the purchase 
of a property and that a solicitor had instructed him to make the payment. Hes said he 
showed the branch staff the email hed received and that the branch staff typed the account 
details into the system and asked Mr M to check them. Mr M has said he recalls being asked 
if he was making the payment under duress, to which Mr M replied he was not. Mr M has 
said that at no point did anybody tell him that this could be a scam.
Barclays has said, due to the size of the payment, the branch manager took Mr M to a 
private room to discuss the payment. The branch manager said that he spoke to Mr M about 
fraud and scams and read a script. Following which, Mr M went ahead and made a payment 
for £363,000 to the account details he had been given. 
The following day Mr M has said he received a further email, telling him that he should recall 
the payment he had made, as there was a quarterly audit being carried out on the account 
and the funds couldnt be accessed. This email was also from the fraudster, but the email 
address differed to the genuine solicitors email address by one character. Mr M contacted 
Barclays on the same day to request the payment be recalled.
Barclays contacted Mr M around two weeks later to tell him it had made attempts to recover 
the funds, but it hadnt received anything from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the 
payment was made). On 4 August 2020, Barclays told Mr M that no funds remained in the 
beneficiary account and suggested he contact his solicitors. In the meantime, Mr M was still 
receiving emails from the fraudsters, pretending to be his solicitors.
Mr M visited his genuine solicitors premises on 5 August 2020, at which point the scam 
came to light, when the solicitors told Mr M they hadnt asked for any payment from him. 
Mr M raised the matter with Barclays. Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Barclays says one of those exceptions applies in this case, it says; Mr M 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine 
goods or services.
Barclays issued its final response in November 2020. Barclays reviewed Mr Ms complaint 
under the CRM code and upheld the complaint in part. This was because it said it could 
have done more to protect and advise Mr M prior to him making the payment. As it said the 
warning it gave in branch wasnt effective enough, as it did not prompt the customer to carry 
out further checks with the solicitor via telephone or in person. But it didnt agree that it 
should refund Mr M the full amount that had been lost, this was because it didnt think Mr M 
had carried out enough checks before making the payment and didnt think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing who he was paying was genuine.
Because of this Barclays considered it was 50% liable for the payment Mr M made, and it 
agreed to refund £181,500. Barclays also said that when Mr M raised the matter with it, it 
attempted to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank, but no funds remained. 
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary she said this because 
she thought Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. So she didnt 
think it was reasonable for Barclays to choose not to reimburse Mr M under the provisions of 
the CRM Code. The investigator said Barclays ought to refund Mr M the remaining amount 
he had lost as a result of the scam and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date 
Barclays decided not to uphold the complaint.
 
Barclays didnt agree with our investigators position. In summary it said that considering the 
value of the transfer, it would have expected Mr M to have contacted his solicitors by 
telephone to ensure the details were correct, rather than just relying on the email that had 
been received. It acknowledged it could have done more, but felt both it and the customer 
were responsible for the loss.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
explained to Barclays that my initial thoughts were that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint, broadly in line with the view reached by our investigator. In summary, this was 
because I wasnt satisfied Barclays had shown Mr M lacked a reasonable basis for belief 
when making the payment. Alongside this I also thought Barclays missed an opportunity to 
prevent the scam at the point Mr M made the payment.
 
Barclays didnt agree with my initial thoughts. In summary it said that due to the size of the 
payment it would have expected Mr M to have confirmed the account details with the 
solicitors prior to making the payment. It didnt think it was acceptable that Mr M did not 
conduct any checks. It added that it would have expected Mr M to confirm that he was 
paying an account that belonged to the solicitor, considering the name (of the account), did 
not match the solicitors. Alongside this it said that one letter was different in the email 
address from the fraudster, which would have indicated that it was not an email from the 
genuine solicitor.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im mindful that Barclays have said Mr M ought to seek reimbursement from his solicitors for 
the loss. I note that Mr M did raise matters with his solicitors, however they accepted no 
liability. Alongside this Mr M also sort counsel from another firm of solicitors, who Mr M has 
said advised him that what happened doesnt fall under a negligent behaviour on his 
solicitors part. Mr M hasnt been successful in recovering any funds through raising matters 
with his solicitor. But in any event, my decision here focuses solely on the actions of 
Barclays and whether it met its obligations when Mr M made the payment and when he 
reported matters to Barclays.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded Mr M the full 
amount he lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
 
- In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund Mr M the money 
he has lost.
Barclays, although admitting it could have done more to protect Mr M before he made the 
payment, argue that the following exception from the CRM Code applies. It argues;
 
- Mr M made the payment without a reasonable basis of belief that the person he was 
paying was the person they were expecting to pay and was legitimate.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about whether Mr M had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr M failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code and 
I dont consider Mr M lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I say this because; 
- Mr M wasnt aware of how email impersonation / intercept scams worked and hasnt 
previously been a victim to this type of scam. He was expecting to make a payment 
in regard to the property he was purchasing. The email, which contained the account 
details, appeared to come from the same email address he had been communicating 
with his solicitor on for many months.
- I have seen a copy of the emails from the genuine solicitor and the scammer. The 
email from the scammer providing the account details, in my opinion, is not too 
dissimilar in tone or style to that of the genuine solicitor, and I dont  think it would 
fairly and reasonably have caused Mr M any concern. 
- Barclays has said the account name, to which the payment was sent, was different to the solicitors. Mr M has said he thought this was just another trading name for his 
solicitors and as it had come from their genuine email it didnt raise any concerns. 
The email, in essence, provided the account details of where the payment was to be 
made to. Im mindful solicitors and / or businesses often have multiple accounts for a 
variety of reasons, and the accounts arent always necessarily in the name of said 
business and can be called something different. Overall, given the genuine and 
plausible feel to the email, alongside Mr M expecting to make a payment and being 
unaware of how email intercept scams worked, I cant say Mr M should have had any 
cause for concern or reason to be suspicious.
- Barclays argue that the email address from the fraudster was different. Ive seen that 
the email address used by the fraudster differed by only one letter. Considering this I 
dont consider it fair, reasonable or realistic for Barclays to expect its customers to 
identify such a minor discrepancy in an email address - particularly when a firm has 
not sufficiently alerted a customer to the possibility of a fraudster posing as a 
legitimate business in the middle of a chain of genuine email correspondence, using 
the same or a similar email address. I can understand, without detailed knowledge of 
how these scams work, why Mr M would have considered the email he received, with 
an instruction to make a payment, to be genuine.
- Barclays has also pointed to a warning the genuine solicitors provided in a footer of 
emails it had sent to Mr M previously, which advised that the solicitors wouldnt 
change bank details during the course of a transaction. Its important to note that the 
fraudsters emails did not contain the disclaimer. I dont think its unreasonable that Mr 
M didnt notice the absence of the disclaimer and I dont think the absence is 
remarkable. It not being present also means that Mr M wouldnt have read the 
disclaimer just before making the payment anyway, it seems the fraudster 
deliberately removed the disclaimer/didnt include the disclaimer in their email to 
maximise the chance of the scam succeeding. And in any event, and importantly, the 
disclaimer that was included in earlier emails talks about the fact the solicitor will 
never change bank details, but Mr M was not under the impression the bank details 
had changed, these were the first bank details Mr M had received. Im not persuaded 
the inclusion of the disclaimer, on earlier emails, means that Mr M didnt act 
reasonably, or made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the 
money was being sent to his solicitor.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Barclays has been able to establish that 
when Mr M sent the payment he did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Could Barclays have done anything else to prevent the scam? 
Ive also thought about the interaction Barclays had with Mr M, in branch, when the payment 
was made. And considered whether Barclays couldve done anything else to prevent Mr M 
falling victim to the scam. 
Having thought carefully about this and considering what was good industry practice at the 
time, I think Barclays could fairly and reasonably have taken further steps, which if it had of 
done would more likely than not have prevented the scam.
The payment Mr M was making, for £353,000, does appear out of character compared to 
how the account was typically run. While I think the branch manager, in taking Mr M to a 
private room to discuss the payment has made an attempt to ask questions about the 
payment. I dont think it went far enough. 
  I say that as Im satisfied Mr M has confirmed to branch staff the purpose of his payment 
was to pay a solicitor for the purchase of a new property, and Mr M has said he showed the 
branch staff that hed received the payment details by email. With this I think its fair and 
reasonable that the branch, should have then been on alert that Mr M could possibly be at 
risk of financial harm  given its knowledge of these types of scams and the prevalence of 
email intercept scams, which can often involve transfers of large sums, as was the case 
here. 
In response to what Mr M had told and showed it. Barclays could and should have brought to 
life what an email intercept scam would look and feel like. And to ensure that Mr M wasnt at 
risk of financial harm, suggested he contact his solicitor on a verified number (or in person) 
to confirm the legitimacy of the bank details he had been provided with. If Barclays had done 
this, and then asked Mr M, as I think it ought to have done, if he would like to make a 
call/visit his solicitors to confirm the details before going ahead with the payment, while 
emphasising that he was potentially at risk of losing all of this money - I think it more likely 
than not he would have taken this additional step to protect himself.
Ive considered that Barclays has suggested Mr M ought to have taken this step anyway. But 
Im mindful that Mr M thought he had received instructions from his genuine solicitor. I dont 
think it was apparent to him that a fraudster could intercept an email midway through a 
genuine exchange of emails and it didnt occur to him that there could be a risk. So I can 
fairly and reasonably understand why he wouldnt have thought it necessary to take this 
step, especially in the absence of a warning around how these scams typically feel and play 
out. Barclays, as the professionals here, couldve and shouldve given Mr M advice that I 
think more likely than not would have led to the scam being uncovered.
 
For clarity, my findings that Barclays ought to have prevented Mr M from losing £353,000 
have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint, given Im minded to decide Mr M 
shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the 
interest payable only.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than Barclays, that have ultimately caused the loss. 
But all things considered and in the circumstances, I think Barclays ought to have fully 
refunded Mr M under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it should fairly and reasonably 
refund the remainder of that loss now.
Putting things right
The CRM Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which 
as Ive explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think its fair that Barclays Bank UK PLC;
- refund Mr M the remainder of the money he lost, being £181,500
- pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman