DRN-2477133
The complaint
Mr B complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited hasnt valued his stolen 
moped correctly when dealing with a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs moped was stolen in January 2020 and he made a claim to his insurer. They offered 
him a valuation for the vehicle of £372, minus any deductions. Markerstudy initially said the 
excess was £500 but later said it was in fact £200. Mr B was unhappy with the valuation and 
made a complaint, saying he had bought the moped two years previously at a much higher 
price.
Markerstudy considered Mr Bs complaint and said its offer was fair, based on the value of 
the moped immediately before the loss happened. Mr B was unhappy with the response and 
asked our service to look at his complaint.
Our investigator agreed with Markerstudys valuation of the moped and didnt recommend 
that Markerstudy do anything more on the complaint.
Mr B disagreed, saying the settlement offered wasnt high enough. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
My role is to consider whether Markerstudy has applied the policy terms correctly and 
provided a fair valuation to Mr B. Having looked at the policy terms, I can see that 
Markerstudy says the most it will pay on a theft claim is the market value of the motorcycle 
before the loss.
The policy defines Market Value as:
The replacement cost of the motorcycleat the time of loss or damage compared with one 
of the same make, model and conditionthe market value will be assessed by an 
automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss. 
I think this term is quite clear that Markerstudy would only pay the replacement cost of the 
moped based on the valuations at the time of loss. I appreciate that Mr B bought the moped 
for a higher amount, but his policy doesnt provide cover based on the original purchase 
price. So, I wouldnt ask Markerstudy to increase the valuation solely based on what Mr B 
had paid when he bought the moped.
The valuation Markerstudy based the offer on is from an independent valuation guide. These 
guides are based on research of what the likely selling prices of vehicles were on a specific 
date, and this is likely to be the most accurate valuation evidence I have to consider on this 
complaint.
The valuation that Markerstudy obtained was £372 based on the vehicles specification. Ive 
checked another guide that our service uses and can see that market value shows as £602. 
Having looked at Mr Bs moped vehicle specification, Ive found that there are few similar 
models for sale but I cant find any sales that are near the offer Markerstudy made for the 
moped. They are all significantly higher in value and as much as (or higher than) the 
valuation given by the other guide.
I would generally give more weight to valuations from the guides, as these are based on 
extensive national research. There isnt very much information available for this type of 
moped to rely on. So, Ive considered the two available valuations, as well as private sales 
for similar mopeds.
I cant see that Markerstudy relied on any other information to value the moped apart from 
one guide. Other information available indicates a higher value. So, I dont consider that 
Markerstudy has shown the amount offered is a fair valuation.
For these reasons, my provisional view was that a valuation of £600 would be fair, and that 
sum should be paid to Mr B (less any amount already paid, and any excess or charges) with 
interest added at 8%.
Replies to the provisional decision 
Markerstudy has replied to say it accepts the provisional decision and has nothing further to 
add.
Mr B has provided some further comments. He has given details of other similar mopeds 
being advertised for sale on websites at higher prices  between around £800 and £900. 
Based on these, he would like a higher valuation to be agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the examples Mr B has provided show mopeds being advertised at higher 
prices, but the fact that they are being advertised at higher prices doesnt necessarily mean 
they will actually be sold for the amount being sought. As I explained in the provisional 
decision, we tend to place more weight on the trade guides as these are likely to give a 
better indication of values than a small number of adverts. Having said that, the guide relied 
on by Markerstudy indicated a figure rather lower than the other guide or any of the adverts. 
So in my judgment the value previously offered was too low. Taking into account all the 
evidence Ive seen, including both trade guides and the various adverts, the range in values 
appears to be wide; between around £350 and £900. So, looking at everything in the round, 
my view is that a value of £600 is still a fair value. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Markerstudy should pay to Mr B: 
£600 in settlement for his theft claim, minus any amount already paid to Mr B and 
any excess or charges still to be paid under the policy; and
8% simple interest on any additional amount payable in this settlement, calculated 
from the date Markerstudy originally settled the claim to the date the additional 
payment is made.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to pay him the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman