DRN-1657384
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about two PPI policies, which were paid by monthly premium. The first was 
linked to a Bank of Scotland mortgage and started in July 1993. The other was a stand-alone 
policy which started in December 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint about the 2003 policy should be upheld, but that the one 
about the 1993 policy shouldnt. Mrs and Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about 
the 1993 policy, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached a similar view to the adjudicator about the 1993 and 2003 policies. I will explain 
why.
2003 PPI
I think Bank of Scotland was wrong to advise that Mrs and Mr G take out the policy in 2003. I 
say this because Mr G (the person covered) suffered from a medical condition, and this 
would have made it difficult for him to make claims related to that medical condition. I dont 
think hed have bought the policy if hed understood these limitations. 
1993 PPI
The sale of the 1993 policy was a long time ago  about 27 years ago  and, not 
surprisingly, none of the original documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult 
to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr G have said the Bank of Scotland adviser led them to believe they had to take 
the PPI as part of the mortgage package. However, I cant be sure how well Mrs and Mr G 
have remembered exactly what happened. And it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person 
making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a 
long time ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Gs true and informed consent.
 Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. This is what Ive looked at:
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr G, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mrs and Mr Gs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Gs situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr G (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr G received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr G would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. Mr G has said that he was confident he would 
always find another job if he became redundant. This might have been true, but it 
doesnt mean that the benefits of the PPI were not worth recommending  it would 
then have been Mrs and Mr Gs decision whether they accepted the recommendation 
(assuming they were given a choice  which I accept they are saying didnt really 
happen). 
Mr G says he had critical illness/disability insurance which would have given him an 
income till he was 60. First, I can see that this looks unlikely to have replaced his full 
income of the time. But, more importantly, critical illness insurance only pays out for 
very serious illnesses and disabilities: typically ones that would mean you can never 
work again. Whereas the PPI would have given cover for absences from work for 
less serious matters, but which might still mean you were off work for a long time. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr G would have been affected by any of these.
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mrs and Mr G took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its 
unlikely this information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, Bank of Scotland should put Mrs and Mr G in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt taken out the 2003 PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt 
been cancelled already, and Bank of Scotland should:
Pay Mrs and Mr G the amount they paid each month for the PPI.Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Scotland can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank 
of Scotland must give Mrs and Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am partly upholding Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. 
I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mrs and Mr G compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman