DRN-2509191
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard refused to accept payment in 
large denomination coins.
What happened
Mr C says he wanted to pay his credit card payment in large denomination commemorative 
coins. He says he was told he could do so but was later told he could not. Mr C says he was 
told the coins are not legal tender, but he says they are. He also says Barclaycard has 
invalidated his credit card agreement by not accepting them.
Barclaycard says the coins are not intended to be used as a payment and it will not accept 
them.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr Cs request unusual and so didnt think Barclaycard had acted 
unreasonably by giving him conflicting information. The investigator thought it for a court to 
interpret the various legal Acts and didnt think Barclaycard was obliged to accept the coins 
as payment towards the credit card debt.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says the coins are Legal Tender and says 
Barclaycard is legally obliged to accept them in payment of a debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this issue.
There is no real dispute that Mr Cs commemorative coins are legal tender. That means as 
Mr C knows that a debtor cant be sued for a debt when attempting to pay with Legal Tender. 
But Im satisfied that its made clear by the body that produces them that these coins are 
designed as a collectors item or for the purposes of a gift and that its unlikely they will be 
accepted as a payment.
So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard is entitled to refuse to accept the coins and its up to it to 
make such decisions when exercising its commercial judgement. I also make clear that its 
not our role to tell a bank or building society what its policy on this issue is or comment on if 
the credit card agreement has been invalidated. It would be for a court or Barclaycards 
regulator to decide upon such matters.
Overall, Im satisfied its up to a Barclaycard to decide if it wishes to accept Mr Cs payment 
in these coins. So, it follows that I dont think its acted unfairly or made a mistake by deciding 
it did not wish to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman