DRN-4034145
The complaint
Miss L complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of her car insurance 
claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Miss L had a car insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. She made a claim in July 2022 
after her car was damaged and it became impossible to use the front passenger door.
Admiral accepted the claim and arranged for their approved repairer to carry out the 
necessary repairs.
The approved repairer failed to contact Miss L for around a month. They then arranged a 
time to pick up the car but failed to show up as promised. 
They failed to respond to Miss Ls queries. And then promised an update but failed to 
provide it.
In the meantime, Miss L continued to drive the car, which she uses for work purposes. This 
was because the courtesy car which could have been provided under the terms of the policy 
would have been much smaller than her own car and wouldnt have served her purposes 
very well.
Miss L tells us this was inconvenient and embarrassing. Her work clients had to climb across 
the drivers seat to enter the car. And she was unable to pick up her elderly relative from her 
care home for outings.
Miss L chose to put up with the inconvenience on the assumption her car would be repaired 
reasonably soon.
Miss L complained to Admiral. They apologised for the delays and lack of communication 
and paid Miss L £200 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Miss L wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us, in late December 
2022. 
At that time, the car had still not been repaired. The work was eventually completed in 
January 2023, by a different garage.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Admiral should pay Miss L a further £200 in 
compensation, given the long delays in the repairs.
Admiral didnt respond to our investigators view within the original deadline or after then 
being prompted again to do so, so the case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the facts in this case. In essence, Miss L had her claim accepted 
and might reasonably have expected the car to be repaired in a matter of weeks. 
If that werent possible because of a need to order parts  as the original repairer suggested 
 that should have been made clear from the outset. 
Miss L might then have either taken the courtesy car on offer or chosen to have her car fixed 
by her own repairer.
Miss L complained about the courtesy car on offer, but I dont think that was justified. The 
terms and conditions of the policy were very clear about what type and size of courtesy car 
would be available. 
The repairer, acting for and on behalf Admiral, clearly failed to communicate effectively with 
Miss L and failed to keep promises theyd made.
That meant Miss L was driving a damaged car which wasnt entirely fit for purpose for 
around six months, at some considerable inconvenience and embarrassment to her. That 
period ought to have been considerably shorter. 
It appears that once the job was taken by the eventual repairer, the work was carried out 
reasonably quickly. 
Putting things right
As I say, theres no dispute here that Admiral, or their agents, made errors in handling 
Miss Ls claim, which led to significant unnecessary delays in the car being fixed.
That caused Miss L quite considerable inconvenience and embarrassment over a prolonged 
period due to her use of the car for work and other essential activities. 
She also experienced a degree of stress due to not knowing when her car would be fixed 
and the frustration of chasing the repairer and Admiral for updates and progress.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied the £400 compensation, in total, suggested by 
our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset experienced 
by Miss L as a result of Admirals errors.
Just to be absolutely clear, that £400 compensation in total includes the £200 I understand 
Admiral have already paid Miss L. It isnt an additional £400 on top of the £200 already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Miss L £400 compensation in total for her 
trouble and upset.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman