DRN-3317093
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid, in full, the claim he made 
under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P has a travel insurance policy as part of the type of building society account he is the 
account holder of.
Towards the end of 2019, Mr P booked a holiday to the USA for him and his family. They 
were due to depart the UK in early July 2020 travelling on an indirect flight, which involved a 
stop-over in a different country. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic  including to the 
USA. As that advice was still in place shortly before Mr P and his family were due to travel, 
the holiday was cancelled.
Mr P made a claim on the policy to cover the pre-paid costs for the outbound and inbound 
flights for him and his family  just over £3,000. 
UKI initially declined the claim on the basis that Mr P was offered credit to rebook the flights 
at a later date instead of a full cash refund. However, shortly after Mr P brought his 
complaint to our service UKI agreed to pay one quarter of the total amounts paid for his and 
his familys flights as that represented the cost of his inbound and outbound flight. Thats 
because the rest of his family werent insured under the policy.
From that amount it also deduced £80 which represented Air Passenger Duty (APD) which 
UKI says wouldve been included in the cost of the flight. So, it ended up paying Mr P 
£672.25.
Our investigator looked into what happened and concluded that UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably by only covering the amount equivalent to the pre-paid cost of Mr Ps inbound 
and outbound flights.
Mr P disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
UKI has ultimately decided to partly cover the claim made by P under the policy, 
representing the cost of his inbound and outbound flights.
The policy does provide cover for certain costs if a trip is cancelled due to FCO: advising 
against All travel to your destination. So long as the advice comes into force after you 
opened your [building society account], or booked your trip whichever is later  as is what 
happened here. 
However, the cancellation section of the policy (at pages 19 and 20 of the policys terms and 
conditions) also sets out what isnt covered. And at page 20, clause 10, it says UKI wont pay 
for:
The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
portion of any costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Ill refer to this as the exclusion. 
You is defined under the policy as 
The account holder and if a family upgrade has been purchased the account 
holders partner and any dependent children. 
I understand that Mr P didnt purchase a family upgrade and as he was the account holder, I 
dont think UKI has unreasonably relied on the exclusion to only pay the cost of his inbound 
and outbound flights  as that was his portion of the total costs paid for the his and his 
familys flights. 
Mr Ps share amounts to £752.25. From this, UKI has deducted £80 to represent APD and 
has paid Mr P £672.25. 
The policy contains specific exclusions, one of which says any costs that the policyholder 
can recover from elsewhere are excluded by the policy. 
The booking invoice confirming the flights Mr P purchased for him and his family reflects that 
the total price includes all taxes and fees. And, although not expressly mentioned, Im 
satisfied that its likely this includes APD which was £80 at the time of the flight based on a 
flight to the USA. Thats because set amounts for APD are paid by all passengers travelling 
on a commercial aircraft taking off from an airport in England.  
If a flight doesnt go ahead from the UK, APD can be reclaimed from the airline/travel 
agency. But Im conscious that passengers can be charged an administration fee by the 
airline/travel agency and that fee may, on occasions, be higher than the APD amount. Given 
this, I asked our investigator to check with UKI whether it would be prepared to refund to Mr 
P the amount it deducted for APD relating to his flight. 
UKI has referred to a further specific exclusion in the policy relating to administrative costs.
However, UKI has said that if Mr P pursues a refund of the APD from the airline and travel 
booking agency and is unsuccessful in obtaining a refund, he should refer back to UKI and it 
would reconsider reimbursing the APD paid in respect of Mr Ps flight. Thats on the basis 
that Mr P is able to provide written responses from the airline and travel booking agency 
confirming its position specifically in relation to the APD paid for his flight. I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
I dont think U K Insurance Limited needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman