DRN-3060326
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) continued to charge him the 
full monthly fee for his Travel Pack during the Covid-19 pandemic. He believes that he 
should be refunded at least part of this fee, as he was unable to use the travel insurance due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. He also believes that Barclays should refund an additional 
premium that he paid to be covered under the travel insurance.
What happened
Mr M has a Travel Pack added to his current account with Barclays. One of the benefits that 
this pack comes with is worldwide travel insurance. 
Mr M says Barclays should refund at least part of his monthly fee for the Travel Pack as he 
has not been able to use the travel insurance benefit due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr M complained to Barclays and Barclays responded saying that it was not going to refund 
part of the monthly pack fee as it feels that Mr M couldve removed the Travel Pack from his 
account if he so wished. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators investigated it but concluded that Barclays hadnt acted unfairly. So, he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt accept this outcome and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here Having done so, I dont think that Barclays needs to refund any of the monthly 
pack fees. Let me explain why.
The Travel pack that Mr M has complained about contains benefits that are sold as a 
package. Because of this, people are unable to pick and choose what benefits that it comes 
with. And that also means it comes at a fixed price too. Therefore, if pack holders dont feel 
that the combination of benefits that they receive from the package continues to provide 
good value for money, it is up to them to cancel it.
In this case, Mr M mayve felt (quite understandably) that the pack was poor value for money 
during the pandemic and he should get a refund as he was unable to use the travel 
insurance benefit. But the Travel pack does not operate like a typical insurance policy does. 
Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, it provides cover (and some non-
insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Mr M was not tied into 
keeping the pack, he was free to cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good value for 
money.
I should add that the decision by Barclays not to refund the fees for all customers was a 
commercial decision that it was entitled to make. It did though need to explain this clearly to 
Mr M and set out his options going forward. I can see that in Barclays response to Mr Ms 
complaint it was explained that the pack fees would not be refunded and that it was up to Mr 
M to decide whether to continue to pay for the pack or cancel it if he preferred to do so. 
I understand that this may have been inconvenient for Mr M. And I can understand how 
frustrating that it must have been to not be able to use services that he was paying for. But, 
ultimately, Barclays has no obligation to refund pack premiums when a consumer cant use 
part of the benefits they provide when the reason for this was not down to Barclays. I also 
cant see that Barclays did anything else wrong in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman