DRN-3868906
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about deductions Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe)  
Limited (C&G) made from the settlement of her claims for the cost of veterinary treatment for 
her dog. 
What happened
On 18 March 2022 Mrs Fs dog, who Ill refer to as R, became ill with gastroenteritis which 
caused vomiting and diarrhoea. R was initially seen at one veterinary practice who 
investigated her, took various samples and started her on intravenous fluid therapy. As this 
therapy needed to be continued, in the late afternoon R was transferred to another 
veterinary practice for out of hours care. She remained in care overnight and was discharged 
the following morning.
Mrs F was charged £466.86 by the first veterinary practice (Claim 1), and £345.26 by the 
second (Claim 2). She submitted these claims to C&G.
C&G didnt respond for 10 weeks. It initially rejected Claim 1 on the ground that Rs condition 
was connected to a pre-existing condition dating back to November 2018 that hadnt been 
disclosed when the policy was taken out.
After Mrs F brought her complaint to this service, C&G reviewed its position and decided to 
overturn its original decision, and made the following payment in relation to Claim 1:
Total amount claimed: £466.86
Not claimable: 
Fluid therapy £146.89
Excess: £90
Total amount paid: £229.97
Amount deducted: £236.89
Mrs F wasnt happy about the deductions made by C&G as this represented half the cost of 
her claim so she brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that C&G had acted unreasonably in its deduction of the 
policys £90 excess as this was clearly mentioned in the policy documentation, but he did 
look into C&Gs deduction of the cost of fluid therapy. 
C&G relies on the following exclusion in Mrs Fs policy to make this deduction:
What is not insured?
 Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury.
Our investigator asked Rs vet for her professional opinion as to whether shed consider the 
fluid treatment carried out for R to be cosmetic, elective or routine or preventative treatment. 
She was also asked to confirm whether she considered the fluid therapy carried out on R to 
be necessary life-saving treatment. He didnt receive any response.
He also asked C&G to explain why it considered fluid therapy treatment to be cosmetic, 
elective, or routine or preventative treatment, but C&G didnt respond to this request. 
However it did provide our investigator with a copy of C&Gs underwriting criteria which I 
cant share with Mrs F because of its commercial sensitivity, but it does contain a limitation 
on payments for fluid therapy.
Our investigator considered that C&Gs limitation on claims for fluid therapy wasnt made 
clear to Mrs F, and that it should pay her the £146.89 it deducted for this treatment with 
interest. He also considered that C&G should pay Mrs F £150 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs F brought to his attention that shed also made 
Claim 2. This had also been subject to the following deductions:
Total amount claimed £345.26
Not claimable:
Hospitalisation over £100  £68.97
Fluid Therapy      £16.32
Medication
(over 100% markup)       £17.38
         Total deduction      £102.67 
To support its deduction for excess medication costs, C&G referred to the following policy 
term (General Exclusion 4):
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are:
 Reasonable; and
 Essential for Your pets health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a 
maximum mark-up of 100% for Veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing 
fees.
With regard to the deduction for hospitalisation, it referred to the limitation in the policy which 
states that it excludes:
Any claim where the cost of a referral consultation exceeds £200 and where 
hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day;
Having already given his view on the deduction of the cost of fluid therapy in relation to 
Claim 1, our investigator also didnt consider that C&G had acted fairly in making deductions 
for excess medicine and hospitalisation costs. 
His view was that it wouldnt have been clear to Mrs F what veterinary treatment, medication 
and dispensing fees might be if it was open to C&G to determine what was reasonable and 
that a 100% markup limit may apply. He recommended that C&G refund Mrs F £17.38.
He also didnt consider that the limit of £100 for hospitalisation costs was fair as it applied 
regardless of location, and costs could vary between areas. He recommended that C&G 
refund Mrs F £68.97 with interest.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view. It argues that fluid therapy is routine 
treatment and is therefore excluded by reference to the exclusion quoted above. It also says 
that it was up to Mrs F to make enquiry of C&G as to restrictions on the costs of fluid therapy 
treatment and what this meant to her so she could then make an informed decision about whether the policy was right for her. C&G also referred to its underwriting policy to show that 
Mrs F had been treated fairly and consistently with all other customers.
Its asked that Mrs Fs complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman so its been referred to me 
for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint in part and Ill explain why.
With regard to the cost of fluid therapy treatment, I dont accept C&Gs position on this.
Having considered the term upon which C&G relies, I disagree with C&G when it states that 
fluid therapy provided during the course of treating an illness can be excluded because it is 
routine. Such an interpretation would exclude from cover any customary treatment when 
treating a particular illness or injury. When read alongside the references to cosmetic and 
elective treatment, I take routine to mean treatment that isnt immediately required to 
address an illness or accident  and may be preventative. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that Rs fluid therapy treatment wasnt necessary for the treatment of her condition. The 
second vet referred to it as typical treatment. The policy terms and conditions also make no 
reference to any cap on fluid therapy charges.
I therefore consider this to be an unfair deduction and that C&G should refund to Mrs F 
£146.89 under Claim 1 and £16.32 under Claim 2 -  a total of £163.21.
With regard to medicine mark up, I dont consider that the policy is sufficiently clear as to 
how C&G determines the cost of medication against which the cost charged by a vet is 
compared. I therefore consider that C&G should refund Mrs F £17.38.
With regard to the cost of Rs overnight hospitalisation, I do accept that the policy itself refers 
to a limit of £100 per day for hospitalisation. It could be argued that as R was admitted on 18 
March and discharged on 19 March, and as the policy refers to a daily rate of £100 rather 
than a rate per 24 hours, the limit on the cost of her hospitalization is £200. 
However as R was only admitted in the early evening of 18 March and was discharged on 
the morning of 19 March, I consider it would be fair to regard this as falling within a rate for 
one day. So I dont consider that in this case C&G has acted unreasonably in deducting the 
£68.97 by which the amount the vet has charged exceeds the specified £100 policy limit. Im 
therefore not going to ask C&G to refund this.
I should mention that Ive noted C&Gs reference to the view of an adjudicator from this 
service in another case but each case needs to be considered on its own merits, and views 
of veterinary professionals will not always be consistent.
Mrs Fs policy clearly states theres a £90 excess fee. As such, I cant say this was unfairly 
deducted.
Our investigator initially considered that compensation of £150 would be appropriate in this 
case for the trouble and upset Mrs F wouldve suffered as a consequence of having 
consideration of her claim delayed and then initially denied, and for the delay in settling part 
of it. He subsequently added a further £50 because of the inclusion of Claim 2. As Claim 2 related to the same course of treatment as Claim 1, I dont think there are 
grounds for increasing the compensation and that total compensation of £150 is fair and 
reasonable for the upset that Mrs F experienced and the additional interest cost that she had 
to pay to her credit card issuer to finance the payment to her vets because of C&Gs delay in 
responding to her claim, and then disputing it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Fs claim in part.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to pay to Mrs F £180.59, being £163.21 in respect of the deduction it made for the 
cost of fluid therapy and £17.38 for the deduction it made in respect of excess 
medicine charges.
2. to pay Mrs F interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% from the date she paid her 
vet to the date payment is made to her.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3. To pay Mrs F compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman