DRN-3719660
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs W are unhappy with the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has paid in 
settlement of a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. Instead Ill focus on the areas which remain in dispute, and which are key to 
delivering a fair and reasonable outcome. 
But to briefly summarise, Mr S and Mrs W made a claim for an escape of water at their 
home. They appointed a loss assessor to scope out the required remedial works, manage 
their claim with their insurer  AXA  and to carry out the repairs once a settlement had been 
agreed.
The loss assessor submitted the claim and costs for repairs, based on its scope, to AXA. 
AXA didnt agree the proposed costs were reasonable, so appointed a loss adjuster and 
surveyor to create its own costed scope of works. The costs for this came in significantly 
lower than the loss assessors proposed costs. 
Following a dispute over the flooring included in AXAs scope, and the costs for storage, 
AXA increased its proposed settlement offer. Mr S and Mrs W remained unhappy and so 
appointed an independent chartered surveyor to review the scope of works and provide their 
opinion on the cost of the works  in the hope of breaking the deadlock. 
The independent surveyors report said costs for reinstatement was between the loss 
assessors costs and AXAs. Mr S and Mrs Ws loss assessor agreed to be bound by the 
opinion of the chartered surveyor and so agreed to carry out the works for the amount he 
suggested. But AXA maintained its view that the costs were still high and that its proposed 
costs were reasonable.
In its response to Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint, AXA acknowledged that there had been 
avoidable delays and communication issues on the part of its loss adjuster. So, it offered 
£250 compensation. But it maintained that the settlement it had paid for the claim was fair. 
AXA later added a further £75 for further delays and communication issues since its final 
response letter.
Mr S and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. When AXA provided its complaint file to the investigator, it made an increased 
offer of £625 compensation for the service failings. But it said it had, had its loss adjusters 
costs reviewed by one of its in-house surveyors who agreed they were reasonable. So, AXA 
maintained its position on the claim settlement decision. 
Our investigator said the improved offer of compensation was fair for the service issues. And 
he thought AXAs claim settlement offer was fair and reasonable too. He said AXAs scope 
of works was based on a site visit rather than a desktop valuation, so he found it more 
persuasive that the independent surveyors report. Based on this, he didnt recommend that 
AXA should increase the settlement. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, previous disputes over the flooring, storage costs and some damp 
proofing works have now all been resolved. The only issues which appear to remain 
in dispute are the settlement amount and the level of compensation for the service 
issues. So, these are the areas Ill focus on below.
Settlement amount
From what Ive seen, the scope of works required isnt in dispute, only the costs for 
carrying out that work.
Mr S and Mrs Ws loss assessor first attended the property, scoped out the work 
required and provided its proposed costs to AXA. They said the works required would 
cost around £72,400. The loss assessor hasnt shared its rates with AXA, or our 
service, as it says theyre commercially sensitive.
AXAs loss adjuster and surveyor visited the property and the surveyor created their 
own scope of works. They initially said the works would cost around £26,500. But this 
amount was eventually increased to around £32,900 when they accepted theyd 
included the wrong type of flooring and added additional storage costs. AXA says its 
scope is based on a mixture of Building Cost Information Service (BCIS) rates (which 
are set by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and Symbility (an AXA 
approved tool) costs  which are agreed rates with its contractors and which it says 
reflect the RICS national averages and market rates. 
Given the dispute over the costs, based on the two parties experts, the loss assessor 
advised Mr S and Mrs W to appoint an independent chartered surveyor to review the 
available photos and scopes of work and to provide their opinion on the cost of 
carrying out the required works. The independent surveyor said the works would cost 
around £51,250. He said his scope was based on BCIS rates, knowledge of previous 
jobs and materials and labour rates.AXA considered the independent report and costs and had them assessed by the 
loss adjuster and an internal surveyor. AXA maintained its view that the costs were 
too high and that the costs it had already offered were reasonable. It highlighted 
several concerns with the independent scope of works, such as the proposed costs 
for removing radiator covers and repairing plaster behind skirting. It also raised 
issues with the inclusion of a 10% uplift for COVID related restrictions, the increase in 
costs for the supply and sanding of the flooring, the increase in costs for the 
preliminaries and the increase in costs for the kitchen works.
Im not an expert in the costing or scoping of building repairs. My role is to look at the 
available evidence, including reports or opinions provided by qualified experts, and to 
reach a decision about what I consider to be fair and reasonable in light of such 
evidence.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and arguments provided by both sides. 
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. In our investigators view, the most persuasive costs were provided by 
AXAs loss adjuster and surveyor. This was because they had actually visited the site 
prior to producing their scope as opposed to the independent surveyor who hadnt 
attended site. But I dont agree with this and Ill explain why.
In this case, the scope of required works and the relevant measurements arent in 
dispute, only the cost of completing those works. If the dispute related to the works 
required or the measurements taken, Id agree that it might be reasonable to place 
more weight on the opinion of someone whod attended the site over someone who 
hadnt. But, in my view, a chartered surveyor would be more than capable of pricing 
the required works based on the scopes and measurements completed by others. In 
this case the surveyor set out all of the evidence he had sight of, and utilised, to 
provide his report and suggested costs. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
the fact the surveyor didnt attend the site impacts the reliability or persuasiveness of 
his findings.
In similar cases, where there are two parties giving significantly different opinions on 
costs based on expert opinion, I might have suggested appointing an additional, 
independent expert to provide an opinion. But thats what already happened in this 
case, prior to our services involvement. 
Having considered the third (independent) surveyors report, Im satisfied that he is 
sufficiently qualified and that his opinion is genuinely independent of AXA and 
Mr S and Mrs W. Ive thought about AXAs concerns with some of the costs he 
suggested. But I note that the surveyor has provided a specific response to these 
concerns and I dont believe his position or response to be unreasonable. 
While I dont doubt that each of the experts, appointed by AXA or the loss assessor, 
have approached this case as impartially as they can, I cant ignore that each were 
also acting as agents of the respective parties  the loss assessor for Mr S and Mrs 
W and the loss adjuster for AXA. Whereas the chartered surveyor was appointed by 
Mr S and Mrs W (at the suggestion of the loss assessor but with no involvement from 
them) specifically to provide an impartial opinion after having considered the 
evidence and costs already proposed by both sides. Based on the above, I consider the chartered surveyors report to be the most 
impartial of the available expert evidence. And taking that into account along with the 
surveyors level of expertise, the content of his report and the additional comments 
he provided in response to AXAs concerns, I also consider his opinion to be the 
most persuasive. 
So, unless any information provided in response to this provisional decision changes 
my opinion, Im intending to direct AXA to increase the settlement it paid to Mr S and 
Mrs W, to the value provided by the independent surveyor. This means it must pay 
the difference between the amount it has already paid, and the costs provided by the 
surveyor.
As I understand it, the loss assessor has already carried out the repair works, for the 
amount quoted by the surveyor, and has charged Mr S and Mrs W the difference 
between that amount and the settlement already paid by AXA. They said this amount 
came to £21,681.94 after factoring in VAT and removal of the policy excess. If Mr S 
and Mrs W have already paid the loss assessor that money, then AXA should also 
add 8% simple interest to the amount due to them, from the date they paid the loss 
assessor to the date they are reimbursed. This is to compensate them for being 
deprived of the use of that money for other purposes.
In addition, as the independent surveyors report has been material to my provisional 
decision to uphold Mr S and Mrs W complaint about the cost of the works, Im also 
intending to direct AXA to cover the costs they incurred in obtaining that report. And 
to that amount, AXA should also add 8% simple interest, from the date they paid the 
surveyor to the date they are reimbursed  for the reason explained above. 
Service issues
Mr S and Mrs W have also complained about the handling of their claim. They say 
there were unnecessary or unreasonable delays and that they were required to 
chase the loss adjuster for contact numerous times. 
AXA has accepted that the level of service Mr S and Mrs W received on this claim fell 
short of their reasonable expectations. It made several separate offers of 
compensation - £150 for having to chase the loss adjuster for contact, £100 for the 
length of time it took AXA to answer their complaint and £75 for further issues after it 
issued its final response letter, including delays with some works for damp proofing. 
AXA then increased this offer by a further £300, taking it to £625 in total, when it 
submitted its complaint file to our service. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that happened, including how Mr S and Mrs W 
have said theyve been impacted by these issues. It must be noted that insurance 
claims like this are likely to cause some distress and inconvenience by their very 
nature, and that isnt the fault of the insurer or its agents. But in this case, its not 
disputed that further, unnecessary, distress and inconvenience has been caused. 
Taking everything that happened into account, Im satisfied that the £625 offered by 
AXA is sufficient to fairly compensate Mr S and Mrs W for the impact of the delays 
and communication issues.That said, unlike our investigator, Im currently minded to decide that the decision 
AXA reached on the claim was unfair. And I think its reasonable to conclude that 
having the initial claim decision maintained, despite obtaining and providing further 
expert evidence in support of their position, would have been frustrating and 
distressing. So, Im intending to award a further £125 compensation for the impact of 
this, taking the final compensation award to £750 in total.
I set out that I was intending to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint and to direct AXA to 
increase the settlement for their claim in line with the figures proposed by the independent 
surveyor. I said I intended to direct AXA to cover the cost of the independent surveyors 
report and to pay a total of £750 compensation. 
Mr S and Mrs W said they accepted my provisional conclusions. But AXA didnt agree. In 
summary, it said:
The independent surveyor based his findings on the scope of work and photos 
provided by the loss assessor whereas its surveyor visited the property.
It had its surveyors figures reviewed by additional in-house surveyors.
It doesnt see how a surveyor appointed by the loss assessor can be considered any 
more impartial than those it appointed. Nor does it see why the surveyors chartered 
status should mean his findings are more persuasive.
Some elements of the independent surveyors costs, such as the radiator covers, 
were high.
The insured has carried out a cost assessment on their own quote which surely 
would result in a biased opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the points raised in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, my provisional conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
In reaching my provisional decision I had already considered the majority of the arguments 
AXA has raised in response, as those arguments had already been made. I commented 
specifically on the fact that the independent surveyor hadnt attended the site and that AXA 
had its figures reviewed internally. I also commented on AXAs view that specific elements of 
the independent surveyors costs were too high. Nothing AXA has said, about these points, 
in response to my provisional decision has changed the conclusions I reached.
AXA has questioned how a surveyor appointed by the loss assessor can be considered 
more impartial than its own surveyors. But again, I explained in my provisional decision that 
the independent surveyor wasnt appointed by the loss assessor. Rather the loss assessor 
specifically agreed with AXA that Mr S and Mrs W would appoint a surveyor without their or 
AXAs involvement  in an attempt to maximise the impartiality of the appointed expert.I accept that the independent surveyor based his opinion on the scope and photos provided 
by the loss assessor. But at the stage the scope of works was no longer in dispute. The 
independent surveyor was appointed specifically to give an independent and unbiased view 
of the cost of the works. I remain of the view that he is the expert with the least vested 
interest and is therefore the most impartial. Im also satisfied he is sufficiently qualified and 
that he has specifically addressed AXAs concerns with individual elements of his proposed 
costs. So, taking the above into account, I remain of the view that his costs are the most 
persuasive and so it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to increase the claim settlement 
in line with them.
It follows that I also think AXA needs to cover the cost of the independent report as set out in 
my provisional decision, and that it should pay the additional compensation I provisionally 
concluded was fair, for the reasons I explained.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Increase the claim settlement in line with the costs provided by the independent 
chartered surveyor. If Mr S and Mrs W already paid that amount to their loss 
assessor, AXA should add 8% simple interest, to this amount, from the point Mr S 
and Mrs W were out of pocket to the date of settlement.
Reimburse the cost of the independent report plus 8% simple interest from the point 
Mr S and Mrs W were out of pocket to the date of settlement.
Pay a total of £750 compensation (taking into account any payments it has already 
made).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman