DRN-2847939
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the customer service she received from The Ancient Order of 
Foresters Friendly Society Limited when changing the name on her guaranteed saving plan.
What happened
In early 2020 Foresters received a letter from Mrs M asking them to update their records as 
she had gotten married and changed her name. Foresters wrote back to Mrs M saying the 
documents provided didnt meet their certification requirements. Mrs M obtained a second 
set of documents and sent them to Foresters who again said they didnt meet their 
requirements. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this request so asked to Foresters to surrender the plan. Foresters 
sent Mrs M a letter with the surrender value of her plan which gave several options for 
surrendering or keeping the plan open. Mrs M sent the form back asking for the plan to be 
surrendered as well as another copy of the documents showing her change of name.
Mrs M complained to Foresters who apologised for the inconvenience of what happened and 
sent her a £20 gift voucher. Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our 
service saying that because of the poor service she received she surrendered her plan 
which cost her around £500 in fees.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought the £20 was fair 
compensation. They said that Foresters shouldve accepted the second set of documents. 
And whilst obtaining the third set of documents was an inconvenience, there was no financial 
cost and the £20 along with the apology compensated for any impact. They also explained 
that Foresters gave Mrs M several options about surrendering her plan, including options 
which meant not losing out financially. Because it was Mrs Ms choice to take the option that 
did incur charges, when other options were available, they didnt ask Foresters to make any 
payment. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that the first set of documents werent certified as Foresters 
requires, so its fair they werent accepted. I also agree that the second set of documents 
shouldve been accepted by Foresters. So I think Mrs M shouldnt have had to get a third set 
of documents.  
Foresters have apologised for the service Mrs M received and sent her £20 worth of gift 
vouchers. Looking at what happened, and the inconvenience Mrs M was caused, Im 
satisfied this is a fair way of resolving the complaint.
There was some inconvenience as Mrs M had to make another trip to have the documents 
certified. Other than the time taken to make an extra trip Ive seen no evidence that having 
the documents certified a third time had a financial cost to Mrs M. Unfortunately sometimes 
mistakes happen which cause an amount of inconvenience. I think what Foresters have 
offered is fair and reasonable for the impact the error had. 
Mrs M is also unhappy about the amount she received when the plan was surrendered. I can 
understand why Mrs M chose to surrender the plan as she was unhappy with the customer 
service shed received. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Foresters should cover the 
cost of any loss.
When Mrs M told Foresters she wanted to surrender the plan they sent her a letter outlining 
the options. They gave the current surrender value and explained it was important to 
compare the current value to what the value would be if the bond ran its course with 
premiums continuing to be paid. The letter also said that Mrs M could make the plan paid up 
which would mean that bonuses would continue to accrue even though monthly premiums 
were no longer payable. The letter went on to say that the information provided wasnt 
advice, and that Mrs M should contact her financial adviser if there was any doubt about the 
most suitable course of action. 
Mrs M signed and returned the form asking for a full surrender of the plan. Im happy 
Foresters actioned the surrender request correctly and they provided sufficient information 
for Mrs M to make an informed decision about what she wanted to do. Mrs M chose to 
surrender the plan so I dont think Foresters are responsible for any loss this decision might 
have caused.
 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the offer and apology from Foresters is a 
fair way of resolving the complaint, so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman