DRN-3037828
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont honour its mileage moneyback 
scheme taken with his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund of his premium and a 
goodwill gesture. 
What happened
Mr A took out a policy with UKI and decided to take part in its mileage moneyback scheme. 
Under the scheme, consumers receive a pro-rata refund of premium if their annual mileage 
is 1,000 miles or less than their estimate when they joined the scheme. Mr A cancelled his 
policy after four months. UKI told him he hadnt qualified for a refund of premium. But Mr A 
said that the scheme allowed for mid-term changes.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policys terms and conditions stated that a full policy year needed to be completed in order to 
benefit from the scheme. She thought the mid-term adjustments referred to changes in, for 
example, the car on the policy, not to cancellation.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its come to ne for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated that he hasnt received the partial refund of his 
premium he expected. Mr A thought this was unfair as UKIs website stated that the scheme 
applied if there had been mid-term policy changes. He said he had submitted mileage 
readings at the start and end of the policy and the difference was 1,000 miles less than 
expected for that duration. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI said Mr A didnt receive the expected refund because he hadnt completed his policy 
year, but he had cancelled the policy after four months. I can see that on UKIs website the 
policys terms and conditions state:
At the end of the policy year  once you receive your renewal invite- youll need to submit a 
new mileage reading. Well then work out how many miles youve driven, and compare to the 
estimated annual mileage on your policy.
And also,
if you (or we) cancel your annual policy at any point before its due to end, no refund will be 
given.
So I agree with our investigator that the policys terms and conditions are clear that the 
scheme is applied on an annual basis. And so, as Mr A cancelled his policy mid-term, Im 
satisfied that he didnt qualify for any refund. 
Ive looked at the policys reference to changes made mid-term. And I think this refers to 
changes in such things as a car or an address. I cant see that a pro-rata refund is 
mentioned except when a consumer joins the scheme after inception of the policy. Im 
satisfied that there is still a requirement to complete the policy year in order to qualify for the 
benefit. So I think UKI has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions and I dont require it to make him any payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman