DRN-2781855
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the way that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Ltd (the AA) 
handled a claim from a third party against his motor insurance policy. He complains that they 
didnt contact him before making their decision - which caused him to lose five years no 
claim discount.  
What happened
In March 2019, while queuing at a petrol station, Mr Ds car rolled towards the car in front of 
him because the handbrake wasnt applied properly. Mr D says no damage was caused - he 
took photos and exchanged insurance details.
The AA contacted Mr D a few days later  they told him theyd been notified of an incident by 
a third-party insurance company and wanted to confirm what had happened. Mr D told them 
about the incident and said thered been no damage. He emailed his photos to them. 
Mr D didnt hear anything else until the end of July, when his insurance was due for renewal. 
He noticed his no claim discount had suddenly reduced from nine years to four years. After 
contacting the AA, Mr D discovered that the claim had been processed and the third party 
had been paid damages. Mr D complained that he hadnt been contacted about the claim, 
and that he wasnt given the opportunity to pay for the repair so that he could retain his no 
claim discount. The AA said theyd done nothing wrong.
Our investigator thought the AA hadnt provided clear information to Mr D about how much 
his no claim discount would be reduced if a claim was made on his policy. He thought theyd 
acted unfairly by reducing it by five years, because Mr Ds policy document said the 
reduction was usually by the equivalent of zero, one or two years. The investigator thought 
Mr Ds no claim discount should only be reduced by two years  and that the AA should give 
him a document confirming this.
The AA said Mr D hadnt complained about the number of years no claim discount deducted 
 and that the policy wording says it would be reduced to the equivalent of 0, 1 or 2yrs. 
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds insurance policy set out how theyll handle claims  Ive 
read these carefully. The policy entitles the AA to handle the negotiation, defence or 
settlement of any claim on his behalf. Mr D clearly feels very strongly that the incident at the 
petrol station hadnt caused any damage, so I can appreciate his frustration that the AA 
settled the claim. Ive considered whether they acted fairly and reasonably here.
Ive listened to what Mr D told the AA when they first contacted him about the accident. He 
said there hadnt been any damage - but he also admitted that his car had rolled into the 
other car. Mr D sent his photos to the AA with a covering email, which said: please note 
there is a scratch already on the claimants rear bumper before my car rolled into his car. 
Ive examined those photos, which show some damage to the rear bumper. Ive seen similar 
photos provided to the AA by the third-party insurer with their repairs estimate. 
The AA have said that its not in their interests to pay claims which are excessive or 
unrelated to the incident  and that liability was accepted because the reported damage was 
felt to be consistent with the version of events provided. I dont consider the AA to have 
acted unreasonably in reaching that decision. And having accepted that there was a valid 
claim on his policy, it follows that I dont find the AA to have done anything wrong by 
registering a fault incident against Mr Ds claim history and reducing his no claim discount. 
Mr Ds policy booklet says that, if a claim is made, the no claim discount will be reduced in 
accordance with the insurers step back scale. I dont find this to be fully explained in the 
policy booklet, which simply says the discount is usually reduced to the equivalent of zero, 
one or two years, subject to any protection purchased. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr D 
wouldve done anything different if the full step-back scale had been set out in his policy 
booklet. I note that he chose not to protect his no claim discount when he bought the policy 
online. Ive seen evidence that, if hed clicked to open up the extended information about 
protecting no claim discount, he wouldve seen full information about how it would reduce 
following a claim. 
Although I think the information couldve been presented to him more clearly, Im satisfied 
that Mr D was aware when he purchased the policy that a claim would lead to his no claim 
discount being reduced - possibly down to zero, one or two years. Ive reviewed the AAs 
step back scale, which shows that in this case, the no claim discount would reduce to four 
years. Im satisfied that Mr Ds no claim discount was reduced to four years, in line with the 
step-back scale, so I dont find the AA to have done anything wrong here.
Mr D is upset about the lack of communication from the AA - he feels he shouldve been 
given the opportunity to pay for the repairs himself so that his no claim discount wouldnt be 
affected. In their response to his complaint, the AA said their claims team would only contact 
a customer if they needed further explanation of the circumstances or damage because 
information didnt tie up. Theyve said that they were able to keep the costs of the claim 
down by providing a hire vehicle to the third party while his vehicle was repaired  and that 
this isnt something Mr D wouldve been able to do. Although I appreciate that Mr D wanted 
to have a say in whether the claim was settled, Im satisfied that this was a matter for the AA 
to decide. 
That said, Im not persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for the AA to settle the claim 
without any communication to him. I say this because, in the conversation Mr D had with 
their representative in March, I find that he was led to believe hed be contacted if a claim 
was made on his policy that the AA were unable to defend. So I can appreciate that he 
would be confused and upset when he discovered, out of the blue, that his renewal premium 
had dramatically increased. I think he should be compensated for this.
I said that I intended to direct the AA to pay Mr D £100 compensation. I invited the parties to 
make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr D £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman