DRN-2785451
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M are unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after they made a claim 
on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
All reference to Amtrust include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr H and Mr M have legal expenses insurance with Amtrust. In October 2018 Mr M 
contacted Amtrust as they were experiencing difficulties with neighbours who had moved in 
earlier that year. Amtrust asked Mr M for further information which he provided in January. It 
then sent the claim to panel solicitors for them to assess if it had reasonable prospects of 
success (as required by the policy terms). 
Mr M requested the panel solicitors wait on completing that assessment until hed provided 
further information. A prospects assessment was completed at the end of November 2019. 
That concluded most elements of the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. A 
property damage claim did but further information on the cost of repair was required. In 
January 2020 the panel solicitors told Amtrust Mr M was unhappy with the assessment but 
hadnt confirmed why that was or given permission for this to be released. 
In May the panel solicitors told Amtrust that Mr M had now explained why he was unhappy 
with the assessment and suggested obtaining counsels opinion to bring certainty to the 
matter. Amtrust said as no legal challenge had been provided to the assessment it didnt feel 
this was necessary. And having been provided with a copy of the assessment it told Mr M 
that it wouldnt be able to assist with the claim at this stage. But would review matters if he 
provided further information or a legal challenge. 
Following further correspondence, the panel solicitors advised in June that in the particular 
circumstances of this case they did feel that counsels opinion would help move matters 
forward. Amtrust agreed to fund that and asked the panel solicitors to progress that. It 
accepted the following month that as relations had broken down between Mr M and the 
panel solicitors he could use his own firm  As Mr M was also having to take action in 
response to a claim his neighbours had made against him it agreed to retrospectively cover 
costs incurred in protecting his position if a positive opinion on prospects was obtained from 
counsel. 
There was further correspondence about funding over the next month and Amtrust 
confirmed its position on this to Mr Ms solicitors. Instructions were provided to counsel who 
provided his opinion in October. Amtrust said its understanding was that counsel hadnt 
confirmed prospects for any aspect of the claim. It said if Mr M disagreed with the advice he 
could provide further information which it would arrange for counsel to review. Or he could 
provide a legal challenge from an alternative barrister at his own cost. 
Our investigator said it was a requirement of the policy that a claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. She thought it was reasonable of Amtrust to rely on the legal opinion 
from the barrister in concluding the claim Mr M had made didnt meet the policy terms. 
She didnt think that Amtrust was responsible for any significant delays in handling the claim. 
And while it could have made the options clearer to Mr M when it learnt in January 2020 that 
he was unhappy with the prospects assessment, its subsequent decision to fund counsels 
opinion did enough to put things right here. She agreed there had been some confusion over 
what Amtrust would be funding Mr Ms solicitors to do but thought this had been put right 
quickly and it was reasonable it communicated with Mr Ms solicitors about this. 
Mr M didnt agree. He provided detailed comments in response to the view. In summary he 
argued:
The initial prospects assessment contained errors and he didnt accept this was well 
reasoned or that it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on it. The assessment said 
information was missing but this had been provided or was never requested. 
When he asked what further information was required he wasnt given a clear response 
(Mr M says Amtrust was involved in these discussions). And Amtrust told him that 
funding wouldnt be provided for the claim despite the fact the panel solicitors had said 
the property damage element did have prospects of success but that further information 
was required on repair costs.
The court action that was taken against him by the neighbours should have been funded 
by Amtrust as a separate claim as this was completely different to the initial claim he 
made against his neighbours; Mr M said it only came about because of lack of action by 
Amtrust. Mr M said he was requesting action be initiated against the neighbours from 
October 2019 and told Amtrust about issues with a water supply problem from April 2020 
but these requests were not responded to. 
Mr M says he was told counsels opinion would be obtained many months before this 
actually took place. And he said Amtrust provided confusing information about obtaining 
a solicitors opinion initially saying this was required but then moving straight to obtaining 
counsels opinion. After that opinion was obtained his solicitors asked Amtrust to allow a 
conference to discuss this but Amtrust didnt agree to fund this. Nor did it agree to fund 
the additional evidence the barrister said was required.
Overall he didnt consider the two year timeframe for the matter to be dealt with was 
reasonable. Mr M said his neighbours court proceedings against him commenced a few 
days after the decision on funding for his claim was made. The delays in progressing the 
claim put him in a position where he then had no choice but to instruct solicitors himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware that Mr M has some very significant health problems. I dont doubt that 
theyve had a considerable impact on him and I was very sorry to learn of the difficult 
situation hes in. However, the issue I need to consider is what, if anything, Amtrust got 
wrong in dealing with the claim he made to it. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I note in correspondence Mr M has gone into considerable detail about the issues of concern 
to him and raised numerous points. I do understand why this matter is so important to him 
but I dont think its either practical or necessary for me to respond to each individual point of 
concern.
Instead Ive sought to focus on what, in my view, are the key issues, thinking in particular
about where any error by Amtrust is likely to have had an impact on Mr M which would
warrant a remedy. And Im considering those actions only up until the point counsels opinion 
was obtained in October 2020.I think its also important to stress that in doing so Im only 
considering the actions of his insurer (or its agents and claims handlers). I cant consider a 
complaint about the actions of the solicitors appointed to act for him.
 
It does seem to me a number of the points Mr M has raised do relate to what he feels the 
panel solicitors got wrong or his disagreement with the legal judgements that have been 
reached by those solicitors or the barrister on his case (I note in response to the 
investigators view Mr M went into some detail about why he disagrees with counsels 
opinion). Those arent matters for me; I understand that Mr M has pursued a complaint 
against the panel solicitors with the appropriate complaints body. 
Mr M has also raised concerns about the insurer of his home insurance policy. However, Im 
aware Mr M has a separate complaint with our service relating to that insurer. In this 
decision Im only considering the issues which relate to his legal expenses insurance policy 
which Amtrust is responsible for. 
Was it reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the prospects assessment produced by the panel 
solicitors?
In common with other legal expenses insurance policies Mr Ms says cover wont be 
provided where a claim doesnt have prospects of success (which it defines as you do not 
have a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome). 
Thats something we think should be assessed by a qualified lawyer with the legal 
knowledge and expertise needed to advise on whether a case is likely to succeed in court. 
And we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written and reasoned legal 
opinion on whether a claim has prospects of succeeding or not.
So I think it was right in this case that Amtrust asked panel solicitors to consider whether the 
claim Mr M was making did have prospects of success. Ive read the legal opinion from that 
firm and I can see it considers and expresses a legal opinion on the prospects of success of 
the different elements of the claim Mr M was making. And it gives reasons for the 
judgements it reaches. The panel firm has confirmed the assessment was by a qualified 
solicitor and provided her year of qualification. 
After the assessment was produced, I understand Mr M had further contact with the panel 
solicitors about that opinion. But I havent seen evidence to show he was in contact with 
Amtrust. The information from its records shows it was receiving updates from the panel 
solicitors which said Mr M was compiling information to explain why he disagreed with the 
assessment. And I think it was in any case for the panel solicitors to provide Mr M with any 
clarification on the legal opinion theyd reached on his claim. Mr M has suggested that information was missing from the assessment because it either 
hadnt been requested or had already been submitted. But Amtrust isnt responsible for the 
document. The question is whether, on receipt, it was reasonable of it to rely on that opinion 
in concluding the claim Mr M made didnt have reasonable prospects of success. I note the 
concerns Mr M has raised about that assessment but I dont think Amtrust had any 
reasonable grounds to dispute the legal opinion it set out. 
However, while that opinion did say a number of the elements of Mr Ms claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success it also said a claim for property damage (to a shared 
driveway and access road) did. But in order to decide whether that claim was proportionate 
to pursue Mr M would need to provide evidence of the cost of the repair work. 
So, once Amtrust was provided with a copy of the prospects assessment, I think it was 
wrong to then advise Mr M that the claim in its entirety didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. However, I dont think thats delayed the progress of the claim. Amtrusts email to 
Mr M did make clear that if he was able to provide further information it would arrange for the 
panel solicitor to review this. And Mr M was aware from the opinion that he needed to 
provide evidence of the cost of repair work for this element of the claim to progress and it 
doesnt appear he was able to do so at that time (I note the counsels opinion that was 
subsequently produced references one repair quote dated September 2020).  
Should Amtrust have considered the action Mr Ms neighbours took against him as a 
separate claim; was there a failure to respond to him about this issue?
Mr M told Amtrust in July 2020 that his neighbours were taking action against him in relation 
to a water supply issue. I havent seen clear evidence to show he told Amtrust about these 
issues prior to that. And whether this was logged as a separate claim or not in order for 
Amtrust to provide funding for that claim it would also need to meet the policy terms (which 
include the requirement that it have reasonable prospects of success). 
This issue was considered by counsel who concluded that, on the basis of the evidence he 
had, Mr M wasnt entitled to have refused access for the water pipe works and the 
neighbours were likely to be awarded sums under this head of claim. Counsel made clear 
that other evidence Mr M had referred to could make a difference here but noted this hadnt 
been provided to him. 
I dont think whether this should have been logged as a separate claim or not makes a 
difference  if this claim had prospects of success and otherwise met the terms of the policy 
funding could have been provided for it. The difficulty for Mr M is that, on the basis of the 
evidence counsel had available at that time, it didnt. That would have been the case 
whether a separate claim was logged or not.
Did Amtrust act correctly in relation to obtaining counsels opinion on the case
Mr M says he was told counsels opinion would be obtained months before this actually took 
place. And I can see that panel solicitors did recommend to Amtrust in May 2020 that 
counsel be approached to bring finality to the matter. 
Amtrust considered doing so but decided it wouldnt be appropriate because although Mr M 
was clearly unhappy with the prospects assessment he hadnt provided a legal challenge to 
it. I dont think that was unreasonable; as Ive already explained I think Amtrust had a legal 
opinion on prospects they were entitled to rely on. In any case the following month they reconsidered and agreed in the circumstances of this 
case they should seek counsels opinion. I appreciate that was different to the advice Mr M 
was originally given which was that hed need to obtain a solicitors opinion. And the normal 
way for a consumer to challenge a negative prospects assessment would be to obtain a 
positive opinion of their own. Wed then expect an insurer to fund a barristers assessment to 
resolve the difference of view. However, in this case Amtrust agreed to fund that assessment 
without Mr M producing a contrary legal view. So while I appreciate this may have caused 
him some confusion ultimately whats been done is to his benefit. 
Mr M says that was done because Amtrust accepted there had been errors by the panel 
solicitors. But I havent seen evidence of that. The information Ive seen suggest it was 
agreed not because there had been any errors but because the particular circumstances of 
this case (including the significant health issues affecting Mr M) meant that was the fairest 
way forward. I think that was appropriate. 
Was it reasonable of Amtrust to say that further funding for the claim wouldnt be provided 
after counsels opinion had been received?
Counsels opinion on the claim was provided in October 2020. Following that Amtrust wrote 
to Mr Ms solicitors and said its understanding was that prospects hadnt been confirmed for 
any aspect of the claim. However, I dont think that was correct. My reading of the advice is 
that counsel confirmed there were prospects of success in relation to the property damage 
claim (in line with the advice from the previous solicitors) but that these would need to be 
pursued against the responsible parties (as it appeared to be contractors who had caused 
the problem). So Mr M would need to provide further information on who that was. 
As a result Im not persuaded Amtrust were right to say all parts of the claim didnt have 
prospects of success. However, it does appear Mr M (or at least his solicitors) were aware of 
the information that would need to be provided before this property damage claim could be 
progressed. I cant see that information was provided at this time. So I dont think any delay 
in progressing this results from what Amtrust got wrong. And any concerns Mr M has about 
later events fall outside of the period Im considering as part of this complaint.  
Counsel didnt confirm prospects of success for the other parts of the claim. So I think it was 
fair of Amtrust to say that funding wouldnt be provided for these. I appreciate Mr Ms 
solicitors asked if Amtrust would fund a conference call between the parties which it didnt 
agree to do. But it subsequently agreed funding for the solicitors to explain to Mr M what the 
outcome of the opinion was. And it confirmed that if Mr M was able to provide the additional 
information that the barrister had advised was required it would pay for the claim to be 
reassessed. I think that was reasonable. 
Were there more general delays by Amtrust in progressing the claim?
Amtrust received Mr Ms claim in October 2018. It then asked him for further information 
about it. Mr M has suggested the panel firm contacted him in 2018 about the matter but I 
havent seen other evidence of that. In any case I think the request Amtrust made was 
reasonable and I dont think there was then any delay in it providing details of the claim to 
the panel firm. And I understand it was Mr M that requested the prospects assessment 
wasnt completed until hed provided additional information. That assessment was completed in November 2019 but it doesnt appear it was provided to 
Amtrust until the following May; Mr M suggests that happened earlier but I havent seen 
other evidence to show thats the case. In any case it appears during that time Mr M was 
compiling information to explain his position on the assessment and talking to the panel 
solicitors about this. I recognise Mr M is unhappy with the information he was being given by 
the panel solicitors but Amtrust doesnt appear to have been involved in those discussions. 
Once it was aware of what the prospects assessment said (in May 2020) it contacted Mr M 
about next steps and agreed the following month to fund a barristers opinion. And as 
relations between the panel firm and Mr M broke down it then agreed he could use his own 
solicitors. 
I do think that the information it gave him about this could have been clearer; Amtrusts 
agreement was for Mr Ms solicitors to draw up instruction to counsel. However, I can 
understand why Mr M thought the solicitors would be progressing his claim. But as the 
position was clarified within few days I dont think theres more Amtrust needs to do to put 
things right here. And while I appreciate discussions with Mr Ms solicitor over the costs 
Amtrust would pay did take some weeks I dont think there was any delay by Amtrust in 
dealing with this. 
I do appreciate this claim has taken a considerable amount of time to progress but the 
question for me is whether Amtrust is responsible for any significant delays here. For the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think it is.  I accept Mr M did then have to decide for himself (in 
October 2020) how to defend the claim that had been made against him but that was 
because the legal advice was this aspect of his claim didnt meet the policy requirements for 
funding to be provided. I recognise that was difficult for him but it doesnt result from 
something Amtrust got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 
September 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman