DRN-2860503
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC used an incorrect property valuation when 
calculating the redemption sum due on her shared appreciation mortgage.
What happened
Mrs A is represented in this complaint, but for the sake of simplicity Ive referred to the 
submissions made as if they were her own. 
Mrs A, along with her late husband, took out a shared appreciation mortgage in 1998. Under 
the terms of the loan, no interest was charged. Instead, when the time came for redemption, 
Mrs A would have to repay the sum of the loan and associated costs, plus a share of the 
appreciation worth 3-times the loan to value (LTV) ratio of the loan. Shes said that, against a 
property valued at the time as £170,000, she borrowed £42,500  25% LTV. This meant 
that, on redemption, Mrs A had to repay the £42,500 loan, the relevant fees, and 75% of the 
appreciation on the value of the property.
The terms of the SAM set out that the value of the property at the time of redemption is 
calculated by valuation carried out by a qualified valuer/surveyor selected by the lender. 
Although the valuer is selected by the lender, the cost of this valuation is to be met by the 
borrower. In the case of these SAMs, the lender was a wholly owned subsidiary of Barclays 
Bank. But the bank acted in these circumstances to select the valuer and to administer this 
debt.
Around the end of August 2019, a valuer attended Mrs As property and carried out a 
valuation. The valuation report is dated 3 September 2019. He considered the value of the 
property to be £500,000. And so the share of the appreciation Mrs A had to pay to redeem 
the loan was set at £247,500  to which Mrs A also had to add the original loan amount and 
fees.
The property sold in mid-October 2019 for £475,000. And Mrs A has complained that the 
valuation used to calculate the shared appreciation, and hence the redemption amount was 
too high. Had a figure of £475,000 been used, the share of appreciation would have been 
£18,750 less. And Mrs A feels Barclays Bank should refund this sum to her.
Mrs A says the valuer did not take into account the fact that the property needed a new 
septic tank system, that there were structural problems with one of the chimneys, and that 
house prices in the area were falling steadily throughout the period around the sale. 
Barclays Bank said that the valuation was made on the basis that the property was in good 
repair, as the terms of the mortgage required the owner, Mrs A, to keep the property in such 
a condition. They also said the valuer would have taken into account a number of factors in 
coming to the valuation and that Barclays Bank were entitled to rely on the expert and 
independent opinion of the valuer.
Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. However, our 
investigator agreed with Barclays Bank. He said that Barclays Bank were obliged to follow 
the terms of the SAM, as these had been set by the lender. These terms set out how the 
shared appreciation was to be assessed, and that there was a responsibility on the owner to 
keep the property in a good condition. He considered that the valuation had been carried out 
by a qualified expert, based on the property being in good condition. And that the bank had 
acted fairly and reasonably when relying on this valuation to calculate the redemption sum.
As Mrs A remained unsatisfied, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I will explain these below.
The first thing I should say is that the investigator was correct when he said Barclays Bank is 
obliged to follow the terms of the mortgage. It is not the lender and merely acts as the 
administrator. However, I also appreciate that, because of the mechanism around calculating 
the shared appreciation value, any difference in valuation to ultimate sale price will have a 
more pronounced impact than it otherwise might. As such, Barclays Bank is required to 
apply the terms and conditions of the mortgage fairly and reasonably.
The terms of the mortgage set out how the valuation process is to take place. And I can see 
that these were adhered to. An independent, qualified expert was appointed to carry out the 
valuation. And the instructions provided to the valuer were in line with the terms of the 
mortgage. This included the instruction to consider any required repairs to have been 
addressed by the borrower. 
In the case of Mrs As property, it does not seem the valuer was actually aware of the 
condition of the septic system or the chimney. It also seems unlikely that Mrs A was aware of 
these issues. They were only identified by what Mrs A describes as extensive surveys. And 
the valuers role wasnt to carry out a full structural survey, it was merely to assess the value 
of the property on the assumption it was to be sold in good condition. So even if the valuer 
had been aware of the issues, he would have had to value the property on the basis that 
they had been addressed.
Mrs A has also referred to declining property prices in the area around the time in question. 
And has said the valuer failed to take this into account. The valuer has indicated on the 
valuation report that there was a demand for Mrs As type of property and that this demand 
was static. So, it appears this was a consideration that he made when coming to the value. 
And, whilst I note Mrs As comments, I havent been provided with supporting evidence to 
demonstrate the valuer was incorrect. Additionally, the timeframe between the valuation and 
the sale was only about a month and half, so it is not clear what level of impact market 
fluctuations would have had.
Furthermore, if there was any fault in the actual undertaking of the valuation (other than an 
issue with the instructions) that would be something Mrs A would have to take up with the 
valuer. Whilst the valuer was selected by Barclays Bank, the bank is not responsible for the 
performance of this independent expert. And ultimately the bank is entitled to rely on the 
opinion of this expert. 
Lastly, I note that the terms of the SAM do allow for the borrower to request a further 
valuation prior to redeeming the mortgage. This may have altered the amount payable on 
redemption. But it does not appear that this was something Mrs A requested. The issue with the different valuation and sale price wasnt raised until some weeks after the sale had been 
completed and the mortgage had been redeemed. 
Ultimately, my role here is to determine whether Barclays Bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably. In this case, this is largely limited to considering whether it applied the terms of 
the SAM appropriately. I can see that it instructed a qualified independent valuer, that these 
instructions were in line with the requirements of the mortgage, and that the redemption 
amount was calculated correctly based on the report of this expert. As such, whilst I 
appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, I am unable to conclude that Barclays 
Bank has not acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman