DRN-3840763
Complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse her after she fell victim to a scam.
Background
In May 2022, Miss L was looking into the possibility of leasing a car. She found a page on a 
social media platform for a company that purported to arrange leases for top of the range 
cars. She contacted a representative of the company using a popular messaging app and 
enquired about which vehicles were available. Unfortunately, Miss L wasnt in contact with a 
legitimate business, but a scammer. She identified a particular model she was interested in 
and was told shed need to pay a deposit of £3,600 and then £577 per month. At the request 
of the scammer, she made an initial payment of £100 and then £3,500 the following day.
Before making the second of those payments, she called Monzo to ask for advice about 
whether it was safe to proceed. She told the call handler that she was dealing with a family 
firm, it was a genuine limited company and had an entry on Companies House. She also 
said that the business had sent her an invoice. She felt that meant that the agreement theyd 
come to was legally binding. Miss L was nervous about making the payment because shed 
never sent such a large payment before. The call handler explained to Miss L that she 
couldnt give her financial advice. However, a warning would be displayed when she made 
the payment in the app. She was encouraged to read that warning carefully. She proceeded 
to make the second payment to the scammer.
Miss L was concerned when the car wasnt delivered on the date she was promised. She 
wanted to contact the company to ask what had happened, but she realised shed been 
blocked on the app theyd been using to communicate. She told Monzo shed fallen victim to 
a scam. It looked into things but said it wouldnt reimburse her. Miss L was unhappy with that 
and so she referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who 
upheld it.
The Investigator considered the complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. He said that the warning Monzo displayed as part of 
the payment process wasnt an Effective Warning as defined in that code. He didnt think it 
was specific enough to the scam type and was therefore not sufficiently impactful.
He also thought that, since Miss L had phoned Monzo and specifically asked whether or not 
it was safe to proceed with the payment, Monzo had missed an opportunity to question her 
about the payment and possibly warn her verbally about the risks of this type of scam.
The Investigator was also satisfied that Miss L had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
transaction she was entering into was a legitimate one. Shed carried out some basic checks 
to see if the business was genuine. He didnt think that the fact that the arrangement began 
on a social media platform was an indication that this might be a scam since many legitimate 
companies use such platforms to promote themselves.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators view. It argued that Miss L hadnt carried out 
adequate checks before agreeing to make the payment. The entry on the Companies House 
register showed that the company she thought she was dealing with was in the process of 
being liquidated. It thought it was unusual for a legitimate car leasing business to 
communicate with its customers via a social messaging app and to promote itself on social 
media. It also considered the deposit and the monthly cost for a vehicle of this standard to 
be lower than one might expect. It considered the offer was too good to be true and thought 
this shouldve been a warning sign for Miss L.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer makes a payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair 
and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though the payment was 
authorised. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code) is 
of particular significance here. Monzo isnt a signatory to the code, but it has agreed to abide 
by its terms. That means it should reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this 
one in all but a limited number of circumstances. The code sets out several potential 
exceptions to reimbursement and Monzo argues that the following ones are applicable here:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such a warning.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Ive considered the facts of this case carefully and Im not persuaded that either exception is 
applicable here.
I dont find that the warning was an effective warning, as that term is defined in the CRM 
Code. While it contained some relevant information about scams in general, I dont think 
there was anything in it that addressed the type of scam that Miss L had been targeted by. It 
gave examples of four scenarios under which she shouldnt proceed with the payment.  
Three of these werent relevant to her scenario at all. One said that she should stop if the 
offer sounds too good to be true but Im not persuaded that this wouldve been sufficiently 
impactful for reasons Ill discuss later in this decision.
Im also satisfied that Miss L did have a reasonable basis for believing that the business she 
paid was legitimate. I accept that the most well-established car leasing businesses wouldnt 
tout for business or communicate with potential customers on social media in the way that 
happened here. However, there are thousands of companies that operate car leasing businesses in the UK. It certainly seems possible that some will operate their business in 
such a fashion. From what shes told us, Miss L hadnt leased a car before and so I dont 
think it wouldve struck her as unusual that the negotiations took place in the way they did. 
She did carry out some rudimentary checks to satisfy herself that the company she was 
paying was legitimate, including checking the register of limited companies at Companies 
House. I can see that the entry on the register showed that, at the time she was entering into 
this agreement, that company had already entered voluntary liquidation. However, I wouldnt 
expect the typical customer to scrutinise the information on there. It looks as if Miss L simply 
checked to see if the company did genuinely exist and was satisfied that meant it was 
unlikely to be a scam. Finally, while the price does appear to have been lower than the 
typical market price, I think it was close enough to that price for it to have not raised 
suspicions.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. If Miss L accepts my decision, 
Monzo Bank Ltd should reimburse her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman