DRN-2036357
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs L took out in January 
1998. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L disagreed. 
She said, in summary, that:
The store card was offered at a busy till by an assistant keen to earn commission. 
The form was pre-prepared and given to her to provide a quick signature.
There was nobody to explain that the insurance wasnt necessary  there should have 
been a separate desk so that somebody could take time to explain it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs L's case.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs L's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Ive taken into 
account what Mrs L recollects about the shop being so busy but, as I can't be sure what was 
discussed when the PPI sold I've relied more on what the paperwork from the time shows.
I've seen a copy of the application form Mrs L signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Protect your account". The form does not specifically say that PPI is 
optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to tick a box, that it was not a 
requirement of applying for the credit card. 
Mrs L told us the form was pre-completed by the member of staff and she was just asked to 
sign it. And I accept that is most likely what happened. But Im not persuaded that Mrs L 
wouldn't have been able to check through the application before she signed it. The form, and 
the section about PPI, was quite brief, so I think she would have had time to read this, even 
though she was in a busy store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Mrs L that she had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that, despite what she says now, she chose to take it. 
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. And I accept her comments that, had there been a separate desk for store card 
applications, its possible the information about the PPI would have been made clearer. But, 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could have benefited 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. 
Mrs L told us she would have received less than three months pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And that she didnt have any other means to 
meet her repayments. The PPI would have covered her payments until she returned to work, 
or the balance was repaid. It also covered her if shed become unemployed. So it could have 
been a useful benefit for her in her circumstances and given her peace of mind that her 
payments would be covered. So, again, receiving clearer information would not, on balance, 
have changed what happened here.
Finally, It also looks like the PPI was affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mrs L has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman