DRN-3335715
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct (FD), wont refund her 
money that she lost after falling victim to a fraud.
What happened
Mrs Z held a bank account with FD. In early 2020 Mrs Z received a telephone call purporting 
to be from FD. She was told that her account had been accessed by fraudsters and that as a 
member of the bank was suspected to be involved, the matter was being investigated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The caller told Mrs Z that she should expect a call from 
the FCA to discuss next steps.
Mrs Z was contacted by another party claiming to be from the FCA and was instructed to 
mimic the actions of the fraudster and transfer funds from her account to help catch them. 
She was assured that shed receive all of her money back after the investigation was 
concluded so, Mrs Z followed their instructions and made a number of payments from her 
account. The list of payments is extensive, but in summary:
Multiple faster payments to UK based bank accounts totalling circa £160,000
One bank transfer to an international account for £300,000
Unfortunately, it later transpired that Mrs Z was in fact speaking with fraudsters rather than 
her bank and the FCA and that her payments werent being returned. 
Mrs Z complained to FD regarding the transactions carried out. FD looked into Mrs Zs 
complaint and considered the applicable transactions under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM). Having done so, it considered that it could have done more to protect Mrs Z 
and offered to reimburse 50% of her loss. It decided to not reimburse the remaining 50% as 
it felt Mrs Z couldve taken more caution and carried out further checks prior to making the 
payments. It also refused to reimburse the transaction not covered by the CRM for the same 
reason.
Mrs Z remained unhappy with FDs response, so she came to our service. An Investigator 
considered the evidence provided by both parties and upheld the complaint. He felt that FD 
failed to evidence that Mrs Z hadnt met her requisite level of care and so he recommended 
it pay Mrs Z the remaining 50% for the payments covered by the CRM Code.
He also recommended that FD repay the remaining payment not covered by the CRM. He 
felt that the payment in question was out of character for Mrs Zs account and should have 
been questioned more thoroughly by FD considering previous account activity. He 
concluded that further intervention and probing likely would have uncovered the scam and 
resulted in Mrs Z not going ahead with the payment. 
FD refunded the remaining 50% of payments covered by the CRM on a goodwill basis, but it 
didnt agree it should refund the remaining payment not covered by the code. Broadly 
speaking, FD felt that it challenged the payment sufficiently; it also pointed out that Mrs Z 
knowingly gave it false responses to security questions. It added that Mrs Z was negligent in 
her own conduct considering that the circumstances were suspicious and implausible: but 
not questioned by her. Lastly, it said that Mrs Z had failed to carry out sufficient verification 
checks on the person calling to ensure their legitimacy.
As FD disagreed with the Investigators findings, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As FD has now reimbursed Mrs Z the remaining 50% of payments covered by the CRM, all 
thats left for me to decide is whether the international payment of £300,000, which isnt 
covered under the remit of the CRM Code, should be refunded.
Should FD have done more to identify and prevent the fraud?
Its not contested that Mrs Z authorised the payment in dispute. She was duped into sending 
the money by a fraudster as she thought she was assisting with an investigation. Broadly 
speaking, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 sets out that Mrs Z will be liable for 
payments shed authorised, and FD would be liable for ones shed not. So, the starting point 
here is that Mrs Z should be held responsible for the amount lost. But there are further points 
to consider here.
As well as having an obligation to process payments in line with its customers instruction, 
FD also have a responsibility to protect them from financial harm and ensure payments are 
for legitimate purposes. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider FD should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
 
FD did speak with Mrs Z prior to processing the international payment of £300,000, so it 
seems to me they did identify the payment was out of character and that Mrs Z might be at 
risk of financial harm. It asked a number of security questions and did provide warnings 
regarding common frauds. So, Ive gone on to consider if these conversations were good 
enough in the circumstances.
Mrs Z was provided with a cover story by the fraudsters to give to FD when making the 
payment. Im satisfied this why Mrs Z wasnt honest about the purpose of the payment. This 
is not an uncommon feature when it comes to scams and cover stories are something Id 
expect HSBC to be on the lookout for. The reason a customer gives for a payment shouldnt 
necessarily be taken at face value, particularly when a firm has already identified the 
payment as being out of character and unusual.Mrs Z claimed that she was making the payment for a property purchase in the country 
where the payment was being made to. She confidently provided this testimony and 
answered any further questions asked about it. She claimed that her friend had an identical 
property that shed seen personally. She also claimed that the company she was transacting 
with was trusted by her and recommended by a friend who had used them before.
I also accept that during the telephone calls Mrs Z had with FD, she was given multiple 
warnings about common frauds. These include:
A warning regarding criminals pretending to be from organisations, such as the bank.
Warnings regarding email intercept scams and the importance of confirming banking 
information that has been received via email.
Questions on whether Mrs Z was being forced or coerced into making the payment.
FD also asked Mrs Z to go away and confirm the banking information over the telephone 
with the business she was transacting with to ensure an email interception hadnt taken 
place. Mrs Z contacted FD the following day and told the advisor shed done this, and the 
details were confirmed. But, of course, this wasnt the scam type that Mrs Z had fallen victim 
to.
If this payment had been made in isolation, then I think the amount of probing and 
questioning was probably sufficient. Mrs Z was providing false testimony due to the coaching 
from the fraudster and was confident in her answers. But this wasnt an isolated payment.
Mrs Z had made or attempted a number of paymentstotalling £83,800to the fraudsters 
prior to the instruction of the £300,000 payment. These were typically high in value
between £3,800-£19,000, out of character for Mrs Zs normal account activity, to two new 
payees and carried out over a short space of time: within three days. I therefore find that the 
payment of £300,000, considered within this context, should have presented a significant 
concern to FD that Mrs Z was at risk of financial harm from fraud. And as a result, I dont 
think the conversation it had with her was good enough.
In addition to just the volume of payments, the payments also had some unusual features. 
One had been returned to Mrs Zs account as the beneficiary account had been closed: a 
possible indicator of fraud. Furthermore, prior to the payment being authorised, Mrs Z made 
FD aware that a loan had been taken out in her name, without her consent.
Considering that all the above activity had been carried out on Mrs Zs account within close 
proximity to the £300,000 payment, I find that this presented some concerning trends, not 
only for the payment, but for Mrs Zs account in general. For these reasons, I find FD should 
have gone further than questioning the £300,000 in isolation. It should fairly and reasonably 
have probed the combined activity on the account and the purpose for each, or at least 
several, of the payments leading up to the substantial payment she was attempting to make. 
While I acknowledge Mrs Zs convincing testimony regarding the individual payment, Im not 
persuaded shed have been able to do this, on the spot, when trying to explain the activity in 
its entirety.
Mrs Zs account wasin my viewdisplaying typical characteristics of a fraud, particularly 
indicative of a safe account scam. And this, combined with Mrs Zs likely lack of ability to 
respond fully to questions regarding her account activity, would have raised concerns and 
suspicions rather than quelled them. FD did have the discretion to request supporting 
documentation to support Mrs Zs claim that the payment was being made for the purchase 
of a property, and I find there were enough red flags here to have warranted this. But I dont 
think its likely Mrs Z would have been able to produce these documents or support her 
claim(s) about this payment, or the previous payments, as they simply werent true.I find that had this taken place, its likely FD wouldnt have proceeded to process the 
payment and likely would have explored the fact that Mrs Z was being defrauded further. Im 
persuaded that this in turn would more likely than not have prevented Mrs Z from losing the 
funds.
I do accept that FD attempted to warn Mrs Z about the scam she fell victim towhich 
suggests to me it did consider this to be a possibility. But I also dont think the intervention 
was good enough. They didnt go into any impactful detail of how safe account scams are 
typically perpetrated and/or common features of them, such as how sophisticated 
impersonations can be and the claim that fraudsters tend to make regarding helping them 
with a fraud investigation.
Should Mrs Z bear some responsibility for the loss?
There are times where it may be fair for a customer to share responsibility for the loss of 
funds. These may include instances where, but not exclusively, theyve not taken reasonable 
steps to confirm the legitimacy of the person instructing them to make payments. Or, where 
theyve ignored clear indicators of a fraud or risk.
Here, Mrs Z was initially contacted by a person claiming to be from her bank (FD) and was 
convinced they were genuine by the fact that they knew her account balance and a 
transaction that had recently been made on her account. They told her that there was some 
unauthorised activity on her account, and shed have to take action to protect it. The caller 
claimed that a member of the bank was suspected of the activity and a regulatory body was 
investigating the matter and would be in touch at a later date. 
I dont find it to be unreasonable that Mrs Z believed the person calling her. It would have 
been unlikely that a third-party would have access to such in-depth information relating to 
her account and it isnt uncommon for banks to call their customers. Furthermore, the 
fraudster wasnt asking Mrs Z to do anything, they were merely relaying information and 
telling her to await a further call. Mrs Z was also told that an employee of the bank was 
suspected of the activity, so I find it reasonable that her trust in contacting the bank to seek 
any further clarification was damaged.
Following this, Mrs Z received a call from a so-called representative of the regulatory body. 
Mrs Z did challenge the callers authenticity and was told to verify the number they were 
calling from via the official bodys website. Mrs Z did this and discovered the numbers 
matched.
These are sophisticated and convincing social engineering tactics. Mrs Z was given a 
number of reassurances by the fraudsters that they were genuine. And to compound this, 
Mrs Z was in, what she describes as, a vulnerable position at the time of the call. Shed 
recently lost her long-term partner, was anxious about entering a lockdown in self isolation 
due to her personal circumstances and was worried due to major surgery being delayed due 
to the pandemic.
Mrs Z was convinced that her actions were assisting an investigation and would help catch 
the perpetrator responsible by making the transfers. The fraudsters added a further layer of 
callous and sophisticated tactics by convincing Mrs Z that she shouldnt discuss the matter 
with anyone; cutting off any support that she may have been able to seek from friends and 
family. 
I dont find that Mrs Zs actions were reckless or threw caution to wind. Im persuaded she 
was likely under an immense amount of pressure to perform the instruction of the fraudster, 
believing them to be a trusted body. And any sounding board she may have normally used to seek a second opinion was cut off from her. 
For the above reasons, I dont find that Mrs Z should bear any responsibility for the loss.
Putting things right
HSBC ought to have reasonably done better in identifying and preventing the fraud that took 
place. As Ive said above, had it done so, its in my view that it could have prevented Mrs Zs 
loss. As such, it should reimburse her the remaining funds lost.
Mrs Z has told our service that the money transferred out of the account had originated from 
a number of sources. Partly ISA savings and partly stocks and shares investments. Had the 
fraud been prevented, Mrs Z is unsure what she may have done with the funds shed drawn 
from her savings and investments. But it has been suggested that they likely would have 
been placed into a savings account with some being placed in yearly allowance ISA 
accounts.
As Mrs Z didnt have a savings account to obtain interest rates from, Ive asked FD for their 
standard savings account interest rates. I think this is the fairest way to resolve a 
complicated and unknown interest rate to reflect putting Mrs Z back into the position she 
would have been in. FD has confirmed that their interest rate is 0.10% per annum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
trading as First Direct, to:
Pay Mrs Z £300,000
Pay interest on the amount of 0.10% per annum from the date the payment was 
made to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman