DRN-4132735
The complaint
Mr S complains that Target Servicing Limited have prevented him from getting a new fixed 
rate on his first charge mortgage. Mr S said he wanted to come out of is existing mortgage 
deal to secure a lower interest rate and provide protection for future interest rate rises but 
Target declined his request.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with his existing lender in 2018 to purchase a property with the 
assistance of the help to buy scheme.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr S property is in England, and he took the loan out with Homes England, which 
was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an executive agency and 
non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and 
Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase price to the 
borrower to enable them to buy a home. 
Mr S originally borrowed £209,000 over a term of 29 years  on a capital repayment method. 
He took this mortgage out on a 2.37% five-year fixed rate. He said he wanted to come out of 
this deal in order to secure a lower interest rate and protect himself from future interest rate 
rises. So he wanted to remortgage in October 2021 to another lender who was offering a 
five-year fixed rate at 1.18%. Mr S was aware that he would be charged an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to come out of his existing deal early. 
Because the help to buy loan is secured over his property by way of a second charge, his 
new lender needed Target to agree to a deed of postponement  so that when the old lender 
removed their charge, the new lender could take first charge ahead of the help to buy loan.
Target received an email from Mr S solicitor on 11 January 2022 which included the deed of 
postponement, the new mortgage offer (which was due to expire at the end of March 2022), 
and a redemption statement from his existing lender. The redemption statement showed a 
total amount payable of £198,295.31 which included an ERC of £5,773.26.
Mr S sent Target an email on 17 January 2022, and he provided various documents 
including the first page of the offer for his current mortgage, an annual statement and proof 
of payment of the deed of postponement fee which was £115.
On 17 February 2022, Target requested a copy of the full mortgage offer with Mr S existing 
lender and Mr S provided this shortly after on 23 February 2022 and Mr S solicitor chased 
Target on the same day on the deed of postponement. 
Target responded to Mr S and his solicitor on 25 February 2022 and said they noticed that 
the mortgage offer with the new lender was £5,558 higher than the current mortgage 
balance  so they are asked Mr S for a breakdown of what he intended to use this money 
for. 
Mr Ss solicitor responded on the same day explaining that the difference in the balance was 
not that amount, and they provided the redemption statement again. The solicitor pointed out 
that the existing mortgage balance was £196,493.19 and the new mortgage offer was for 
£198,000.
Mr S solicitor then chased Target again on 16 March 2022 to find out what was holding up 
the re-mortgage. 
Mr S then called Target on 21 March 2022 and he was told that Target had declined his 
request because the ERC was included in the amount he wanted to borrow. Mr S then 
complained to Target who responded and said there was a condition in the help to buy 
agreement under section 10.1 which said they didnt allow further borrowing of more than 
£2,000 unless it was specifically for home improvements, medical reasons or due to a court 
order. Target confirmed they were not upholding Mr S complaint and declined his request.
Mr S wasnt happy with what Target said so he brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint and didnt think that Target had acted fairly. He said that he didnt 
agree with Targets interpretation of the condition under 10.1 as he thought it did allow an 
ERC to be added to the mortgage as long as the mortgage balance wasnt higher than the 
original mortgage balance when it was taken out. 
He said that Target had delayed the process for Mr S which now meant he had lost out on 
the original interest rate of 1.18% that he wanted to apply for so thought that Target should 
calculate the difference in the interest rates so they could put Mr S back in the position he 
would have been in before. He also thought that Target should pay Mr S £250 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr S accepted this as did Target. However, Target changed their mind two months later and 
said they didnt agree. They re-iterated the same point about the condition 10.1 within the 
help to buy agreement and didnt think they declined Mr S request unfairly. Target also said 
that Mr S hadnt allowed enough time for the process as it would have taken six to eight 
weeks for the deed of postponement to be approved. 
Our investigator contacted Target again to explain that his stance hadnt changed and that 
his outcome remained the same. Target then responded and said that they were working 
with Homes England on this case and needed their guidance on how to proceed, so they 
said they would wait for the decision before taking any further action regarding redress. So 
the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence I have been provided with, I agree with the outcome that our 
investigator has made.
Its disappointing to note that Target originally accepted the outcome of our investigator and 
changed their minds two months later. This has had an impact on Mr S as the mortgage 
interest rates that were available previously, are now much higher. 
Target has argued that they requested information from Mr S and his solicitor to find out if 
the ERC was payable as they never received confirmation of that. Target said that had they 
of received this confirmation, they would have sent the deed of postponement as it would 
have been within their tolerance band (under £2,000) based on the difference in the 
mortgage balance and the new mortgage offer. Im not sure this is correct. 
The initial redemption statement was sent to Target early on and its very clear that the ERC 
is included in the outstanding mortgage balance. Mr S solicitor also reconfirmed this in their 
email on 25 February 2022. Mr S was not borrowing any further funds other than to remortgage and included the ERC he was due to pay with his existing lender in the new total 
borrowing. 
Im persuaded that Target had this information and because of the delay in letting Mr S know 
that his request was declined, he has missed out on the fixed rate mortgage that he wanted 
to take secure. I also think based on the timescales above, Mr S had given plenty of notice 
for the deed of postponement to go through which would have meant he would have 
completed by March 2022.
I have looked at the help to buy agreement, specifically section 10.1 and I agree with our 
investigator that Targets interpretation of this isnt quite right. 
It states:
10 Provisos
10.1 This mortgage shall have priority immediately after one (1) prior legal charge 
(including any further advances issued in accordance with that legal charge for the 
purposes below) securing an amount advanced to the Borrower by a lending 
institution which is a Qualifying Lender for purposes of enabling the Borrower to:
10.1.1 acquire the Property; or
10.1.2 fund improvements in the Property which have been approved by the Lender; 
or
10.1.3 redeem a sum pursuant to Clause 7 or 8; or
10.1.4 refinance an existing loan made in accordance with this clause 10.1;
provided that such legal mortgage (or any further advances) is approved in advance in 
writing by the Lender and the capital sum advanced under such legal mortgage (or as a 
further advance as applicable) does not exceed, where clause 10.1.1 applies, the sum equal 
to the initial Market Value less the Contribution and any deposit paid by the Borrower of 
where clause 10.1.2 applies, the amount payable in respect of such improvements or where 
clause 10.1.3 applies, the sum required to redeem a sum pursuant to Clause 7 or 8 or where 
10.1.4 applies, the amount originally borrowed under the existing loan (plus any further 
advances) as approved in accordance with Clause 10.1.
I think this does allow the ERC to be added to the mortgage  even if it was above £2,000  
so long as the balance of the mortgage at that time, including the ERC, was less than the 
amount that was originally borrowed. Mr S was borrowing less than he did when he originally 
took the mortgage out in 2018  even with the ERC added. So I think that Target should 
have accepted his request. Because they didnt, Mr S is still on the same fixed rate that he 
wanted to come out of and is paying more than he would have been otherwise. 
He has made it clear that with interest rates rising, he wanted to protect himself and he 
found a lower interest rate which was fixed for five-years, which would have enabled him to 
do so. He was aware he was paying an ERC but still wanted to go ahead to secure a lower 
rate and protect himself from future rises  for at least the next five years as his current 
mortgage deal is due to expire in October 2023. He said he has spoken to a mortgage 
broker who told him this was still worthwhile doing. 
Target only told Mr S that his request was declined just over a week before his mortgage 
offer was due to expire so he didnt possibly have enough time to make other arrangements 
 which could have included sourcing the funds from somewhere to pay off the ERC himself 
without borrowing the extra money on the mortgage. But because the rates had since 
increased, he didnt feel this was a viable option for him anymore  and I am persuaded by 
what he has said. Putting things right
I do agree that Target need to calculate the difference in the mortgage interest rate that Mr S 
could have secured  1.18% against the rates that he is paying and will be paying over the 
next few years. 
Our investigator had recommended that Target calculate the payments on the rate of 1.18% 
against his existing deal of 2.37% from March 2022 and then calculate the 1.18% against the 
rates that were available to Mr S  which was 4.52%. But this rate has since increased since 
Target changed their mind so the rate that it would need to be calculated against is 5.45% 
based on the current five-year fixed deal available on the loan to value of Mr S property.
We have contacted Target separately to let them know this rate is now higher. However, 
Target will need to bear in mind that by the time they calculate the redress, this rate could 
have well increased so they will need to check with Mr S to see if this rate is still current or if 
they have in fact increased  or decreased  however this is possibly unlikely. 
Mr S has also confirmed that he has not taken a new rate with his existing lender and is still 
currently on a rate of 2.37%. 
Target should also pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr S 
has explained the upset and worry he has had to go through due to interest rates constantly 
rising and the impact that this has had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Calculate the difference between the interest rate that Mr S would have paid on the 
fixed rate deal he was offered in October 2021  1.18% - against what he has paid 
on his existing fixed rate deal of 2.37%. They will then need to work out what Mr S 
will pay on a comparable five-year fixed rate on offer now which is 5.45%* and pay 
the difference to him. This calculation should be for the period of March 2022 (as the 
remortgage would have completed by then) up to 31 December 2026  which is 
when the 1.18% five-year fixed would have expired.
Pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
*Target will need to check with Mr S to see if this rate is still the same and base their 
calculation on the rate of 5.45% or the new rate they are given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman