DRN-1379880
 
The complaint
Mr O complains about a delay in him receiving a replacement debit card and the poor 
service he says he received including in branch.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr O has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclays says it dispatched two debit cards to Mr O, but he says he didnt receive 
them. That wasnt something we can hold Barclays responsible for as it sent them to 
Mr Os correct address and it was reasonable for it to do so by first class post rather 
than registered mail.
A third card was sent and it arrived. Mr O was ultimately without a debit card for over 
three weeks and had to go into his nearest branch. Although this was undoubtedly 
inconvenient for Mr O, I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for this. It clearly 
did all it reasonably could to ensure he had a new card as soon as possible and to 
put things right. There was also no monetary loss.
Theres also no evidence Mr O was mistreated in the branch and Barclays was 
entitled to ask him some more security questions when he wanted to make a large 
cash withdrawal without his debit card. Even so Barclays has apologised and said it 
would learn from what happened in the branch. 
Barclays has credited Mr Os account with £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
he experienced. Mr O says this isnt enough, and he wants £50 a day. But I think that 
would be too much. Taking everything into account, including the fact Barclays hasnt 
made an error and the level of awards we make, I think its offer of £50 compensation 
is fair. And I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do or pay any more as Mr O would 
like.
 
For these reasons I think Barclays has dealt with Mr O fairly. And, although I recognise his 
strength of feeling, I do not uphold this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman