DRN-3237958
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from falling victim to an 
online investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2019 a series of payments were made on 
Mr Gs Lloyds Visa debit card. These took place between June and August 2019 and totalled 
around £6,200.
Mr G later realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to Lloyds. Ultimately, 
Lloyds said they werent able to assist under the chargeback scheme. They said that 
although Mr G believed hed been dealing with a merchant M, the payments had all gone to 
genuine crypto-currency exchanges, who had most likely provided the services requested of 
them. 
Mr G complained and when Lloyds maintained their position, the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he agreed that Lloyds decision about chargeback was fair. And he also thought 
that it was fair for Lloyds to hold him liable for the debit card payments (despite Mr G alleging 
that one of them wasnt authorised). 
As Mr G still disagrees, hes asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
There is a balance to be struck between looking out for unusual payments that might be 
being made as the result of a fraud or scam and allowing customers free access to their 
money. The largest single payment here was around £2,000 and they were all spread over a 
number of weeks. There were other genuine payments made of comparable amounts from 
the account in recent times. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the 
payments that were made on Mr Gs debit card as a result of the scam were so unusual that 
it would have been reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time. 
Mr Gs testimony in relation to one of his payments is that he handed over his debit card 
details to M for the purposes of receiving a withdrawal from his trading account which at that 
time was showing a profit. But he says a further payment ended up being taken from his 
card, rather than it being credited with the withdrawal. I agree with our Investigator that 
Lloyds should have picked up on this and considered the authorisation of the payment. 
There is also a suggestion within Mr Gs submissions that this happened in relation to his 
final two payments, but having listened to the calls between Mr G and Lloyds at the time, Im 
satisfied this was only in relation to the final payment.  
Ive gone on to think carefully about whether this was therefore an authorised payment. Im 
prepared to accept Mr Gs testimony that he was tricked and that he didnt consent to the 
final payment being taken from his account. But the relevant regulations still allow Mr G to be 
held liable for this transaction if he failed with gross negligence to keep his security details 
secure. A One Time Passcode (OTP) was used to authorise this payment. Lloyds have 
clarified that their OTP says words to the effect of only fraudsters would ask you to share 
this code. Beyond this, Mr Gs own testimony is that he shared this code with M. He also 
says that he noticed that the OTP message referred to a payment leaving his account, rather 
than crediting it. He says he challenged this with the person from M he was speaking to at 
the time and was just told it would in fact be a credit despite appearing as a debit. The terms 
of Mr Gs account also require him not to share any security details with others. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think Mr G acted with gross negligence in these 
circumstances. The OTP would have warned against sharing it with anyone. Further to this, 
it seems Mr G himself noticed the difference between what M were telling him and what the 
OTP message said. But despite noticing this difference, he still just accepted what M said 
and went on to share the OTP which enabled the payment. And whilst I appreciate the bar 
for gross negligence is and should be high, I think it has been met in this case. Mr G 
identified a risk prior to sharing the OTP, and he continued in any case with minimal 
reassurance from M. Had Mr G not done so, the payment wouldnt have gone through. 
Overall, I dont think Lloyds could or should have prevented the payments being made. And I 
think its most likely that the payments that were made, were either authorised by Mr G, or 
where that wasnt the case (the final payment) its still fair that he is held liable for the 
reasons explained above. 
Chargeback
Whilst Mr G may have been speaking with and believed he was dealing with M, his 
payments went to two different crypto-currency exchanges (J and X). It is only possible to 
raise a chargeback with the merchant that receives a payment. As such, it seems most likely 
that J and X did what was asked of them, that is they converted Mr Gs money into crypto-
currency and passed it on to the wallet address provided. As such, any chargeback was 
destined to fail as the requested service had been provided and so the merchants were 
entitled to keep the funds theyd been paid in that regard. 
I dont think Lloyds failing to pursue chargebacks was an unreasonable exercise of their 
discretion, as I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of them succeeding. 
Summary
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr G lost money in this way. But I dont think Lloyds 
reasonably could have prevented this, or that they should have done more to try to recover 
his money. And as such, I cant fairly ask them to do more to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman