DRN-1493194
The complaint
Miss B feels that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation for short) has treated her 
unfairly in relation to the purchase of a mattress.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss B purchased from a bed merchant a mattress using a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement with Creation to pay for it. Shortly after its delivery Miss B decided she didnt 
want the mattress anymore as she felt it wasnt fit for purpose and wanted a refund. Miss B 
suffers from serious medical conditions which mean comfortable sleeping is important to her. 
Miss B called the Merchant and the Merchant says it told her she could exchange it after 30 
days, but a refund wasnt available under the terms and conditions. Miss B says she didnt 
want to exchange because she didnt feel that this was fair. Having reached deadlock with 
the Merchant she complained to Creation.
Creation looked into the matter, but it felt that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that there wasnt a breach of contract or material misrepresentation in the sale of the 
mattress. So it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong and so it didnt have any more to 
do. Miss B felt this wasnt fair. So she complained here.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B doesnt 
agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation and Miss B dont agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Miss B says she wants to bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 and other relevant legislation. The general effect of section 75 is that if Miss B has a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she 
can also bring that claim against Creation provided certain conditions are met. Ive 
considered these conditions and am satisfied that they are met in these particular 
circumstances.
I can see the Merchant made clear soon after Miss B raised concerns with it that it does an 
exchange after 30 days. Miss B says she didnt want to do an exchange it because she 
believes she bought the most expensive mattress the merchant had and consequently shed 
suffer a loss of sorts as any exchange would be for a cheaper mattress. Ive considered this 
and considered the Merchants offering. I note it sells a number of mattresses at the same 
size and of the same brand for significantly more than the mattress here. And it sells more 
expensive mattresses of other brands also. So I think Miss B could have exchanged and not 
suffered the loss she points to.
Miss B says she wanted to exercise her short term right to reject the mattress. But she can 
only do this if the goods are of unsatisfactory quality, not fit for purpose or not as described. 
Miss B says she finds the bed very uncomfortable and cannot sleep on it. But she hasnt 
argued that the mattress delivered to her was not the one she bought or that its different to 
the description of the one she bought. She accepts she got what she bought-the issue is she 
doesnt sleep well on it.
Miss B says its not fit for purpose as she cannot sleep on it. But this isnt a mattress that was 
designed or build for her particular individual sleep needs. It is a mass-produced mattress 
that is widely available. People generally (and also people with the same conditions Miss B 
has) are all different shapes and sizes and have differing individual sleep requirements. Miss 
B points to some advertising and what she says the Merchants representative in the store 
said about the quality of sleep shed have on this mattress. Clearly such adverts and 
comments are made generally and arent implying that this particular mattress was designed 
for her specific requirements. Or that there was any sort of guarantee that all people were 
guaranteed to sleep well on it. 
So although Miss B says she doesnt sleep well on it doesnt mean its not good for sleeping 
generally or that its not fit for purpose for people generally or people with the same 
conditions as she has. And although Miss B is right in her argument that the goods have to 
be fit for their intended purpose (in this case -being slept on) Im not persuaded this mattress 
isnt fit to be slept on or that someone with her condition cannot sleep on it. I think this is a 
personal taste situation where she doesnt like sleeping on it. But this doesnt mean its not 
objectively fit for purpose (sleeping) for people generally or people with her conditions.
Miss B hasnt described any particular fault with the mattress. She just doesnt like sleeping 
on it. So Im not persuaded that this mattress is of unsatisfactory quality, not fit for purpose 
or not as described. So I dont think Miss B can reject it.
Miss B has pointed to wanting to cancel within fourteen days. But this only comes into play 
for distance selling under the Consumer Contract Regulations. As Miss B went into store and 
tried other mattresses but then decided to order a different mattress and did so in store I 
dont think these regulations apply here. Just because she bought a specific mattress with 
particular specifications which wasnt in store at the time doesnt make this distance selling. 
And having considered the Merchants terms and conditions Im satisfied that the only option 
it offered was an exchange-which Miss B has chosen not to take. The Merchant is entitled to 
run its commercial enterprise as it sees fit. And as long as its sales processes dont 
contravene any regulation or laws or are unfair or unreasonable, this service wouldnt get 
involved in such matters. Miss B had the option of exchange and didnt take it.
So overall Im not persuaded that the Merchant has breached the contract it has with Miss B. 
But was Miss B materially misrepresented into purchasing the mattress?
Miss B has explained in detail what she says was said to her in the store the day she bought 
this mattress. Our Investigator has spoken to the Merchants employee who advised Miss B 
the day she bought it and I have listened to that call. The employee says they remember the 
sale well and described various facets of what happened. They say theyve been an 
employee for over two years and know the Merchants sales processes and policies 
regarding such situations where buyers are unhappy with their purchases from the 
merchants. He says that he didnt incorrectly describe the Merchants policy on returns or exchanges to Miss B. So having considered this and my earlier comments Im not persuaded 
that Miss B was materially misrepresented into buying the mattress.
Ive also seen an email written shortly after Miss B called the business (shortly after 
receiving the mattress). In this it describes the content of that call and that Miss B was told at 
that time what the Merchants policy was. I think this written relatively contemporaneous note 
is more persuasive to me of the events than Miss Bs recollections sometime later. So I dont 
think shes been treated unfairly with regard to her options after the purchase. Miss B has 
pointed to a 100 day return policy on the brand of mattress she bought. But this policy is only 
available when she buys that brand mattress from that specific brand retailer. But she didnt 
buy this mattress from the brand retailer, she bought it from the Merchant in this case. And 
this merchant only offered exchange.
Ultimately this is a complaint about Creation and under the legislation it is equally liable as 
the merchant where breach of contract or misrepresentation is found. But Ive considered 
how Creation have considered Miss Bs claim and Im not persuaded it has treated her 
unfairly or unreasonably. In response to our Investigators view Miss B points to the Mattress 
being extra-large width leading her to have to get new sheets. She was buying a new 
Mattress and got what she bought. I dont think it fair to hold Creation responsible for this 
because Ive not found theyve treated her unfairly. And Im not persuaded that it or the 
Merchant were asked to sell a mattress to fit her sheets.
Miss B points to calls with the employee in the Merchants store. Our investigator asked for 
these call recordings, but its been confirmed these calls are not recorded. But bearing in 
mind Ive heard the call between the employee and our Investigator Im not persuaded by 
what Miss B says about these calls.
Miss B also points to making a subject access request and the delays therein. In regard to 
the Merchant I cannot comment here as this decision is about Creation. And in relation to 
Creation I cannot comment on a complaint about the subject access request as Creation 
hasnt had fair opportunity to look into this under this complaint investigation. If Miss B wants 
to complain separately about the subject access request she should approach Creation 
about this first.
In short, Ive considered everything that Miss B has said, and I appreciate how Miss B feels 
about the whole situation. However, I dont think what Creation has done with regard to the 
Section 75 has meant that Miss B has been treated unfairly. So this complaint doesnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Financial Services 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman