DRN-4516532
The complaint
Ms W complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly cancelled her 
motor insurance policy.
Advantage are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Advantage accepted it is accountable for the actions of 
the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
Ms W allowed a friend to drive her car when she came home from a hospital appointment 
under the belief that her friend was insured to drive the car by her own motor insurance 
policy.
The car was stopped by the police for a random spot check, and it was found the driver was 
not insured to drive Ms Ws car. The police allowed Ms W to organise temporary cover for 
her friend for the onward journey whilst at the roadside, and then allowed them on their way. 
Advantage cancelled Ms Ws policy when it was made aware she had allowed an uninsured 
driver to drive her car.
Ms W said as this was a genuine mistake she wanted the cancellation removing from her 
record. She said due to the cancellation her insurance premiums had increased.
As Ms W was not happy with Advantage she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said this was a 
careless error by Ms W and it had not caused Advantage any detriment or increased risk in 
the future. They said Ms W had been caused financial detriment and therefore Advantage 
should remove the cancellation from insurance databases, reimburse her the difference she 
had to pay for a new policy and pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As Advantage is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
When Ms W s car was stopped by the police it was for a random roadside stop, the car had 
not been involved in any incident relating to her car or that of a third-party. 
When the police checked the details of Ms Ws friend who was driving the car it was found 
she was not covered by her own motor insurance policy to drive another car as she had 
thought she was. Ms W immediately called Advantage to add her as a driver on her own 
policy. 
I saw that Advantage was called by the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) to check the driver of 
Ms Ws car was covered by the policy. Advantage confirmed that the driver had been added 
shortly after the police had undertaken the roadside stop. Advantage told the MIB 
representative that it would be issuing a seven-day cancellation notice for Ms Ws policy.  
In this case there was no incident, and no charges were brought against Ms W by the police. 
And there was no claim on her motor insurance policy.
I saw Advantage said in correspondence to Ms W that it appreciated she had made a 
genuine mistake. But it cancelled her policy as it was her responsibility to check documents 
to ensure any driver of her vehicle was fully covered.
I have no reason to doubt that assuming her friend had her own cover to drive her car was a 
genuine mistake by Ms W. I agree it is her responsibility to check she was fully covered but I 
think her accepting her friends confirmation and assurance that she was covered was 
understandable. Evidence from the friend who was driving confirms she thought she was 
covered under her own fully comprehensive policy and that she had reassured Ms W of this. 
And as soon as it was found cover was required through her own policy Ms W obtained it.
In this case Ms Ws genuine mistake did not result in any claim being made on her policy 
and therefore there was no loss to Advantage. I have not seen any evidence that Advantage 
discussed the cancellation with Ms W before issuing the seven-day cancellation.
Cancelling a policy can have a significant impact as policy cancellations are often taken into 
account when offering insurance and calculating premiums. Its likely the cost of future 
policies will be higher if an insurer or broker has cancelled a policy. 
Ms W has had to disclose shes had a motor insurance policy cancelled. This has meant a 
large increase in cost for cover. There isnt a time limit on how long she might have to 
declare the cancelled policy, as insurers will often ask if the consumer has ever had a policy 
cancelled. 
Although a mistake was made by Ms W when she allowed her friend to drive her car without 
cover being in place, I do not think the consequences of her policy being cancelled is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Therefore, I intend uphold Ms Ws complaint and intend to require Advantage to remove its 
cancellation of her policy from any internal and external records. This will mean Ms W will no 
longer need to declare a cancelled policy. However I cannot hold Advantage responsible for 
any distress caused due to Ms Ws own error. And I cannot fairly ask it to pay compensation 
for a mistake that was hers.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms W responded and said 
She understand why I considered Advantage should not pay compensation for distress 
and inconvenience that was caused by her own error, but she said she also experienced 
distress and inconvenience solely caused by Advantage when it cancelled her policy and 
she has been worried about managing higher premiums long term.
I had not made specific reference to reimbursement of the difference in the cost of her 
new policy and the cancelled policy  minus any premiums refunded.
Advantage did not respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms Ws comments
It was Ms Ws mistake that caused the cancellation of her policy. The ongoing 
consequences of cancellation due to her genuine mistake are what I think is unfair in the 
circumstances of this case. 
After Advantage has updated any cancellation by itself on Ms Ws record she will be able 
to update her current motor insurance policy provider. This may result in recalculation of 
her premium. But I do not require Advantage to make any reimbursement. 
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed; I maintain my provisional decision and I uphold Ms 
Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to remove its cancellation of Ms Ws policy 
from any internal and external records. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman