DRN-3224431
The complaint
Mrs W complains that due to delays caused by JLT Benefit Solutions Ltd (JLT) her pension 
transfer was not completed promptly. 
She says that because of the delays caused by JLT a new transfer value had to be 
requested and the transfer value of her benefits dropped. Mrs W says she will be worse off 
in retirement as a result of the delays caused by JLT.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs W decided to look into taking the benefits from her defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). Mrs W was 57 years old at the time and was suffering from a 
number of health conditions. From the information recorded at the time it appears Mrs W 
wanted to take the maximum tax-free lump sum available and secure a guaranteed income 
with her remaining pension pot.
The information that has been provided to this service shows that on:
16 September 2019 a transfer value was provided by Mrs Ws OPS administrator. The 
transfer value of £309,753.22 was guaranteed to 16 December 2019.
19 September 2019  Mrs W had an introductory call with JLT.
24 September 2019  a client information pack was sent to Mrs W to complete.
3 October 2019  JLT received the completed pack from Mrs W. This indicated that Mrs W 
suffered from a number of health concerns.
8 October 2019 - JLT requested a funding statement from Mrs Ws OPS administrator. 
9 October 2019  JLT received the requested information from the OPS administrator. JLT 
then requested a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS). 
18 October 2019 - JLT requested further information from the OPS administrator in order for 
the TVAS to be produced. 
25 October 2019  information from OPS administrator was received.
15 November 2019  TVAS was completed to age 65. However, it was then noted that Mrs 
W could take benefits, without any reductions, from age 60 from her OPS. JLT then 
requested a TVAS calculation based on retirement at age 60.
21 November 2019  revised TVAS report was completed.
26 November 2019  adviser spoke to Mrs W to discuss advice. Following this call Mrs W 
was asked to complete a further health questionnaire.
4 December 2019  health questionnaire was received from Mrs W.
8 December 2019 - JLT requested enhanced annuity quotes.
16 December 2019  transfer value of £309,753.22 expired.
17 December 2019  JLT requested a new transfer value from Mrs Ws OPS administrator. 
18 December 2019  enhanced annuity quotes were received by JLT (but these quotes were 
based on the expired transfer value).
23 December 2019  new transfer value was received from Mrs Ws OPS administrator of 
£289,668 guaranteed to 23 March 2020. JLT requested new enhanced annuity quotes 
based on this transfer value. 
30 December 2019 - Mrs W complained to JLT. Mrs W said she did not want to go ahead 
with the transfer until her complaint had been addressed.
17 February 2020  JLT obtained another transfer value from the OPS administrator of 
£297,748.88 valid until 17 May 2020. New enhanced annuity quotes were requested based 
on this transfer value.
6 March 2020  JLT received new annuity quotations based on the revised transfer value. 
11 March 2020  JLT spoke to Mrs W again to discuss its annuity advice 
17 March 2020 a new transfer value analysis was completed. 
14 April 2020  JLT sent its recommendation report to Mrs W.
16 April 2020 - a letter was sent to Mrs W asking her to complete the member discharge 
form and the annuity documentation. 
22 April 2020  Mrs W spoke to JLT to say she had completed the necessary forms and 
uploaded them to its portal, but it appeared the forms had not been uploaded. Paper copies 
of the forms were then issued to Mrs W who completed the forms and returned them the 
same day.
27 April 2020  the completed forms were forwarded to the annuity provider.
28 April 2020  the annuity provider notified JLT that it had reduced its annuity rates and the 
annual annuity payment Mrs W would receive was reduced from £9,869.88 to £9,678.96. It 
said in order for Mrs W to have received the higher annuity payment it would have needed to 
have received her transfer value by 24 March 2020.
1 May 2020  JLT issued a final response to Mrs Ws complaint. It offered to pay Mrs W 
£3,286.96 to resolve her complaint. It said the amount it had offered was equivalent to the 
annuity payments Mrs W would have received between December 2019 and May 2020. It also offered to pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and inconvenience this matter had caused 
her.
4 May 2020  JLT contacted Mrs W to discuss the reduction in the annuity rate. Mrs W 
confirmed that she still wanted to go ahead despite the reduction in the annuity she would 
receive. 
Mrs W was not satisfied with the offer JLT had made to resolve her complaint and referred 
the matter to this service. JLT contacted this service to say that in order to resolve the 
complaint it was willing to increase its offer to £12,004.34, the difference between the 
transfer value Mrs W was offered in September 2019 and the transfer value she received in 
May 2020 when the pension transfer went ahead.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint. Having done so she said she felt the 
increased offer JLT had made to resolve this matter was fair and reasonable. 
She said she was of the view that there were times in the process where JLT could have 
acted more quickly. But in order to uphold Mrs Ws complaint she needed to be satisfied that 
these delays had caused Mrs W to be financially disadvantaged. She said that having 
considered the timeline of events, although she accepted that there were times JLT could 
have progressed things more quickly, she didnt think there had been any unreasonable 
delays. 
She explained that as Mrs W was eligible for an enhanced annuity the process was more 
complex as the annuity providers required additional health information about Mrs Ws health 
conditions in order to provide quotations. This meant the quotation process took longer than 
it otherwise would have done.
She noted there had been a delay as a normal retirement age of 65 had been used for the 
scheme instead of age 60. As this was the case the TVAS had to be re-worked. But she said 
this had only caused a short delay. Likewise, she said the timeline showed that JLT had 
needed to gather additional information in October and November 2019 from the OPS 
administrator, but she said she didnt think this was unreasonable, or could have been 
avoided.
She said that, even if the adviser had requested the annuity quotes sooner than he did after 
all the necessary information had been gathered, the timeline indicated that he still wouldnt 
have received the quotes in time for Mrs W to accept the transfer advice and for the 
necessary forms to be completed and submitted to the annuity provider before 16 December 
2019, the day the transfer value expired.
As this was the case, she said she couldnt reasonably find that Mrs W would have been 
able to proceed with the pension transfer before the transfer value expired on 16 December 
2019.
She explained that after the transfer value expired in December 2019, JLT had to start the 
process again. This meant a new TVAS calculation had to be carried out, along with new 
annuity quotes based on the revised transfer value. 
She acknowledged that Mrs W had been frustrated by the delays. But she noted the transfer 
wasnt progressed in early 2020 as Mrs W had told JLT that she wanted it to consider her 
complaint before going ahead with the transfer. The investigator said she couldnt 
reasonably hold JLT responsible for this as it was in line with Mrs Ws wishes at that time. After a new transfer value was obtained in mid-February 2020, updated annuity quotations 
were requested, and a second conversation was held with Mrs W about the advice to 
transfer on 11 March 2020. The investigator said she felt the suitability report could have 
been issued sooner than it was after this conversation. But as the annuity provider had said 
that Mrs W would only have been eligible for the higher annuity rate if the transfer had been 
completed by 24 March 2020 she said she didnt think that even if the suitability report had 
been issued sooner there was sufficient time for the transfer to have completed by 24 March 
2020.
In view of this, she said she couldnt reasonably say that even if JLT had issued its suitability 
report before mid-April 2020 she didnt think the transfer would have completed in time for 
Mrs W to receive the higher annuity rate.
In summary she said that although there had been times when JLT could have acted more 
quickly she didnt think Mrs W had been financially disadvantaged as a result. She noted JLT 
had said it was still willing to offer the increased compensation amount of £12,004.34. She 
said she felt this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W did not accept our investigators view. In summary she said that:
- the adviser had assured her in September 2019 that there was more than enough 
time for the pension transfer to be completed before the transfer value expired on 16 
December 2019.
-all health information about me was discussed, in call on the 18th September and 
again on the 19th. At this stage they were aware of enhancements I may be entitled 
to and did mention this to me.
- she had returned the fact find information on 25 September so JLT should have 
received it by 26 September 2019, a week before JLT said it had received the 
information.
- JLT then waited until 18 October 2019 to ask Mrs W to review and sign the pack.
- She phoned the adviser on 23 October 2019 and was told by his assistant that the 
adviser needed 2 weeks to dot the is and cross the ts and was therefore expecting 
contact back by the 6th November, however no contact was received.
- By the 20th November I was beginning to become concerned at the delay and 
attempted to call for an update, there was no response and no call back to me.
- She did not hear from her adviser between 18 October 2019 and 26 November 2019.
- On 26 November Mrs W was asked for more information about her health conditions. 
Mrs W says she ...found this strange as all my medical information and social 
information had already been provided on ample occasions.
Mrs W said she felt that as she had provided all the information requested by JLT by return 
of post she was concerned that each time it said it had received the information a week after 
she had returned it. She said she felt, in total, that JLT had not progressed her pension 
transfer in nine out of the twelve weeks available to it before the original transfer value 
expired on 16 December 2019.
Mrs W also said she was concerned that JLT did not tell her of a pivotal error concerning 
my pension (when it came to light in mid-November 2019 that Mrs W could take the benefits 
from her OPS without any reduction from age 60). She said she felt it should have prioritised 
her transfer once it was aware that it had caused a delay.
And Mrs W said she didnt feel the redress JLT had offered of £12,004.34, was sufficient. 
She said she felt she would be about £1,000 worse off each year for the rest of her life as a 
result of the delays JLT had caused in advising on her pension transfer and setting up her 
annuity. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the offer JLT has made is fair and reasonable and I dont think it 
needs to do any more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
I have very carefully considered the steps JLT took when arranging for Mrs W to transfer her 
OPS benefits to see if there were any unnecessary delays. 
I appreciate that Mrs W feels the process should have been straightforward and that it 
should have been possible for JLT to have completed the transfer much more quickly than it 
did. I am sympathetic to Mrs Ws position and I can understand why she feels JLT delayed 
the process, but I dont think it did cause unnecessary delays.
When advising a consumer on transferring benefits from a defined benefits OPS there are a 
number of regulatory requirements a business must meet. These have been put in place to 
give additional protection to consumers and to reduce the risk that a consumer might be 
persuaded to transfer their, often very valuable, benefits out of their occupational pension 
scheme without fully understanding the risks involved. This is particularly important as once 
benefits are transferred out of an OPS it is usually not possible to transfer back in.
In Mrs Ws case it appears that due to her ill health it was in her interests to consider 
transferring her benefits from her OPS and using her transfer value to purchase an 
enhanced annuity. The analysis JLT carried out compared the benefits she would receive if 
she remained in her OPS with the benefits she could receive if she took the transfer value 
offered by her OPS and used it to buy an annuity that took into account her health 
conditions. JLT provided information to Mrs W to show how much tax-free cash and annuity 
income she would receive if she remained in her OPS scheme and how much she would 
receive if she used the transfer value to buy an enhanced annuity.
In order to carry out this analysis JLT needed information from Mrs Ws OPS about the 
benefits she was entitled to and it needed to gather detailed information about Mrs Ws 
health to ensure that this could be taken into account by annuity providers. 
From Mrs Ws perspective I can see that she feels it should have been a straightforward 
process of simply seeing what annuity her transfer value could buy. But as I have set out, 
JLT needed to be satisfied that it would be in Mrs Ws best interests to give up the valuable 
benefits she was entitled to from her OPS. To do this, it needed to gather detailed 
information about both Mrs Ws personal and financial situation and her OPS.
It is very unfortunate that during the period JLT was gathering all the information it needed 
and analysing the information that Mrs Ws transfer value expired. But I havent seen 
anything that shows JLT told Mrs W that it would definitely be able to arrange her pension 
transfer before the transfer value expired.
I do understand that there were large periods of time when JLT was not in contact with her 
and it might have appeared that it was not progressing her transfer. Having very carefully 
considered the timeline and all the information available I am satisfied that JLT did progress 
Mrs Ws pension transfer without causing undue delays. And where it could have acted more 
promptly, I cant reasonably find that even if it had acted more quickly the transfer could 
definitely have completed by 16 December 2019.I note that in her response to our investigators view Mrs W has said JLT failed to tell her 
about a pivotal error concerning my pension. I understand that Mrs W is referring to when it 
came to light in mid-November 2019 that she could take the benefits from her OPS without 
any reduction from age 60. I accept that it is frustrating that JLT didnt realise sooner that 
she would be able to take benefits from her OPS from age 60, without any reduction being 
applied. But I am mindful that this error was quickly rectified and the TVAS based on taking 
benefits from her OPS at age 60 was issued four working days after the TVAS based on 
taking benefits at age 65.
As this is the case, I dont think this was a pivotal error, or that this delay of four working 
days led to Mrs Ws pension transfer not completing before her transfer value expired on 16 
December 2019.
In her response to this service Mrs W has explained that she told JLT in September 2019 
about her health conditions, so she found it strange that the adviser requested more 
information in late November 2019. I can see why Mrs W felt JLT should have had all the 
information it needed, but it is not uncommon for additional health information to be 
requested by annuity providers before they are able to provide a quotation for an enhanced 
annuity. If JLT had cut corners and not requested this information it is possible that Mrs W 
would not have been offered the highest annuity income she was eligible for. So, although I 
can see why Mrs W felt she had already told JLT about her health conditions I dont think it 
acted unreasonably by requesting more information.
I note that Mrs W has said she doesnt feel the redress JLT has offered of £12,004.34, is 
sufficient. Mrs W says she will be about £1,000 worse off each year for the rest of her life as 
a result of the delay in advising on her pension transfer and setting up her annuity. 
I have very carefully considered the comments Mrs W has made on the redress JLT has 
offered. Where a business makes an error or does something wrong, this service would 
usually look to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in, but for the 
error. 
In this case, as I have set out above, I cant safely find that there was sufficient time for JLT 
to advise Mrs W on transferring her OPS benefits and arrange an enhanced annuity that met 
Mrs Ws needs before the transfer value expired on 16 December 2019. As this is the case, I 
cant require JLT to pay Mrs W a lump sum equivalent to thirty times the shortfall in her 
annual annuity payment  which is the amount Mrs W has suggested she should receive.
I also note Mrs W has said JLT should also pay her the £3,286.96 in redress it originally 
offered, as well as the £12,004.34. As Mrs W is aware the £3,286.96 JLT originally offered 
was to compensate her for the annuity payments she would have received if her annuity had 
been set up in December 2019, rather than May 2020. But as our investigator noted the 
pension transfer was put on hold at Mrs Ws request in early 2020, when she complained 
about the delay in arranging her pension transfer. As this is the case, I cant reasonably say 
JLT should compensate Mrs W for this delay between December 2019 and May 2020 when 
the annuity was set up.
Having very carefully considered this matter I think the offer JLT has made to pay Mrs W 
£12,004.34 is more than this service would usually recommend in complaints such as this 
where there is nothing to show that the business gave any guarantee that the transfer could 
be completed by a certain time. As this is the case, I simply leave it to Mrs W to decide if she 
now wishes to accept JLTs offer.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out, I think the offer JLT has made to pay 
Mrs W £12,004.34 is more than this service would normally award where there is nothing to 
show the business gave any guarantee that the transfer would be completed by a certain 
date. 
I therefore simply leave it to Mrs W to decide if she would now like to accept JLT Benefit 
Solutions Ltds offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman