DRN-3374180
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr H complained to HSBC about the charges applied to his account when it ought to have 
known he was suffering from financial difficulties. HSBC agreed that it hadnt treated Mr H 
fairly and refunded £170 in charges and compensated him a further £200 for lack of attention 
to his circumstances. 
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this as over the years he says he has been charged hundreds 
when HSBC allowed him to go into unarranged overdraft yet HSBC wouldnt agree a formal 
overdraft. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC should have stopped 
charging overdraft fees from 2 September 2016 as by this point it was clear Mr H was in 
financial difficulty as he was going into unarranged overdraft on a monthly basis and some 
months hadnt seen a credit balance. 
HSBC disagreed with our adjudicators view  it says there wasnt enough to alert it of 
financial difficulty before Mr H got in contact in touch. So it has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Why I cant look at charges applied before June 2015
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr H raised his complaint in June 2021. Six years before he raised his complaint is June 
2015. And as the charges for use of the unarranged overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr H 
at the time they were being applied, I think he ought to have known enough to decide 
whether they were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from 
when Mr H ought to be reasonably aware he had reason to complain provides him with a 
longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from June 
2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Hs account 
from 2 September 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr H was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, it was clear that Mr H was having difficulty managing his money. Mr Hs 
statements show that he was going into unarranged overdraft on a monthly basis and 
needed to do this to make ends meet as he was reliant on it to meet essential payments. In 
these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mr H was at a significant risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with forbearance rather 
than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to his overdraft. 
I accept that Mr H did manage to bring his account into credit at times when his benefits 
were received. But he didnt maintain a credit balance and I can see that Mr H was using his 
overdraft to pay monthly household bills and within weeks would be back in unarranged 
overdraft.  
So I think that Mr Hs regular use of an unarranged overdraft should have prompted HSBC to 
have realised that Mr H wasnt using his account as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Hs unarranged overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his unarranged overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
HSBC didnt treat Mr H fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 2 September 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit file, HSBC 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft from 2 September 2016. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
instruct it to put this right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman