DRN-4101965
The complaint
Miss S complains about Revolut Ltd.
She says that Revolut didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a
scam and would like Revolut to pay her back the money she has lost.
What happened
Miss S came across an advert for making investment in cryptocurrency on Facebook.
She made contact with the company and was persuaded to purchase crypto. In total, she
made three payments to W (a seller of crypto) of €4,432.05, £4,327.69, and £1,145.27.
Once Miss S realised she had been the victim of a scam, she complained to Revolut, but it
didnt uphold her complaint. Miss S then brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator consider the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. I have 
previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint where I explained that I intended 
to partially uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S accepted my provisional decision, but Revolut did not. 
Revolut has provided further commentary on receipt of my provisional decision, which I will 
comment on, but it hasnt persuaded me to change my opinion on the complaint.
So, I will now issue my final decision, which contains my provisional decision with extra 
commentary on the points Revolut raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Miss S the victim of a scam?
I dont think it is in doubt here that Miss S was the victim of a scam  she responded to an 
advert she saw online and was persuaded to invest in crypto  however when she came to 
realising her supposed profit the scammer asked for more money in order to access this. 
This is not the action of a genuine investment provider.
Did Miss S authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss S isnt liable for payments
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Miss S made the payments to purchase crypto from W with her debit card herself, so I think
that its clear that she authorised them. I understand Miss S had been tricked into instructing
Revolut to make the payments  but while Miss S never intended the payments to go to the
scammers, this doesnt change the fact she authorised them and is therefore presumed
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Miss Ss payments
After Miss S made her payments, I wouldnt expect Revolut to do anything further until it was
notified of the scam.
All of Miss Ss payments were made by debit card - so the only recourse for potential
recovery would be by via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which
disputes are resolved between card issuers (here, Revolut) and the merchant (here, W). But
its very unlikely that a chargeback would ever have seen successful.
This is because W is a legitimate company and provided the services that Miss S requested
 the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of Miss Ss
choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a separate
matter  so a successful chargeback would likely not have not possible  and I dont think
that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Revolut reasonably ought to have prevented
some or all of the payments Miss S made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss
before it happened.
Miss S authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Revolut should have taken proactive steps
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Miss S and the payments in question here
The first payment Miss S made to W for €4,432.05. Miss S thinks that Revolut should have
intervened from this payment. Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded to agreehere.
I can see by looking at Miss Ss statement that her account with Revolut was not used that
regularly  and appears to have been used for converting and sending payments in Euro,
rather than day to day transactions, which may have allowed Revolut to build up a picture of
Miss Ss regular account activity in order to identify suspicious patterns. While the payment
was much higher than normal for this account  I cant say that it was so unusual that
Revolut should have intervened here - not every payment to a company selling crypto is a
scam and as Ive said above, there is a balance to be struck.
However, Miss S then made another payment, only a few days later for £4,327.69. This
clearly indicates a marked change in the way that Miss S was operating her account. I think
that this payment shouldve triggered a response from Revolut in order to meet its
obligations Ive set out above. With this in mind, Revolut should reasonably have contacted
Miss S to establish whether the transaction posed any possibility of placing Miss S in
financial harm before processing it. But it did not do so.
Had Revolut contacted Miss S, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Miss S about the
payment  including what the payment was for, and the surrounding context  and to
proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss S had been coached, or told to lie about the payments
she was making  so I think that had Revolut acted as I wouldve expected, it would quickly
have uncovered that Miss S had made contact through Facebook with a company offering
investment in crypto  and had been persuaded to download AnyDesk onto her computer. I
think she would also have told them that the scammer used AnyDesk to move the crypto she
had purchased onto another wallet.
Revolut has said that the payment reference used by Miss S when transferring the money 
from her bank H to Revolut was holiday which shows that Miss S took steps to conceal the 
true nature of the payments, and had likely been coached to provide an answer to Revolut 
had it intervened. But it is my understanding that when a new payee is set up, a payment 
reference is chosen for the first transaction, and continues to be the same unless a customer 
chooses to amend this. And as Miss S was using her Revolut account for converting and 
making payments in Euro, it is not unreasonable to think that this is the reference she chose 
when first making her payments and simply never opted to change this once the link had 
been set up.  
By January 2019, Revolut should already have had a good understanding about how scams
like the one Miss S fell victim to work  including that a consumer is often persuaded to
move money from one crypto-wallet in their own name to the scammer. Had Revolut given 
Miss S a meaningful warning that what she had told it bore all the hallmarks of a 
sophisticated scam  I think that she wouldve taken this warning seriously and not taken the 
risk of continuing with the payment.
I understand that Revolut says that Miss Ss account was not a current account  and that it 
is not a bank but an Electronic Money Institute (EMI). It says that this type of account is 
opened and used to facilitate crypto payments  and that the payments to W are not out of 
character with the typical way in which an EMI account is used. It also says that once a 
payment had been made to W that it became an established merchant, which made further 
transactions less unusual, and that the payments were spaced out.
But an EMI account isnt only used for the purchase of crypto  and Miss S had been using 
the account for converting and sending payments in Euro  so the payments to purchase 
crypto were unusual for Miss S (although as Ive said above, I dont think that there was enough for Revolut to intervene from the first payment)  and the second payment was only 
a few days later. 
Revolut also says that the payments were made to a crypto account in Miss Ss own name, 
and so the scam Miss S fell victim to is out of the scope of Revolut and should be directed to 
the seller of the crypto. But as Ive explained above, Revolut missed an opportunity to 
uncover the scam here, and as it is aware, the seller of the crypto does not have the same 
obligations as it has  and is not regulated in the same way.
Finally, Revolut also says that Miss Ss bank H (which was used to fund Miss Ss Revolut 
account) should be partially liable here as it would have had a better understanding of her 
spending and the transactions would have been more suspicious when being transferred to 
Revolut. But I disagree. 
This Service isnt considering a complaint about H  but this isnt required for me to consider 
the complaint in hand here. Revolut was an established payee of Miss S  and she had 
funded her Revolut account via H for a long time prior to when the scam began. So only 
Revolut could have known about the change in Miss Ss spend from her account with it  
and H wasnt aware of any activity taking place on her account with Revolut. 
So, nothing Revolut has said here changes my opinion, and I still think that Revolut could 
have stopped the payments from payment two had it intervened as it ought to have done. 
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd should pay Miss S £5,472.96
It should also pay Miss S 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount the date of payment
to settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Revolut Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman