DRN-3373874
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd has administered lending 
arrangements. S is represented by a director, Mr P. For ease of reading, any reference to 
submissions or actions taken by Mr P refer to those taken on behalf of S.
What happened
Funding Circle provides a peer-to-peer lending platform and administers loans on behalf of 
both corporate and individual investors, who are the lenders in these arrangements. S held 
two loans administered by Funding Circle  one taken out in May 2017 (which Ill call Loan 
A) and a second loan taken in October that year (Loan B).
Mr P says that over the course of the loans S had various minor complaints with Funding 
Circle, but that what prompted this complaint was the difficult financial position that S found 
itself in during early 2020, during the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to the impact on Ss business, 
Mr P made enquiries about reworking the loans or other forbearance that Funding Circle was 
able to offer. He says his broker was told that Funding Circle wouldnt consolidate the 
existing loans and that Funding Circle told him directly that it was unwilling to offer a 
payment holiday or any other assistance.
Mr P didnt want the accounts to default so he raised funds elsewhere. He attempted to pay 
off the loan balances, but had difficulty doing so. Mr P disputed the settlement figures 
Funding Circle provided, which appeared not to include any interest rebate for early 
repayment. Further, when Mr P paid the amount he believed was owed, Funding Circle first 
returned the money, and later  after it was resent  used the funds to pay off Loan B rather 
than Loan A. This left S with the higher £570 monthly payment of Loan A rather than the 
£279 that was payable under Loan B. Funding Circle used the balance of the overpayment 
towards the monthly payments due under Loan A.
In response to Mr Ps concerns, Funding Circle said that during the pandemic it temporarily 
stopped arranging new commercial lending. It offered S a short-term payment plan for three 
months without adverse impact on Ss credit file, although by that point Mr P had already 
made alternative arrangements. Funding Circle said that the settlement figures it provided to 
S included some accrued interest, which might account for the difference in Mr Ps 
calculations. It also said that it had returned Mr Ps lump sum payments as they were 
insufficient to clear the balances of both loans.
Mr P considers Funding Circle to have engaged in sharp practice, and that its actions 
caused unnecessary difficulty to S in operating its business. Although Mr Ps 
correspondence references his other minor complaints, it is this issue that forms the core of 
his current dissatisfaction with Funding Circle and that is the subject of this decision.
Our investigator noted that the way in which Loan B was set up, with both the borrower and 
the lender being corporate bodies, took it outside the scope of our service. However, he was 
satisfied that this wasnt the case with Loan A, on which the lender comprised individual 
rather than corporate investors.
The investigator could find no record relating to Funding Circles conversation with Mr Ps 
broker, but noted Funding Circle had given the correct information to Mr P about loan 
consolidation. He said Funding Circle had told us that it was awaiting government guidance 
about Covid-19 forbearance measures, though this situation was in any event overtaken by 
Mr P being able to make alternative borrowing arrangements via friends and family.
In relation to the discrepancy between the settlement figures Funding Circle gave Mr P and 
those Mr P calculated for himself, the investigator concluded that Funding Circle had 
calculated the sums due in line with the respective loan agreements. But he thought Funding 
Circle should have done more to establish which loan was to be settled. Although Mr P had 
used the reference for Loan B when he resent his lump sum payment following its earlier 
return, the investigator felt Mr Ps earlier correspondence made clear that he wanted to settle 
both loans, and why he was looking to do so. In light of this, the investigator thought Funding 
Circle should have obtained confirmation from Mr P rather than just applying his payment to 
Loan B.
To settle matters, the investigator recommended that Funding Circle rework the loan 
settlement arrangements to reflect Mr Ps intention to settle Loan A in May 2020, including 
allowing Mr P to pay off any resultant shortfall on Loan B based on the settlement figure at 
that time. The investigator said that if that resulted in S having overpaid Loan B (due to 
payments subsequently received), Funding Circle should return these with interest. It should 
also remove any adverse payment information that it might have recorded.
Funding Circle didnt accept the investigators recommendation. It provided further details of 
its correspondence with Mr P, which it considers support its position that it didnt act 
incorrectly in applying the payments as it did. Funding Circle sought to make the following 
points:
Its business model meant it was unable to implement the investigators 
recommendations. It had paid the Loan B investors when that loan was settled, and 
couldnt now recoup that money to use it towards Loan A. In addition to the technical 
difficulties that would cause, it would be unfair on the investors in both loans
It disagreed with the investigators statement that it would have been prudent for it to 
check which loan Mr P had intended to settle when he paid the lump sum a second 
time. It had used the lump sum payment to settle Loan B because that was the 
reference Mr P had used in sending the payment. It could not reach out to every 
customer making a payment to settle their loan to check whether they used the 
correct reference. Nor did it agree that it was certain S would have asked for the 
larger loan to be settled had it done so
Funding Circle acknowledged the financial strain S was under. It said if S couldnt maintain 
the loan payments it would need to record the account as being in default, but would then be 
able to restructure a more affordable repayment plan. It added that it was willing to pay £250 
compensation in recognition of delays in dealing with S.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Funding Circle had dealt with matters fairly, so the 
dispute has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, the activity in which Funding Circle was engaged in respect of 
Loan B doesnt meet the definition of an Article 36H credit-related regulated activity, due to the corporate nature of both the borrower and lender in that situation. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied that this doesnt prevent me from considering the way in which Funding Circle 
administered the settlement payment. Thats because doing so requires I take into account 
the position on Loan A, where the lender was made up of individual investors rather than a 
body corporate.
Calculation of the loan settlement figures
Both Loan A and Loan B operated on a fairly standard amortisation schedule with a fixed 
monthly payment. In broad terms, this means that in the earlier stages of the loan, a greater 
proportion of the monthly payment comprises interest than in the later stages, as interest is 
calculated on the prevailing balance. As the loan progresses, the proportion of the payment 
that goes towards capital repayment increases as the interest proportion reduces.
The loan agreements both provide for early settlement; that is, where the borrower wants to 
repay the balance before the end of the agreed loan term. They say that in this event, 
depending on the repayment date the amount required to settle may include additional 
interest of up to one month.
When Mr P sought to settle Ss loans in 2020, Loan A had been running for nearly three 
years of a five-year term. On an unamortised schedule, that would mean capital payments of 
£5,500 each year, giving a settlement figure in the region of £10,500-£11,000 after three 
years. But on an amortised schedule, the settlement figure would be around £12,500. That 
sum is consistent with the amount Funding Circle told Mr P on 20 May 2020.
Similarly, Funding Circles settlement figure of £6,620 looks to me to be broadly in line with 
the amortisation schedule for a five-year loan being settled around the halfway point, as was 
the case with Loan B. While I appreciate Mr P and his accountant reached markedly different 
figures using their own calculations, Im satisfied Funding Circle gave the correct information 
when asked to provide settlement figures for Ss loans.
Application of the settlement payments
Bearing this in mind, its clear that the two payments Mr P sent Funding Circle on 13 May 
2020 to settle the loans - £10,700 and £4,680  were insufficient to achieve this. The loan 
agreements dont appear to make provision for part-payment of capital lump sums. So I can 
understand why Funding Circle returned Mr Ps payments  the monies sent werent the 
sums needed for settlement, and there was clearly disagreement between the parties over 
the amounts required to settle.
Whats less clear is why Funding Circle took a different approach when Mr P resubmitted his 
payments on 29 May. The mere fact that Mr P gave the reference for Loan B on both 
payments is in my view insufficient for Funding Circle to have taken the approach it did. If 
anything, this should have indicated to Funding Circle that the information was incorrect; it 
suggested Mr P wanted to pay some £14,500 to settle a loan hed recently been told 
required only £6,620 to settle. This, coupled with the fact Mr P structured the two payments 
on 29 May in the way he did, and the ongoing email exchanges between the parties 
regarding the dispute over the correct settlement figures doesnt suggest that it was 
appropriate for Funding Circle to apply the payments in the way it did. Rather, it should have 
sought to clarify Mr Ps intentions and if necessary, return the money.
Noting Funding Circles response to the investigator on this point, I should be clear that I 
dont expect a business to undertake such steps on every payment it receives. Nor do I 
believe that is what the investigator suggested. But where  as here  there is clear and 
ongoing evidence of a dispute and an obvious error, I take the view that it would be remiss for it not to do so.
Had Funding Circle taken these steps, it seems likely that Mr P would have remained in 
dispute over the settlement figures  at least, until such time as Funding Circle gave him a 
suitable explanation for the way in which it calculated the amounts in question. It appears to 
have been able to do so fairly quickly. Funding Circles email of 5 June provides this 
explanation. Mr P would then have been able to consider which of the two loans he wanted 
to settle.
Given his stated purpose in doing so was to improve Ss cashflow, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that Mr P would have used the money to settle Loan A, on which the monthly 
payment was more than double that of Loan B. Mr P himself made this clear in his email 
(also 5 June 2020), as well as in his subsequent correspondence. Taking all of this into 
account, I respectfully disagree with Funding Circles comment that it is by no means certain 
S would have wanted to settle the larger loan. That is precisely what the available evidence 
says S would have done.
Having carefully considered matters, Im not persuaded Funding Circle treated S fairly in the 
way it dealt with the settlement payments. As a result, S had greater cashflow problems than 
it might otherwise have experienced if Funding Circle had dealt with things more 
appropriately. So Ive gone on to consider how Funding Circle should put that right.
Putting things right
I understand the difficulty Funding Circle has cited in simply reversing what happened, 
reinstating Loans A and B and then applying the payments in the way S wanted. The way in 
which Funding Circle operates means that this wouldnt be a practical solution if it involved 
the original investors.
However, I dont believe its necessary to do that in order to achieve the same result. The 
error was Funding Circles, rather than that of its investors. Funding Circle doesnt need to 
recreate the original loan arrangements in order to put right any loss S has suffered as a 
result. It can instead calculate what the difference in cost would have been had the loan 
payments been applied as Im satisfied S would have instructed if Funding Circle had given it 
the opportunity. That would produce a sufficiently similar end result, without the inherent 
difficulty Funding Circle has cited.
In terms of reworking, then, Funding Circle should:
1. run a calculation of payments received on Loan A since 1 June 2020 based on S 
having paid the quoted settlement figure of £12,589.07 by 11 June 2020
2. run a calculation of Loan B as if that loan hadnt been settled on 1 June 2020 and 
had instead continued to operate in line with the original agreement
3. apply the sum in 1. (being the amount S has overpaid on Loan A) to the calculation in 
2., backdated to the date each payment was received
4. If, as I anticipate, these calculations show that S has overpaid Loan B, then any such 
overpayments should immediately be repaid to S, together with interest on each 
amount again backdated to the date each payment was received. This interest 
should be calculated at an annual rate of 8% simple
5. Any late or adverse payment information that may have been recorded by Funding 
Circle in relation to either loan should be removed
I have considered the possibility that S might have paid off both loans in 2020 if Funding 
Circle had taken suitable steps at the time to deal with the settlement payments. S has indicated it was able to secure borrowing, and its possible S might have been able to use 
this to cover the shortfall (in the region of £4,400). However, there is insufficient evidence to 
enable me to say that its more likely than not that it would have done so.
In its response to the investigator, Funding Circle has noted that there were occasions on 
which its handling of matters was delayed. Although this wasnt something the investigator 
picked up on, I must acknowledge the fact that Funding Circle has itself done so. Where a 
business has caused unnecessary material delay or inconvenience to a customer, I would 
expect it to offer an apology in the form of compensation, and Im pleased to see that 
Funding Circle has proposed doing so here. I think the amount it has proposed is fair in the 
circumstances.
other matters
In closing, I note that Mr P has mentioned that he is also unhappy about agents fees and 
commission he believes were added to the overall cost of the loans without disclosure. As 
the investigator explained, that was not an aspect raised with Funding Circle previously, and 
as such its not for me to reach a finding on that matter in the context of this complaint. While 
he is of course at liberty to raise this as a separate matter with Funding Circle, noting that 
Mr P has copies of the loan documents that I have also seen, he might want to take further 
independent advice before doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, 
I require Funding Circle Ltd within 28 days of receiving Mr Ps acceptance of this decision to 
take the following steps:
1. run a calculation of payments received on Loan A since 1 June 2020 based on S 
having paid the quoted settlement figure of £12,589.07 by 11 June 2020
2. run a calculation of Loan B as if that loan hadnt been settled on 1 June 2020 and 
had instead continued to operate in line with the original agreement
3. apply the sum in 1. (being the amount S has overpaid on Loan A) to the calculation in 
2., backdated to the date each payment was received
4. If, as I anticipate, these calculations show that S has overpaid Loan B, then any such 
overpayments should immediately be repaid to S, together with interest on each 
amount again backdated to the date each payment was received. This interest 
should be calculated at an annual rate of 8% simple
5. Any late or adverse payment information that may have been recorded by Funding 
Circle in relation to either loan should be removed
6. pay S £250 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience experienced due to 
delays it has acknowledged in its handling of matters
If Funding Circle deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should confirm to S 
that it has done so and provide it with any relevant tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman