DRN-3663457
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages (Topaz) 
had addressed arrears on his buy to let (BTL) mortgage.
What happened
Mr K said he got into arrears with the BTL mortgage he pays to Topaz on a rented out 
property. He said that happened because of problems with a former tenant. He explained to 
Topaz that the property now had new tenants, and he was taking legal action to recover the 
losses the former tenant had caused. He was optimistic about the prospects of success.
Mr K said he didnt get any final demand letter from Topaz, so he didnt know that it was 
planning to appoint Law of Property Act (LPA) receivers. He said that action hadnt been 
necessary, he wanted to come to an arrangement to repay the arrears. He told Topaz that a 
payment of £500 had been made on his behalf, but it had bounced back. 
Mr K said Topaz agreed £1,900 rent from his tenant would all be used to clear the last of the 
arrears on the mortgage, but the money was paid to the receivers, and they kept £228 of it.
Mr K said Topazs staff were rude and unhelpful. He wanted to know why it hadnt issued a 
third party authority form earlier. He said he was treated disrespectfully, and Topaz had 
dismissed his complaints without a proper investigation.
Mr K wanted Topaz to reimburse the £228 he was charged by the receiver, to pay him 
compensation for the poor service it had provided, and to give him a written apology.
Topaz didnt think it had done anything wrong. It has shown us a letter it wrote to Mr K on 19 
January 2022, warning him it would take steps to enforce its security if he didnt clear the 
arrears. It then wrote to him again on 22 February to say it was planning to appoint LPA 
Receivers. Topaz thought it was appropriate to appoint a receiver in these circumstances. 
Topaz said it wrote to Mr K at the address it held for him. He hadnt told it there were 
problems with the mail to his address, and if he knew about these, he couldve given Topaz 
alternative contact details. Topaz said it doesnt send letters like these by email, because 
that isnt secure. 
Topaz said a payment made on Mr Ks behalf on 22 February didnt have his mortgage 
account number as a reference. Topaz receives a very large number of payments, and 
without a reference number, it cannot allocate the payment so it will return it to the sender. 
Topaz sought to explain why Mr K hadnt received a couple of calls hed asked for. And it 
said it doesnt assign each persons mortgage to just one case handler, but it was confident 
its staff could help when he called. 
Topaz said it hadnt sent out a third party authority form earlier, because it hadnt been 
aware that this would assist Mr K. It sent this as soon as it realised this might help.
Topaz said Mr K is responsible for any costs incurred by LPA receivers, so it wouldnt pay 
back the £228 which was withheld from his rent. But then on 19 May it wrote to say it would 
refund this after all. A payment of this amount was credited to his mortgage on 1 June 2022, 
and internal notes from 18 May confirm this is a refund of the charge applied by the receiver. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Topaz was entitled to 
appoint an LPA receiver, and the receivers fees were deducted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks mortgage. She didnt think it was reasonable to expect Topaz to be 
aware of the problems with Mr Ks post, if he hadnt told it. And she said it was reasonable 
for Topaz to want to use a secure method of communication, so it wouldnt send letters like 
this by email. Our investigator also accepted Topazs explanation for why the payment made 
on behalf of Mr K on 22 February was returned to the sender. 
Our investigator said shed reviewed the contact notes, and could understand this was a 
stressful time for Mr K. She agreed Topaz could have done more to tell Mr K that any 
payment from the LPA receiver would be subject to fees, but she said the charge applied to 
the rent payment was set out in Topazs tariff of charges. So she didnt think Topaz had to 
pay this back. She noted that this money didnt reach Mr Ks mortgage until 21 April. 
Our investigator said that Topaz hadnt previously issued a third party authority form 
because that isnt something it would proactively send, without any indication of customer 
difficulties in managing an account. 
Our investigator said Topaz had apologised for the service Mr K received and delays he 
experienced. And it had offered to credit his mortgage with £228 to cover the rent deduction. 
Our investigator didnt think Topaz had to do any more. 
Mr K said he didnt agree, although he didnt explain why. He asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
When this case came to me, I noted that Mr K had asked to see evidence our service had 
considered to date. Our service has arranged for documentation to be sent to Mr K, and has 
received no further representations. I think its now appropriate to proceed with my decision 
in this case.
Mr K said a payment was made to Topaz on his behalf on 22 February. He wanted to know 
why this bounced back to the sender. I think Topaz has explained there was no reference 
number to allow it to allocate the payment to the right mortgage account, and thats why it 
sent this money back. I think that was a reasonable step for Topaz to take. And I think this 
payment, even if it had been allocated to Mr Ks account, would have been unlikely to be 
sufficient to stop the action that followed. Topaz had already issued a final demand for 
payment of arrears of over £4,000.
Mr K said it was premature for Topaz to appoint LPA receivers. Hes told us his problems 
with the mortgage were the result of an extremely difficult tenant, who not only didnt pay 
rent, but damaged his property, and left owing very considerably more than the arrears. So I 
understand that he would have been hoping to recover this money, to pay off Topaz. But it 
does seem that any enforcement against the tenants guarantor would have been at some point in the future, and considerable arrears had built up. Topaz had sent a final demand, 
and then, when arrears continued to rise, a letter warning it intended to appoint receivers. It 
hadnt received any reply, and wouldnt have known if these letters werent received. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Topaz to appoint LPA receivers. 
Mr K said Topaz oughtnt to have written to him when his area was having problems with 
post. But Topaz has explained that a letter is more secure than an email. And I dont think 
Topaz is responsible for checking on postal difficulties before it writes to Mr K.
I know Mr K was keen to get his property back as soon as possible. He said he needed to be 
able to access his property, because he wanted to get a builder to fully and properly assess 
the cost of repairs as part of his case against his former tenant. Topaz said it would normally 
wait until a payment of rent, made to the receivers, had been received and credited to his 
mortgage account, but in this instance it de-instructed receivers once they had confirmed the 
payment was on its way. I think that was a reasonable approach for Topaz to take here. 
I know Mr K anticipated that the whole of the rent payment made by his tenant would reach 
his mortgage account, but £228 was deducted by the receivers. I understand Topaz didnt 
warn him about this  it doesnt appear to have realised at the time that this would be the 
case. But Topaz didnt make that deduction, it was made by the receivers, and it was in line 
with the terms of Mr Ks mortgage. I dont think Topaz actually had to pay Mr K back this 
£228. So I will bear that in mind when I consider the outcome of this case. 
Mr K said the service he received from Topaz was very poor, he said it was dismissive and 
hadnt properly investigated his complaint. I understand this was a difficult and stressful time 
for Mr K, but I think Topaz did do a reasonable job overall of liaising between Mr K and the 
LPA receiver to agree the return of his property in good time. It issued a third party mandate 
to him as soon as it realised this would be helpful  I wouldnt have expected this to be sent 
to Mr K otherwise. And I dont think Topaz has failed to properly consider Mr Ks complaint. 
Insofar as Topaz wasnt always able to act as quickly or as efficiently as Mr K would have 
liked, I think the payment it has made, of £228 to refund receivers charges, does provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to that part of Mr Ks complaint.
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think Topaz has to do more here than its 
already done. And that means this complaint wont be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman