DRN-1937478
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr B took out on the advice 
of Key Retirement Solutions Limited in 2017. Mr Bs complaint is that the lifetime mortgage 
was mis-sold.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B took out a lifetime mortgage with a lender Ill call M on advice from Key. The 
terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The mortgage is 
only due to be repaid if the property is sold voluntarily, or if the last surviving borrower goes 
into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid before either of those events 
have happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr B complained after requesting and receiving redemption quotations each of which 
included a substantial ERC. He complained, saying hed never been told anything about an 
ERC, or that his mortgage was linked to the stock market. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld; Mr B asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. Ive confined my findings to those issues that 
have a bearing on the outcome of the complaint. If I havent mentioned something, it isnt 
because Ive overlooked or ignored it; its because I didnt consider it material to the 
outcome.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2017. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Mr B has placed some emphasis on his poor health at the time, and believes Keys advisor 
should have realised he wasnt in a fit state to take the mortgage out. Mortgage advisors 
arent health experts, but they are expected to ask about an applicants health, as it will be 
relevant to the terms on which a lender will provide funding. 
The point of sale documentation does show that questions were asked and answered about 
Mr Bs health. I cant know if the advisor recorded everything Mr B told him, or indeed if Mr B 
disclosed everything there was to disclose. I will make one observation, however. Mr B has 
taken great exception to the advisors use of the word only when referring to him having 
undergone cancer surgery. Hes taken that as trivialising his condition; however, the context 
in which Ive read that is that the advisor recorded Mr Bs cancer as having been treated by 
surgery alone, with no other additional therapy involved.
The information-gathering exercise had identified specific financial objectives; chief amongst 
these was that Mr B wanted money to provide his then wife with a divorce settlement. That 
suggests to me that Mr B was in need of some form of borrowing if he was to be able to 
realise that objective.
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Mr B was recorded as retired and on a retirement income so it shouldnt be 
assumed that he would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage, given his age. 
This, combined with my earlier finding that some borrowing was necessary, meant that 
equity release (which required no monthly repayment) was probably the only viable option 
for Mr B, given the circumstances recorded at the time. 
As to the lifetime mortgage itself, its normal for interest to roll up, and then to attract further 
interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the 
point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an assumption that 
the mortgage will last for 15 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption 
and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
A lifetime mortgage is by its nature a long-term product, and the point of sale documents 
record that Mr B wasnt anticipating paying the mortgage off in the short-term. Its possible 
Mr B has changed his mind since then, hence why he has obtained redemption quotations. 
As I said earlier, the mortgage can be settled early, but the lender may charge an ERC in 
accordance with the terms of the contract.
In Mr Bs case, the ERC is a floating charge calculated by reference to an investment index, 
specifically the FTSE UK Gilt 15-year Yield Index. In simple terms, if the index yield  
expressed as a percentage  remained the same as or fell below a benchmark rate, an ERC 
would be payable whereas if the yield went above the benchmark, an ERC wouldnt be 
payable. 
Mr B says he knew nothing of this, and there was no mention of the stock market. But 
everything Ive just outlined above was set out in the mortgage offer Mr B received. The 
mortgage offer showed illustrative examples of the ERC that might be chargeable, 
depending on timing and how the index moved. I cant know how much of the information 
Mr B was able to assimilate. But the documents presented the information in a format that 
was consistent with the requirements set by the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, Mr B went on to sign a certificate confirming that hed received independent legal 
advice, and that the solicitor who he had consulted had explained the terms and implications 
of the mortgage to him.
Its unfortunate that Mr B obtained his redemption statements during a period when the yield 
had fallen, so each statement issued to him quoted a significant ERC. But its worth making 
the point that an ERC is only payable if the loan is repaid, and at a time when the yield is 
below the benchmark. The terms of the mortgage are such that at some future time, Mr B 
might be in a position where movement in the yield means he could repay the mortgage with a lower ERC or maybe no ERC at all. However, I make that latter observation merely for 
completeness and context; Mr B should not take that as a prediction of what will happen.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman