DRN-2826161
The complaint
Miss J has complained about the total loss settlement esure Insurance Limited paid her for 
her car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss J was unfortunately involved in an incident with another vehicle. She made 
a claim to her insurer, esure and it said it wasnt economical to repair Miss Js car. So it 
settled her claim as a total loss in line with the policy. 
Miss J was unhappy with the valuation esure gave  and the deduction esure took from the 
settlement for pre-existing damage to her car. But esure said it had reached it correctly and 
in line with the policy. 
Miss J asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought esure had unfairly made a 
deduction from the settlement for pre-existing damage. So she recommended esure pay 
Miss J £450 it deducted. 
Miss J didnt comment on the investigators findings. esure didnt agree. Its engineer 
believes they have been fair and reasonable in applying the deduction. 
As esure doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J says she bought the car in March 2020 and says she closely inspected it before doing 
so. She says the bodywork was in pristine condition. In March 2020 Miss Js car was two 
years old. When the incident occurred four months later, her cars mileage was below 
£25,000 miles. 
Miss J has described in detail the circumstances of the incident. Her car was dragged for 
some time by a Heavy Goods Vehicle on the motorway alongside roadworks. Miss J says 
due to the collision and the dragging of her car, she doesnt know how esure can conclude 
that stone and chip damage was pre-existing. Miss J says it hasnt provided evidence to 
support this. Miss J believes the damage esure says was pre-existing occurred during the 
incident. 
Ive considered the engineers report on this issue. They reported heavy structural damage 
to the nearside (left) side of Miss Js car. Photos taken shown other damage to the front 
bumper toward the nearside and stone chip damage to the nearside of the bonnet. The 
engineer identified some scratch and small dent damage to the rear and offside of the car. 
They described this as old damage. 
The engineer used an online tool to calculate the costs to repair what they identified as pre-
existing damage. This came to £907.80. The engineer says they have been fair and 
reasonable in not including all of the costs of these repairs  and have reduced the amount 
by 50% - which is in line with our approach for pre-existing damage deductions. 
However, Im more persuaded by Miss Js detailed account of how the incident took place 
and I think its more likely than not that the damage to her car could have been caused 
during the incident. So I dont think its fair and reasonable for esure to make the deduction it 
did of £450 from the total loss settlement.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has acted reasonably 
when reaching its valuation. Miss Js policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is 
the market value of the car at the time of loss. 
In line with our approach, motor trade guides have provided a valuation for Miss Js car. We 
find them more reliable than advertised prices as they are based on likely selling prices for 
the month of loss  based on the actual mileage, condition, age, model and specification of a 
vehicle. 
The guides produced valuations of £9,710, £10,800, £9,750 and £10,286 for Miss Js car. 
This was before any deduction for pre-existing damage. 
The average of the guides comes to £10,136. esure paid Miss J a total loss settlement of 
£9,687. By paying the deduction it took for pre-existing damage of £450 to Miss J, this brings 
the valuation to within the range of the guides which I think is fair in this case. 
So I think esure should pay Miss J £450 for the market value of her car and pay interest on 
the amount from the date it settled her claim to the date of payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
pay Miss J £450 as the balance of the total loss settlement under her claim. 
Pay interest on the sum at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date of 
settlement to the date it pays Miss J. 
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss J how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman