DRN-3202625
The complaint
Miss B complains about the settlement AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited offered 
her after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy following the theft of her car. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was stolen, and AA offered her £16,797, less the policy excess, in settlement of 
her claim. But Miss B thought her car was worth £18,500. So she wanted an increase in the 
settlement.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA hadnt 
done enough in reaching a valuation of Miss Bs car as it had used only two of the motor 
trade guides we use. He thought it should increase its settlement by £483 to take the 
valuation to £17,280.
AA replied that it had used the two trade guides correctly and its valuation was fair.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss B wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. I can see that her 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. And AA assessed this 
as £16,797.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought that AAs valuation was unfair and so Ive reviewed how he came to 
this conclusion. As he explained, we think its fair and reasonable to look for valuations in the 
three trade guides we use. And I can see that he checked these guides for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Miss Bs car. 
AA had checked two guides and the investigator agreed that the valuations it had found in 
these were correct. But AA hadnt looked at the third guide we use. So I agree that AA hadnt 
done enough to reach a fair valuation.
The investigator found valuations in all three guides, but he thought one was out of line with 
the others as it was significantly lower. Our approach is that if one guide is significantly out of 
line, wed consider the two guide values closest together to give a good indication of the 
likely pre-accident/loss market value, i.e. what it will cost the consumer to replace their car 
like for like. And wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair if it is in the range of these 
two guides. But, if theres an even spread between all of the guides, then a valuation within 
that range would generally be reasonable. 
In this case, I think it was reasonable to discount the lowest valuation as it was out of line 
with the others. AAs valuation wasnt in the range of the two other guides, so I think it wasnt 
fair. And I think that it would be reasonable to then take an average of the other two guides 
to reach a fair valuation. This leads to a pre-accident market value of £17,280. AA has 
already paid Miss B an interim settlement. So I think AA needs to pay Miss B £483 more for 
the market value of her car. 
I can see that Miss B has spent money servicing her car. But we consider that routine 
maintenance keeps the car roadworthy but doesnt increase its market value. So this isnt a 
reason to increase the valuation.
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss B £483 further in 
settlement of her claim for the loss of her car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman