DRN-3027416
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz 
Finance (MBFS).
  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr Y acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement. 
In November 2019 Mr Y reported a rattling noise in the vehicle, and repairs were undertaken 
to adjust the air vent. 
In January 2021 Mr Y reported problems with his parking sensors, and these were replaced. 
The sensors hadnt been appropriately fixed by a third-party insurance company. 
In February 2021 Mr Y reported problems with his brakes, and the car was booked into the 
dealership for April 2021. 
In March 2021 Mr Y contacted the dealership to say the brakes had failed completely, and 
the car was booked in on 30 March 2021. The dealership found oil in the pipes and said the 
oil pump needed to be replaced. The parts needed for the repair werent readily available, 
and they said it could be October or December before the repair was completed. 
The dealership provided Mr Y with a courtesy car whilst he was unable to drive his, but Mr Y 
was unhappy with this, because it wasnt of comparable comfort to the car hed hired. 
Unhappy with the length of time for the repairs to be completed, Mr Y complained to MBFS 
and asked to reject the vehicle. He also asked for his monthly payments to be returned 
whilst he was unable to use the vehicle, along with a refund for the other costs he was 
incurring for the service plan, and to tax and insure the car. 
MBFS sent Mr Y their final response to his complaint in April 2021. They said they had an 
opportunity to repair the vehicle, and as an update on the parts was due shortly, they 
wouldnt consider Mr Ys request to reject the vehicle at that time. They said they thought 
three months would be a reasonable period of time to complete the repair, and if the parts 
hadnt arrived by the end of June 2021, theyd reconsider Mr Ys case. They offered Mr Y 
£150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Y brought his complaint to this service. 
The parts were received earlier than expected, and Mr Ys car was repaired and returned to 
him at the end of May 2021. Mr Y reported a problem with the windscreen wipers shortly 
after the car was returned to him, and these were replaced by the dealership. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr Y. She thought the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mr Y. But as the faults had been repaired Mr Y couldnt 
now reject the vehicle. She thought that although the courtesy car provided by MBFS was 
different to the one acquired under the agreement, it broadly met Mr Ys needs. So, as hed 
been kept mobile, she didnt think MBFS needed to refund any of Mr Ys monthly payments. 
She recommended that MBFS pay Mr Y an additional £100 compensation, so £250 in total, 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience the situation had caused him since their final 
response, and that they refund the £27.50 Mr Y paid to declare his vehicle off road, plus 8% 
interest. 
Mr Y didnt agree. He said if hed hired a car like the courtesy car hed been supplied with, 
he wouldve paid much smaller monthly payments for it, so he should get some of his 
monthly payments back. He also didnt think the compensation amount fairly reflected the 
time and effort hed put into resolving the situation. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MBFS as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired new with a cash price of around £41,000. With this in mind, I 
think a reasonable person would expect to be able to use the car, free from even minor 
defects, for a considerable period of time. 
When Mr Y experienced a failure of his brakes, hed driven around 9,000 miles in the 
vehicle. Whilst the cause of the fault hasnt been detailed, there was found to be oil in the 
pipes, and a new oil pump was required to rectify the fault. 
I havent seen any evidence that the fault was due to driving style or third-party damage, nor 
does it appear to be as a result of normal wear and tear. I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect such a serious fault to occur on a vehicle that was around 18 months old and 
had covered less than 10,000 miles. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, MBFS should do to put things 
right. The CRA sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not to be of 
satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the goods. 
That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer.  
When Mr Y first took his vehicle to the dealership with the problem with the brakes, they 
didnt know when the part would be available. Mr Y asked to reject the vehicle at that time. 
MBFS said they wanted to wait and see if the car could be repaired. I think it was fair for 
MBFS to want to see if the repair could be done in a reasonable timeframe. And, ultimately, 
thats what happened. Mr Ys vehicle was repaired and returned to a satisfactory condition in 
around two months. So, I think that Mr Y received an appropriate remedy under the CRA 
and so he cant now reject the vehicle as well. 
MBFS provided Mr Y with a courtesy car whilst the repairs took place. Mr Y was unhappy 
with the courtesy car, as it wasnt comparable to the vehicle hed acquired under the 
agreement. Whilst I appreciate this, Mr Y was kept mobile. He was able to use the courtesy 
car for his usual activities, and it broadly met his needs. So, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask MBFS to return any of his monthly repayments made under the agreement.  
I appreciate that Mr Y suffered some inconvenience from having to use a courtesy car. This 
only happened because his original car which MBFS had supplied wasn't of satisfactory 
quality and needed repairing.
MBFS offered Mr Y £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused at 
the time they sent their final response in April 2021. Our investigator recommended an 
additional £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused after this 
date. 
Mr Y has been put to distress and inconvenience in having to take his vehicle to be repaired 
on different occasions, in thinking that it might take many months for the repair on his vehicle 
to take place, and in the poor communication between MBFS and Mr Y when arranging to 
return the repaired vehicle to him.
Overall, Im satisfied that a total of £250 compensation reflects the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr Y. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr Y paid £27.50 to declare his vehicle as SORN, and he did this 
because he thought it would be eight months before it was repaired, and he then wouldnt 
need to pay to tax the vehicle for this time. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Y to do 
this based on the information he had at the time. So, MBFS should refund Mr Y for this cost, 
plus 8% simple yearly interest. 
Mr Y said hes faced other costs for the car, like insurance and the service plan whilst he 
was unable to drive it. Mr Y wouldve need to pay these costs even if the car wasnt faulty, 
and he hasnt paid any additional costs for the courtesy car, so I dont think MBFS are 
responsible for the insurance and service plan costs. 
Mr Y said hes paid about £430 in taxi and bus fares whilst hes been without his vehicle. I 
havent seen any evidence of these costs or when they were incurred. As MBFS supplied Mr 
Y with a courtesy car, I dont think theyre responsible for these costs.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance must: Pay Mr Y a total of £250 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. This includes the £150 theyve already offered. 
Refund Mr Y £27.50 for additional expenses to SORN the vehicle, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest. 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr Y a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman