DRN-4000607
The complaint
Miss L has complained about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) failure to provide 
a boiler service. She has also complained about the poor customer service she received 
from British Gas, in relation to her HomeCare Policy. 
What happened
On 23 March 2022, Miss L complained to British Gas about several issues shed 
encountered when trying to utilise her HomeCare policy. These included not being able to 
have an annual service carried out at a weekend, and not receiving an annual service in 
2021. Mrs L was also unhappy about the incorrect information shed received from British 
Gas agents when trying to arrange a boiler repair and felt that one of its live chat agents 
wasnt professional in his communication.
British Gas issued its final response letter addressing Miss Ls concerns on 16 June 2022. In 
summary, it apologised for its agents unprofessional communication, and explained that 
engineers in Miss Ls area were only available to respond to emergency breakdowns on 
weekends. With regard to the annual service, it said it had refunded the cost of the annual 
service to Miss L. British Gas also offered to pay Miss L £60 compensation to say sorry for 
the poor service shed received. 
Unhappy with British Gas response to her complaint Miss L referred it to this service. She 
clarified that she had arranged an appointment for repair and the service, beyond the cover 
period and was assured that while she was no longer a HomeCare customer, because shed 
booked the engineers appointment while she was a customer, the repair would be carried 
out. However, she was subsequently called by British Gas to advise that no appointment to 
carry out the repair would be honoured because her contract had come to an end. Then, on 
the day of the appointment, a British Gas engineer phoned her to say that he was on his 
way. He also told her that the statements about the lack of availability for weekend 
appointments for repairs or service, were untrue. Miss L then asked for all contact from 
British Gas to be by letter, which wasnt adhered to as she continued to receive calls and 
messages from the complaints department. She received a cheque for £60 compensation 
which she didnt accept, but not the cheque for £65 in reimbursement of the annual service 
fee.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. He said that British Gas had acted fairly by refunding the service fee and offering 
£60 compensation. With regard to the refund of premiums that Miss L requested, our 
investigator explained that as she had been provided with cover for the time that she had 
taken out the policy, and as British Gas would have been required by the policy terms to 
respond to any claim Miss L made on the policy, it was fair for the premiums to be kept by 
British Gas. 
Miss L didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. I will explain why.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to impartially consider individual complaints
where a customer thinks they have lost out financially because of a businesss actions. If we
think a business has done something wrong, we can also award compensation to a
customer for the impact the mistake has had on them.
In Miss Ls case, the first question Ive considered is whether the policy terms say that the 
policyholder is entitled to book a weekend appointment for a boiler service.
On page 28 of the policy terms, under the heading: Visiting you and the subheading annual 
service it says in relation to the timing of the appointments: we aim to complete the majority 
of annual service visits in the summer months so you can have confidence your boiler is in 
good shape going into winter. In periods of local or national high demand for our services 
(such as cold weather) we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual 
service. There is no mention of weekend availability for appointments for the servicing of 
boilers. British Gas explained that they reserve some weekend appointments for emergency 
repairs, however, if those are not taken it may be possible to make an appointment on the 
weekend for a boiler service. It is only when a customer makes an appointment via their live 
appointment calendar, that the current availability will be shown.
I appreciate that Miss L was frustrated at not being able to arrange a boiler service for a 
weekend day, however, I cant see that British Gas was bound to meet such a request in its 
terms and conditions. Ive considered the actions British Gas has taken to apologise to 
Miss L for not providing the boiler service in the contract year, and Im satisfied that its offer 
to reimburse the boiler fee was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss L has provided a detailed explanation of the comments she says were made by various 
British Gas employees with regard to her attempts to arrange for an engineer to service and 
repair her boiler. And while I can understand that she was upset and inconvenienced by the 
way British Gas communicated with her, it has acknowledged that the service provided by its 
advisors falls below the standards it sets for itself. British Gas confirmed theyd provided 
feedback to their employees / agents and offered Miss L £60 compensation for the upset it 
had caused her. I think this was a fair response from British Gas in the circumstances and I 
dont think the impact of the poor customer service on Miss L warrants asking British Gas to 
pay her additional compensation.
I also agree with our investigators conclusion regarding the refund of premiums Miss L has 
requested. British Gas provided cover for Miss L, for the period during which she paid 
premiums, and I dont think the actions it, and its agents / employees have taken, warrants 
the award of this amount of additional compensation.
I am sorry to disappoint Miss L, but I think the refund of £65 and compensation of £60 
offered by British Gas provides fair and reasonable compensation for the errors it has made 
in Miss Ls case. I therefore wont be recommending that British Gas should do anything 
more. I understand that the cheques British Gas previously issued to Miss L have now 
expired. So, if Miss L chooses to accept this decision, then British Gas should promptly re-
issue the cheques to Miss L. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman