DRN-2246869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
has handled their claim under their home insurance policy after their house was damaged by 
a flood.
What happened
In 2012, Mr and Mrs As home was flooded. They made a claim under their policy which 
RSA accepted. RSA arranged for repair work to be carried out. This was completed in 2013.
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs A complained to RSA. They had concerns about the quality of 
the repair work which had been carried out under the claim.
In March 2017, RSA responded to say that its loss adjuster, having inspected the property, 
had confirmed that the repair works were poor and required rectification. It offered to arrange 
for the repairs to be re-done so as to leave the property in the condition it was in before the 
flood occurred. Mr and Mrs A accepted this offer. 
Mr and Mrs A became unhappy with the progress of the new repair work. In December 2018, 
they complained to us about the way their claim had been handled since the outset.
In May 2019, our investigator issued a view that we couldnt consider the complaint due to it 
being time barred. This was because the investigator believed that RSA had issued a final 
response letter in March 2017 and Mr and Mrs A hadnt referred their complaint to us within 
six months of that letter. Mr and Mrs A didnt challenge the investigators view and our file 
was closed.
Mr and Mrs A continued to be unhappy with the quality and progress of the new repair work. 
In July 2019, they again complained to RSA. They raised various concerns about 
outstanding issues, including the adequacy of the new boiler which had been fitted, and 
drew attention to the amount of time they had needed to devote to dealing with the claim due 
to its poor handling.
In October 2019, RSA issued a final response letter. It acknowledged that the boiler which 
had been fitted was not adequate for the property. It agreed to replace this with a suitable 
boiler. It noted that all snagging issues had now been resolved but nonetheless offered £600 
compensation for the poor service provided by its contractors.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy at RSAs offer. They referred their complaint to us.
In August 2020, our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should be 
upheld. She considered that RSA had caused considerable inconvenience to Mr and Mrs A 
through its poor handling of the claim since March 2017. She recommended that it should 
pay them compensation of £2,000.
RSA initially indicated it would accept the recommendation as a means of resolving the 
dispute. However, the investigator clarified that this was on top of the £600 offered 
previously, meaning the total compensation would be £2,600, RSA didnt accept the 
recommendation. It considered this was excessive for the circumstances of the case.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first of all clarify the extent of this complaint.
This complaint is about a claim which started in 2012. Mr and Mrs A made an earlier 
complaint to RSA about the quality of the original repair work. RSA responded to that 
complaint in March 2017 and offered to re-do the repair work. Mr and Mrs A accepted this 
offer at that time. In December 2018, Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to us about the 
quality of the original repair work but in June 2019 our investigator said we couldnt consider 
this complaint because it was referred more than six months after RSAs final response letter 
and was therefore time barred.
To clarify, our investigator was wrong about this. RSAs correspondence of March 2017 was 
not a final response letter and therefore the complaint was not time barred under our rules. 
However, our rules allow us to dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if we 
believe that dealing with such a complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective 
operation of our service. Mr and Mrs A apparently accepted RSAs proposed resolution of 
their complaint in March 2017. They waited over eighteen months before deciding after all to 
refer their complaint about the original repair work to us and furthermore didnt challenge the 
investigators view when she said we were unable to consider that complaint. In these 
circumstances, I do not consider it appropriate for this service to re-visit the issues of the 
original repair work in this complaint (except insofar as I later explain). I am therefore only 
considering events since March 2017.
After Mr and Mrs A referred this complaint to us following RSAs final response letter of 
October 2019, they continued to raise concerns about unresolved issues. RSA said it did not 
want us to consider events beyond the date of its final response letter and asked that Mr and 
Mrs A submit a new complaint in respect of these. However, even after the investigator had 
made it aware of the new complaint, RSA didnt issue a further final response letter to 
Mr and Mrs A within eight weeks. The investigator therefore advised RSA that she was 
considering these further issues when she issued her view. Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for the investigator to take this approach. I am therefore considering events up until August 
2020 when the investigator issued her view.
Let me now turn to the actual merits of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs A accepted RSAs proposed settlement of their complaint in March 2017. 
However, the new repair works did not start until July 2018. RSA has provided no 
explanation for this delay but Mr and Mrs A said it was due to RSA being unable to find them 
suitable alternative accommodation to live in for the duration of the works. Mr and Mrs A said 
that they eventually found the accommodation themselves. I consider this delay would have 
caused inconvenience to Mr and Mrs A given that until then they were living in a house 
which was in need of repair.
When Mr and Mrs A accepted RSAs proposed settlement of their complaint in March 2017, 
they were under the impression that the re-done works would take approximately 8-10 
weeks to complete. In the event, they moved to alternative accommodation in July 2018 and  werent able to move back to their home until some 22 weeks later in December 2018. The 
reason the work took so long was apparently because during the course of the re-done 
repairs, other faults were uncovered which also required re-doing.
I cant reasonably compensate Mr and Mrs A for the first 8-10 weeks they were forced to live 
away from their home while repair works were carried out. This is because they presumably 
knew this would be the case when they accepted RSAs proposed settlement of their 
complaint in March 2017 and therefore this does not represent any failing of RSA which has 
occurred, or been discovered, since that date. However, at the time they accepted that 
settlement, Mr and Mrs A would have been unaware of the additional work which needed 
doing, which caused them to have to live in alternative accommodation for a further 12-14 
weeks. And while this additional work was all necessary due to the poor quality of the 
original repair work, I consider it is reasonable for me to consider the inconvenience which it 
caused to Mr and Mrs A. In addition to the unsettling experience of living in temporary 
accommodation, I note they have referred to the time they had to spend travelling regularly 
between this and their home to check the property had been left secure by RSAs 
contractors.
After Mr and Mrs A moved back into their home in December 2018, they continued to 
experience problems. In particular, the boiler which had been fitted was inadequate for their 
property. The problems which resulted from this caused them further inconvenience.
When RSA issued its final response letter of October 2019, it agreed to replace the boiler 
with a suitable model. However, problems continued after that date. In particular, the new 
boiler leaked which caused further damage to the property. At the time of the investigators 
view, some of this damage still hadnt been repaired and there were other bits of work, albeit 
relatively minor, which were still outstanding.
I imagine that Mr and Mrs A are very frustrated to still be dealing with the fallout from a claim 
which was made over eight years earlier. Clearly, RSA has not handled matters well and 
should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs A. I have explained what events I can, and cant, 
take into account in deciding on the appropriate level of compensation. Bearing in mind the 
trouble and upset which has been caused to Mr and Mrs A over the relevant period, I dont 
consider that RSAs offer of £600 was sufficient. I consider it should pay a further £2,000, to 
bring the total compensation to £2,600.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs A a further £2,000 in 
compensation to bring the total amount of compensation to £2,600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman