DRN-4334555
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) misadvised him that 
he had to attend a branch to withdraw his funds when it closed his account. This meant that 
he had to take a day off work needlessly. Mr B wants Halifax to compensate him for this. 
What happened
Following a review Halifax advised Mr B that it would be closing his account.  Mr B called 
Halifax and was told by numerous advisers that he could attend one of its branches to 
transfer his funds to another account. 
Mr B says the local branch of Halifax was only open during his working hours, so he was 
forced to take annual leave to attend the branch. Mr B says he spent over an hour at the 
branch and wasnt able to transfer his funds and had to withdraw them in cash. Mr B says 
this was unnecessary as following this he found that he was able to use telephone banking 
to transfer a credit received to another account without attending a branch.
Mr B complained to Halifax about the service and advice he received surrounding this. 
Halifax says that it was an error on its part that Mr B was able to transfer between accounts 
 he shouldnt have been able to do this. Halifax apologized for the errors and 
misinformation on its part and acknowledged that it could do better and paid Mr B £25 
compensation.
Mr B was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and agreed that the service Mr B 
received couldve been better but thought the £25 was fair and reasonable to address the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Halifaxs errors. They didnt agree Halifax should 
compensate Mr B for the days annual leave because Mr B was always going to have to go 
into branch to access his funds and ultimately it was his choice when to go. 
Mr B disagreed, he doesnt think the compensation is enough. Mr B has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as the hours it operates and the services it 
provides. Ultimately, how a bank runs its business and the processes it has in place are 
commercial decisions and isnt something for me to get involved with. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr B has experienced and see if Halifax has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr B back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr B isnt disputing Halifaxs decision to close his account. Mr Bs complaint is that it mis-
advised him regarding the need to attend a branch to withdraw the funds from his account 
when he found he could transfer funds credited to his account through telebanking.
Halifax has agreed it made some errors  but not in the advice Mr B was given about his 
need to attend a branch to withdraw the proceeds of his account. This advice was in fact 
correct and the error was that Mr B shouldnt have been able to carry out this transaction. 
Halifax has apologised for its errors and for the misinformation Mr B received and 
compensated him £25.
So what I need to decide is whether this is enough to compensate Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience he says he suffered. And I think it is. I appreciate how frustrated Mr B is about 
all of this.  But things dont always go smoothly and our role isnt to penalise or punish a 
business when a business makes a mistake  rather it is to try and put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes had not have happened. 
In this case Mr B wants to be compensated for the time he took off work to attend a branch -
he says needlessly. But sometimes life requires us to spend time dealing with personal 
matters  such as the opening and closing of bank accounts. And as our adjudicator has 
already pointed out  Mr B was always going to have to attend a branch of Halifax to 
withdraw his funds  there was no mistake here  the mistake was that following this he was 
able to transfer out of his account over the phone.
So on this basis I think the £25 compensation Halifax has already paid for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B experienced is fair, so Im not going to ask it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to settle Mr Bs complaint is a fair and I do not require it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman