DRN-3307039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs O are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2017, Mr and Mrs O were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs O decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In April 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Os behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs O to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,826 to mislead Mr and Mrs O, as 
when the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,672;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs O or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs O and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never given Mr and Mrs O the opportunity to read or question Ps 
quote before signing it, and so our adjudicator had placed too much weight on it;
a copy of the quote had only been sent to them to read in their own time after 
signing;
certain parts of the quote had been misleadingly explained by the salesman (I will 
deal with these in turn later in this decision);
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs O could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs O and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
The quote only names Mr O as a party to the contract, not Mrs O, so only Mr O can bring a 
claim under section 75. However, I think that Mrs O still has rights under section 56, as she 
was still induced to enter into the credit agreement as a result of negotiations with P.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs O say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Os testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs O, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Its not in dispute that the 
salesperson went through it during the meeting (although it is alleged that he lied about what 
it meant). So, Ive taken this document into account, along with Mr and Mrs Os version of 
events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs O were told that the overall cost of the system was 
more than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £9,826.95 is only the cash 
price. It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total 
charge for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £18,672.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Os recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr and Mrs O more than the cash 
price as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs O have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Os recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote (page 8) sets out the estimated income Mr and 
Mrs O could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into 
the expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs O could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £200.72, which results in an average monthly income of £16.73. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £103.93. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs O were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs O could expect from the 
system, under the heading Your electricity bill savings. The expected year one electricity 
savings is £307.22. When taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs O, 
the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £758.31. This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together on page 9.
It also appears in the Key Facts section on page 2, in a large font.
Theres a section on pages 10 and 11 headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs O entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £103.93. (This is incorrect; 
the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £103.18, but the difference  75p  is 
too small to affect the following observations by much.)
For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£103.93, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first nine years of 
the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money to cover the loan 
payments for nine years. (This would have been eight years if the correct monthly payment 
figure of £103.18 had been used instead.)
Mr and Mrs O have alleged that when the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting, 
he told them to ignore the minus signs, because their savings on their electricity bills would 
cover any deficit. However, all three tables begin with the total savings figure for year 1 of 
£758.31 from the Putting it all together and Key Facts sections. This figure appears in the 
table under the column heading Acc. grand total. So I dont accept that they were told that 
the grand total was really just the FIT income alone, or that the table did not include the 
savings on their bills.
I think the table clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs O could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs O werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.)
I have also considered the following graph on page 6 of the quote, which Mr and Mrs O have 
said the salesman used to explain that they would make a profit each month after paying 
their loan payments. The orange line shows the monthly loan repayments, and the green line 
shows profit. And I do think that this graph was not as clear as it could have been.
I think this graph is unclear in two ways. Firstly, the x-axis shows 25 years, and the heading 
refers to 25 years, but the text underneath the graph explains that the monthly average 
returns are actually based on the total return averaged over 360 months, which is 30 years. 
That difference is not explained. Secondly, although the heading and the smaller text both 
explain that the green line shows an average of the monthly returns (over 25 or 30 years), 
this chart does not explain that the monthly returns will increase over time, and that the 
returns will not be enough to cover the loan payments for several years. Whereas in the long 
term the monthly returns were expected to exceed the loan payments, a quick glance at this 
chart, without context, could give the incorrect impression that the system would be 
profitable immediately. (It would have been better to show the green line starting at about 
£63 and then curving upwards to cross the orange line around year eight or nine.)
If taken on its own, that chart could potentially be quite misleading. However, when it is 
considered as part of the quote as a whole, taking into account the other information I have 
set out already, I am not persuaded that the quote as a whole is misleading.
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Os version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, and that it was clear overall, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs O that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 75p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments, and the fact that the first row is obscured by the misaligned text).
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and savings, and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs O were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 10 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs O could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
The smaller text underneath says that this refers to the cash price of the system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page two, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining, or that it was confusing or 
misleading. This figure also appears in the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows (in the Acc. grand total column) that during year 10 the overall 
benefits that Mr and Mrs O could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, 
£9,826.95.
The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£18,672.40, would be reached during year 16 (although that amount is not shown in the 
quote but only in the loan agreement).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs O that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 10 years, and for the loan in 15 to 16 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone 
on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr and Mrs O.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,048 kWh a 
year. I have seen no evidence (such as FIT statements or a meter reading) to show that the 
system is not generating as much energy as this. So I cannot infer that the reason Mr and 
Mrs O have not seen the financial returns they expected is because the system is defective; 
from what I have seen in other similar cases, it is likely to be due to another reason.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs O havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs O could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs O entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr O to enter 
into the contract for the system, or that induced Mr and Mrs O to enter into the credit 
agreement, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman