DRN-2870766
Complaint
Mr J has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCR) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr J bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
OCR, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr J alleges that the installer misled Mr J into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr J signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the total cost of the solar panels and therefore the 
system would not be self-funding in the way Mr J says he was led to believe. So, the 
investigator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr J disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and this installer was known more widely to mis-lead its customers. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Mr J was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document. 
The first page of the sales document highlights an annual benefit amount of £637.69. This 
figure is not hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. So, I think he 
wouldve, at the very least, seen this figure even on a quick glimpse. 
Part two of this document goes on to clearly set out the cost of the solar panel system 
including the 10-year loan he agreed to  the total cost being £17,588.44.  
Mr J has signed directly beneath this section, so again I think he wouldve seen this during 
the sales meeting. Immediately above his signature, he has also confirmed thorough a set of 
tick boxes that he had seen both part 1 and part 2 of the document. 
The costs and the benefits are all included in the one sales document, which isnt very long. 
So, I think its likely that these figures formed part of the sales discussion. And it doesnt look 
like Mr J was given an array of documents to look through during the discussions. 
Given Mr J was agreeing to a significant purchase, I would have expected him to have 
looked over this document before agreeing to such a purchase and signing the document. 
Based on this, I think Mr J ought reasonably to have known that an annual benefit amount of 
£637.69 over 10 years, would not equate to anywhere near £17,588.44. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he says he was told they would be. 
If Mr J had been told something different, on being asked to sign this document, and 
reviewing these figures, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been 
told. Ive seen no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely 
did not contradict Mr Js understanding, at that time. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Js testimony, and his representatives comments regarding a 
wider concern of mis-leading customers. But I have to decide each case on its individual 
merits. And in this case, I find the documents from the time of sale to be more persuasive in 
terms of what information Mr J was likely given at the time of sale. So, on balance, I think the 
evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman