DRN-3826567
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, has complained that Morses Club PLC lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Morses records, here is a brief loan table.
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amountWeeks 
Live
1 07/08/2015 04/03/2016 £300.00 £210.00 34 £15.00 30
2 04/03/2016 21/10/2016 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00 33
3 19/01/2017 09/09/2017 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00 33
4 11/10/2017 10/03/2018 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00 21
5 29/12/2017 10/03/2018 £600.00 £492.00 52 £21.00 10
Morses received the complaint from Mr Bs representative and I have seen a copy of it. I will 
refer to it later in the decision. Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) and did not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said:
Your application history shows you declared you had an average income of £524.00, 
expenditure of £265.00 and a disposable income of £259.00, which was more than 
adequate to meet your repayments.
Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our adjudicators looked at the complaint and a brief assessment resulted in an outcome of 
loans 3 to 5 being upheld by us. Morses responded to explain why it did not agree and 
I summarise its points here:
Before loan 3 was taken there had been a break of almost three months
Loan 3 was the same capital sum as loan 2 and Mr Bs repayments did not increase 
 they remained at £20 each week
There was a 5 week break before loan 5 and it was the same capital sum as before
Loan 4 was settled 12 weeks early
Loan 5 was for a larger sum and a longer term. The cost to Mr B had not increased 
much as it was £21 a week
Loans 4 and 5 ran together and the total repayment was 8.2% of his income each 
week
Loan 5 was repaid after 10 weeks 
The income for loans 3 to 5 was confirmed with copies of wage slips
Mr B never said to any of the agents that he had any difficulties and Mr B never 
received any arrears letters during the lending relationship
One of our adjudicators decided to issue a view and in it he reiterated the earlier view that 
Morses should not have lent to Mr B for loans 3 to 5 because he felt that Morses should 
have 
reasonably questioned whether continuing to offer further loans to a customer who 
appears to be reliant on this form of lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
I say this because:
 [Mr B] had taken 3 loans in 17 months;
 the amounts they were borrowing increased over this period and for the rest of the
borrowing relationship with you;
 [Mr Bs] borrowing didnt significantly reduce over time and reported a reduction in
income compared to his previous loan.
So in my view, the pattern of lending itself shows that the loans from here were 
unsustainable  so I dont think you should have given [Mr B] any of loans 3 to 5.
Morses continued to disagree and Mr Bs representative was informed the complaint was 
being passed to an ombudsman for review. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 16 December 2022 I decided to 
issue a provisional decision to give Mr B time to respond and send evidence to me if he felt it 
was right to do so to substantiate his complaint. That provisional decision is duplicated in full 
here  it is in smaller type to differentiate it.  
My provisional decision dated 16 December 2022 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, 
short-term and home credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. Our adjudicator considered this to
be the case for Mr B.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not justwhether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint. My provisional decision, based on
current evidence, is that there is nothing in the complaint files to demonstrate to me that
Mr B was either finding it difficult to repay the loans, was reliant on the credit or was not able
to afford the £20 or £21 each week for loans 3 to 5.
It seems that Mr B was content with the outcome for loans 1 and 2 as his representatives
response to the adjudicators view was to express disappointment at Morses objection to it 
meaning that Morses was challenging the outcome for loans 3 to 5. So, I do not consider
that I need to review loans 1 and 2 but I have referred to some of the evidence on those two
loans to gain a picture of Mr Bs finances as I wanted to use all of what little I have.
The evidence from both parties.
Mr B is represented by a professional claims management company and it is with that
evidence I commence.
Mr Bs representatives letter to Morses to complain on Mr Bs behalf was dated March 2022
and after outlining the regulatory requirements and the basis of his complaint it listed the
accounts that it had discovered were active using Mr Bs credit report. No copy of the report
was included. That listed a series of accounts all of which were in credit, had payments up
to date markers and generally appeared to be satisfactory. There was reference to a default
but there is no date and Ive seen no record of it  it was for £880. It may be that Mr B can
send further details if he wants. Apart from that there is nothing else listed likely to cause a
concern.
There was reference to two accounts with two companies I recognise may have been
collection agencies commencing June 2016 and September 2016  according to the list. And
it has a note next to each saying that a limit was exceeded several times. If these accounts
do relate to some sort of collection then the reference to a limit being exceeded does not
make sense. But the lack of detail and the lack of explanation as to what that limit was and
when those apparently took place means that the evidence is fairly meaningless.
In its current format, I attach little weight to these lists of figures and dates as the credit
report from which this information was taken would provide me with further details and would
constitute the actual evidence.
Morses has said it does not hold a record of any credit searches and so has not been able to
send me anything.
As the earlier loans were applications carried out on paper I have looked at them to get an
idea as to what Mr B was declaring to Morses in 2015 and 2016. I have seen that he
informed it in August 2015 that he earned £320 a week and the agent had said she had seen
evidence of that. Further, that his outgoings (including rent, bills and living costs) came to
£190 a week and it looks like the disposable amount each week was £130 although the
agent has placed that figure in the wrong part of the application I think.
The paper application for March 2016 gives details that Mr B earned £750 a week (evidence
seen, the form states), and his outgoings were £415 a week and his disposable income was
£335. So, at this stage it seemed that Mr B had plenty of disposable income with which to
afford loans 1 and 2.The loans after that were applied for differently and we have been sent the front sheet
which shows these figures for loans 3 to 5 and that the wages evidence had been validated:
Income Expenditure Disposable income
£550.00 £270.00 £280.00
£500.00 £280.00 £220.00
£500.00 £170.00 £330.00
The figures for rent and utilities seem to fluctuate between a combined figure of £130 and
£175 so even if I use the higher figure of £175 for both then the loans looked affordable still.
And I note that loans 4 and 5 overlapped for a while and so Mr B would have been paying
£41 a week.
I have been provided with the repayment records and those do show me that Mr B paid
down loans to zero before taking the next one for loans 2 and 3. And there was a clear gap
of about three months between loans 2 and 3 and a month between paying off loans 3 and
applying for loan 4 as well as paying them both down to zero.
None of those repayment history figures nor the sequence of the lending history suggests to
me either that Mr B had trouble repaying or that he needed the next loan to repay the
previous, or that he was reliant on the credit he was getting from Morses.
Loan 5 did overlap with loan 4 but both were repaid very early with a lump sum of £814.36
on 10 March 2018, according to the records provided.
As I have outlined earlier, without further details from Mr B, I can only rely on the
contemporaneous evidence of the application data and that shows me that Mr B could afford
the loans. The good repayment records, the gaps in the lending and the early repayments do not 
demonstrate to me that Mr B was reliant on the credit, or that the approval of the loans was harmful to 
him or that he could not repay them sustainably.
If there was a default on Mr Bs record (yet I do not know the date of that default  it may
have post-dated the lending) then one default on a persons record is not usually a reason
for a lender such as Morses not to lend. So, I doubt it would have made much of a difference.
I do think that by the time Mr B was applying for loan 5 when loan 4 was still outstanding,
that Morses ought to have carried out some more checks to find out a little more about
Mr Bs financial situation. And I do not think that it did that.
But, I have nothing substantive from Mr B to show me what his financial position was in
December 2017 for me to be able to assess what Morses might have discovered if it had
done more. The evidence I do have are the contemporaneous records of Mr Bs income and
expenditure which shows me that Mr B could afford the repayments easily.
Mr B has time to send me additional evidence if he wishes and as he is represented
professionally no doubt he can be guided as to what to send.
On current evidence I plan not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr Bs representative and Morses have replied to say that they have nothing further to 
add to my findings as set out in the provisional decision.In the circumstances I see no reason to depart from those provisional findings. They are 
repeated here and form part of the final decision. As nothing new has been provided, I still 
dont think Morses was wrong to have approved any of the loans based on the information 
that I have available. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman