DRN-3802506
The complaint
Mrs D complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAIC) and the service 
she received after she notified them of her involvement in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mrs D held an insurance policy that was underwritten by AAIC. Unfortunately, on 9th 
December 2021, Mrs Ds car was damaged while it was parked and unattended on a 
supermarket carpark. A third-party car had reversed into a sign that had in turn fallen onto 
Mrs Ds car, causing significant damage.
Mrs D utilised a separate roadside assistance policy to recover her vehicle on the day. And 
the following day, she contacted AAIC to notify them of the accident and make a claim on 
her insurance policy. But due to the fact the damage was caused by a third-party, through no 
fault of Mrs Ds own, AAIC took the decision to refer Mrs Ds claim to a separate claims 
management company, who Ill refer to as X, who would in turn recoup the costs from the 
third party insurer.
But following this referral there were difficulties locating Mrs Ds car and arranging for it to be 
taken to a garage to be repaired. Mrs D entered into a continuous conversation with AAIC 
regarding this over the following days, who worked with X and the initial recovery agent to 
locate the car and ensure it was taken to the correct place. But Mrs D was unhappy with the 
service she received during this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs D was unhappy with AAICs decision to refer her to X. And she was unhappy with the 
stress and inconvenience she was caused when speaking to AAIC to try and understand 
where her car was located. So, she wanted to be compensated for this.
AAIC responded to Mrs Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to 
refer Mrs Ds claim to X was a fair one, as it meant she wouldnt need to pay a policy excess 
and would receive a like for like courtesy car. And they thought the difficulties regarding the 
locating of her car, and its transportation to a repairing garage, fell under the remit of X, 
rather than themselves. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs D 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought AAIC had acted fairly 
when referring the claim to X, as Mrs D had confirmed to our investigator this wouldve been 
the choice shed have made had she fully understood the reasoning. But our investigator 
thought AAIC couldve done more to ensure Mrs D understood their role in the claim process 
and what actions needed to be taken when she spoke to them after the referral had been 
made. So, our investigator recommended AAIC pay Mrs D £100 to recognise the upset this 
caused Mrs D, considering her individual circumstances.
Our investigator initially stated this offer was above an additional £30 AAIC had already 
made. But its since been confirmed the £30 was offered by the company who initially 
recovered Mrs Ds car, who are regulated separately to AAIC. Our investigator has made 
Mrs D aware of this and she recognises this £30 will not impact this decision.
But Mrs D accepted our investigators recommendation that AAIC should pay her £100. 
However, AAIC didnt. They thought the issue that led Mrs D to call them was the 
responsibility of X, not theirs. So, they thought theyd acted more than fairly by attempting to 
assist Mrs D even though the claim had been referred away from them. So, they didnt think 
it was fair that they should be the ones to compensate Mrs D.
Our investigator considered this challenge but didnt agree. And they maintained their view 
that, on calls between AAIC and Mrs D, there was clear confusion created and that AAIC 
couldve done more to prevent this. So, they felt the £100 payment was a fair 
recommendation. AAIC continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Its not in dispute that AAIC took the decision to refer 
Mrs Ds claim to X. So, from this referral, the progression of the claim and the way it was 
handled falls under the responsibility of X rather an AAIC and so, hasnt been considered as 
part of this complaint.
Im also aware that Mrs D raised a complaint with the company who arranged the original 
recovery, who offered to pay Mrs D £30. Its my understanding that Mrs D didnt cash this 
cheque and so, she will need to work with that company to receive another valid cheque. 
This is because they are regulated separately to AAIC and so, AAIC arent responsible for 
their actions or payment of any compensation they offer.
What I can consider is AAICs decision to refer Mrs Ds claim, and the way they 
communicated this to Mrs D. And, while they werent responsible for the progression of Mrs 
Ds claim from this point, I can consider the service they provided to Mrs D on her phone 
calls to them as Mrs D remained a customer of theirs as she held a valid insurance policy 
that they are the underwriters for.
I can see Mrs D has confirmed that, if shed understood the referral process and the benefits 
of this, then she wouldve elected to pass her claim to X from AAIC. So, Im satisfied AAICs 
decision to refer Mrs Ds claim was fair, and in her best interests.
But from the call recordings Ive been provided, Ive heard that AAIC were unable to speak to 
Mrs D to confirm this referral. So, they confirmed it in a voicemail, where Mrs D was unable 
to ask questions or confirm her understanding. And I think this contributed to the confusion 
Mrs D then faced over the coming days.
Ive then listened to the calls between AAIC and Mrs D from the date of referral through to 15 
December, when her car was located. While I dont in any way feel as though location issues 
were the fault of AAICs, I do think they couldve done more to help ease Mrs Ds confusion 
with how they handled the calls.In these calls, I think it was clear Mrs D was confused and failed to understand the difference 
between AAIC and X. And I think there were several occasions where this couldve been 
made clearer to Mrs D. Again, I appreciate X also had a responsibility to introduce 
themselves and explain this to Mrs D as well, but I dont think this means AAIC had no 
responsibility at all here.
Also, in two of the calls, I think it became audibly clear that Mrs Ds confusion because a 
source of frustration to AAICs handler. And while I do think the handler had taken steps to 
try and rectify Mrs Ds situation when they didnt necessarily need to do so, I think the tone 
the handler took in parts of conversations held with Mrs D were slightly abrupt. I also think 
the handler couldve done more to help Mrs D navigate the situation, for example where they 
asked Mrs D to state where she wanted to car the be taken to when I think it was already 
clear Mrs D was confused and seeking assistance.
So, I do think there were elements of the service AAIC provided that couldve been better. 
So, I dont think I can say theyve acted fairly and because of this, Ive thought about what I 
think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what AAIC should do to put things right, Ive thought about the 
individual circumstances of the complaint and so, Mrs Ds own personal situation.
I think its clear Mrs D was confused regarding the claim process. And I think this wouldve 
been stressful and upsetting for Mrs D, especially considering her vulnerabilities. While I do 
think AAIC were fair to refer the claim, I think they couldve made this clearer. And I think 
their failure to do so added to Mrs Ds confusion and so, the stress and upset she felt.
I also recognise Mrs D had to speak to AAIC on several occasions to try and understand her 
claim situation, and the location of her car. And I think this wouldve been inconvenient. Had 
AAIC acted fairly, and been clearer in their communication with her, I think the amount of 
times Mrs D needed to speak to AAIC couldve been reduced. And so, the stress and upset 
caused to her wouldve been lessened. I also think there were times where AAICs 
frustrations became apparent on the phone calls and I think this tone would added to Mrs 
Ds already clear upset and confusion. 
Our investigator recommended that AAIC pay Mrs D £100 to recognise the confusion and 
upset she was caused. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with 
what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it fairly compensated Mrs D for 
the impact Ive detailed above, while also taking into consideration the fact AAIC were acting 
in Mrs Ds best interests and attempted to find a solution to an issue in the claim process 
that was the responsibility of Xs, and not theirs.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint about AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs D £100 to recognise the upset and confusion she was caused by the lack of 
communication and guidance she received regarding her claim referral and the 
recovery of her car.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman