DRN-2431004
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as V complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr O who is a director of V brings the complaint on Vs behalf. Mr O is helped in bringing this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, I will refer to all actions and comments as being those of 
Mr O. 
What happened
V has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds. Mr O made a claim 
on that policy to cover Vs losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lloyds declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
the disease and denial of access sections of the policy meant that Vs claim should be 
covered.
Mr O complained to Lloyds but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. And it didnt think Vs claim was covered under any of the other sections of the 
policy. Mr O wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Os complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathised with Mr Os situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr O didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr O took out. 
Mr Os policy included an extension which provided cover for infectious diseases. The policy 
states that it provides cover in consequence of the occurrence at the Premises of a 
notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition (or) vermin, pests or defective sanitation; 
which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice of the competent 
local authority.
The policy provides a definition for the term notifiable human infectious or contagious
disease, which states:
It is hereby understood and agreed that for the purpose of the cover afforded by this
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious 
diseaseshall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 or the 
Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, (Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified), 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever.
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the insurers.
Given that COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and which does 
now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that subsequently 
became notifiable. In contrast, Vs policy includes a list of notifiable diseases as it was at a 
particular time. And I havent seen anything in the policy which implies that cover will be 
provided for diseases not on the list set out in the policy, including for any new diseases 
which emerge. The policy specifies that no other diseases can be added to the list without 
Lloyds prior written consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover 
to those diseases listed within the policy. 
Mr O has stated that the list of diseases includes the word viral and as COVID-19 is a 
virus, it should be covered under the policy. The word viral is used to describe an 
identifiable disease caused by a virus, for example Viral haemorrhagic fever or Viral 
hepatitis. It is also listed as a type of Meningitis within brackets, along with several other 
types of Meningitis, which are recognised medical illnesses in their own right. So I dont 
agree that the use of the word viral means that all viruses would be covered.
And if viral were interpreted to encompass all illnesses caused by a virus then this would 
cover a large number of illnesses, including those already set out on the list and so would 
render the list Lloyds has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the 
specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Lloyds has. 
 
So overall, I think the word viral is used in the context of specific types of diseases listed. I 
dont think this is sufficient for me to determine that COVID-19 falls within the term viral in 
the policy and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to treat 
the policy as if it did. 
Mr O has said that it also thinks his claim would be covered under the defective sanitation 
wording as he says if its sanitation were effective, there would be no need for its premises to 
be closed. However V closed as the result of nationwide Government restrictions on most 
types of businesses  and those restrictions were put in place regardless of the individual 
businesses sanitation at their premises as a result of COVID-19, so I dont think I can fairly 
say that V closed as a result of defective sanitation.There are other clauses in the policy which look like they could provide cover including 
denial of access. However, that term requires there to be physical damage to property in 
order for the policy to respond to a claim. And as I dont think COVID-19 caused physical 
damage to property, I dont think this term provides cover in these circumstances.
Mr O has also raised concerns about Lloyds handling of the claim. Lloyds let V know that its 
claim wouldnt be covered in March 2020 and Mr O disagreed with its outcome. However, 
Lloyds has acknowledged that it mistakenly closed the claim rather than respond and 
address Vs concerns. 
Lloyds has maintained that the claim should be declined throughout but has agreed that 
there was some inconvenience caused by its actions and offered £50 compensation for its 
failure to address Vs concerns in response to the declinature of the claim sooner. I have 
considered this and as the claim was always declined, I dont think Lloyds actions have 
caused any harm to Vs claim. However, I agree its actions did cause some inconvenience 
as V had to chase for a reply to its correspondence and I think the £50 it has offered to 
reflect that inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr O. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in declining Vs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman