DRN-3066286
The complaint
Mr R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) has 
unfairly declined a claim he made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mr R held a pet insurance policy with Red Sands for his pet cat that Ill refer to as N.
The policys start date was in August 2020.
Ns veterinary medical history shows prior to taking the policy N was seen on several 
occasions and diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Around December 2020 N was vomiting and unable to keep solids or liquids in her 
system. Mr Rs vet conducted an investigation to establish whether N was suffering 
from any alternative conditions. This led to confirmation of Ns ongoing IBD. Mr R 
made a claim to Red Sands, asking it to cover the costs of this investigation.
Red Sands said the policy excluded claims or costs related to existing conditions. 
And, as the investigation claimed for related to pre-existing gastrointestinal issues 
that N had since 2016, it declined the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He said Red Sands had fairly 
declined the claim as the investigation was undertaken to rule out other potential 
illnesses, but still stemmed from N having that already established illness.
Mr R disagreed. He said an investigation should be considered as very different to 
treatment and not related to any pre-existing condition. And the investigation was to 
look for any new pathology, unrelated to any previous condition. Mr R had also been 
given assurances by his vet that the costs would be covered by his insurer. Mr R also 
felt by grouping medical conditions into categories as it had (such as digestive 
system), it allowed itself a simple way to decline claims.
The investigator looked again but these points didnt change his mind. He said the 
use of umbrella terms such as digestive system was part of their underwriting 
criteria and a commercial decision made by insurers which he couldnt change.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This case centres around Red Sands use of an exclusion for existing conditions. Under a 
heading of Whats not covered it says:
Pre-existing conditions
Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any injury or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or where [N] showed observable changes to her 
normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour that could be 
observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within 14 days of your policy's start 
date.
Red Sands has declined the claim as it says the investigation in question related to Ns 
existing medical condition. So, I have to consider whether Red Sands has acted fairly when 
declining to pay the costs for the investigation.
Theres no dispute that N suffered from a digestive system related condition  IBD  prior to 
the inception of the policy. And Mr Rs vet has said:
The investigation that was carried out for [Mr R] concluded in a confirmation of a formal 
diagnosis of Inflammatory bowel syndrome which is an ongoing condition for [N].
On this basis, I think its fair for Red Sands to link the investigation and the existing 
condition, as seemingly the IBD was the cause of the presenting symptoms.
Mr R argues that the investigation itself was to establish any other conditions  and his vet 
has supported this view. While this may be the case, Im satisfied the costs Mr R has sought 
to claim for relate to, or result from, an illness existing before the policys start date. Meaning 
the claim is excluded in line with the policy terms. 
I understand Mr R feels strongly that the vets view the claim should be paid should be 
followed. But this isnt the vets decision to make, and Im satisfied Red Sands has taken the 
vets comments on board when reaching its own decision. Mr R has also argued there 
should be a distinction between investigation and treatment within the policy. But the 
exclusion relied on by Red Sands makes no such distinction. So, these comments from Mr R 
and his vet havent changed my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman