DRN-4337844
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that, because of delays by Barclays Bank UK Plc in sending a 
redemption statement to their solicitors, they suffered financial loss, distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B say that their new mortgage should have completed on 30 April 2022, but in 
fact as a result of Barclays errors, did not complete until 14 June 2022, with their Barclays 
mortgage being redeemed on 16 June 2022. Mr and Mrs B say that, as a result of this delay, 
they were charged interest on their Barclays mortgage of £1,038.84.
Mr B has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Barclays that had reached the end of its term. They 
decided to arrange a lifetime equity release mortgage with another lender in order to repay 
their Barclays mortgage. A mortgage offer was issued on 27 April 2022. The mortgage was 
not redeemed until 14 June 2022.
It is this delay that forms the crux of the complaint. Mr B says that the delay in completing is 
entirely the responsibility of Barclays. The bank says that it faxed the redemption statement 
to the solicitors several times, and also sent the redemption statement in the post to 
Mr and Mrs B.
Mr B says that the solicitors didnt receive the faxes, and that Barclays has acknowledged 
that it had problems with its fax machine (which Barclays doesnt accept). Mr B also says 
that the solicitors needed the redemption statement sent directly to them, and couldnt act on 
figures I give them as they are not contractually binding and not legally in line with the 
redemption due process.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays. The bank didnt accept that it had failed to provide 
redemption statements, but did pay compensation of £100 for a data breach when another 
customers account was mentioned during a call.
Dissatisfied with the banks response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. Initially she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld, but later revised this. 
In a second opinion, the investigator was satisfied that the redemption statement hadnt 
been received until 9 June 2022. She thought Barclays should pay £200 compensation, and 
reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the interest charged on the mortgage from 1 May 2022 to 
8 June 2022 (when the solicitors received the statement).
Barclays didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. The bank said that it had confirmed to the solicitors multiple times that the 
redemption statement had been faxed, but was never told that the faxes hadnt come 
through. The bank also said that there had been no influx of complaints about faxes not 
having been received during this period.
On 21 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings:
Overall, Im not persuaded by the evidence that there was a prolonged period of 
several weeks where Barclays faxes in relation to this one specific mortgage account 
werent being properly sent due to a problem with its fax service. I think that if there 
had been a systems issue with Barclays fax service, it would not have affected only 
Mr and Mrs Bs account.
Whilst there might have been an issue with Barclays fax service, it is just as  likely 
that the problem lay with the solicitors own fax machine, if, for example, it was not 
receiving faxes that Barclays was confirming had been sent. In the circumstances, 
the evidence isnt sufficiently conclusive to enable me to find that Barclays is at fault 
in respect of faxes sent and not received.
However, even if there had been an issue with the faxes, Im not persuaded by 
Mr Bs argument that redemption statements sent to him and Mrs B in the post could 
not have been provided to his solicitors. I agree with Mr B that the solicitors required 
an accurate figure in order to be able to redeem the mortgage. I think if Mr B had 
been given a redemption figure over the phone, it wouldnt have been reasonable for 
the solicitors to rely on that. But a redemption statement sent on Barclays headed 
paper giving the redemption figure and the daily rate, along with all the information 
necessary to redeem the mortgage would, in my opinion, have been sufficient to 
enable the solicitors to have redeemed the mortgage much sooner  if only 
Mr and Mrs B had provided those statements to them.
I am therefore not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B did enough to mitigate their position; 
I think it would have been reasonable for them to have provided the redemption 
statements they were sent by Barclays  particularly once they had been told by their 
solicitors that faxes sent by Barclays hadnt been received.
Im also not persuaded that any delay in redemption of the mortgage has resulted in 
financial loss. Mr and Mrs B were taking out a lifetime equity release mortgage, 
borrowing just under £409,000 at an interest rate of 4.90%. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  shown on the last annual statement at a rate of 1.98%  
expired in March 2022. I dont know if the mortgage moved onto Barclays follow-on 
rate when the mortgage expired or if it stayed on that 1.98% interest rate. The follow-
on rate would have been Bank of England Base Rate plus 3.49%. Therefore for the 
relevant period, if the mortgage had gone onto the follow-on rate, interest would have 
been charged at a rate between 4.24% and 4.49% (as base rate went up from 0.75% 
to 1.00% on 5 May 2022). Either way, whether the mortgage had reverted to follow-on rate or stayed on the 
account rate of 1.98%, the interest Barclays charged was less than the interest 
Mr and Mrs B would have incurred on their lifetime mortgage at 4.98% over the same 
period if theyd completed the mortgage on 30 April 2022. Given this, Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs B have suffered any actual financial loss, as they were 
charged less, not more, interest by Barclays than theyd have been charged by their 
new lender.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded the complaint should be upheld. Even if 
there had been errors with Barclays fax (and as I said above, the evidence on this is 
not sufficiently persuasive to enable me to conclude the fault is that of the bank), Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs B could have taken steps to mitigate their position by 
providing the solicitors with the redemption statements theyd had from the bank. 
Furthermore, even if there had been a bank error (and, I reiterate, the evidence is 
inconclusive on this), I dont think theres been any financial loss.
I note Barclays paid compensation of £100 for an error in discussing another 
customers account. I think this is fair and Im not intending to order the bank to do 
anything further.
Barclays had nothing further to add. Mr B reiterated the points hes already made about the 
redemption. Mr B also says that Barclays actions were financially punitive on him and that 
the bank sent him a letter about being in breach of the mortgage agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file from the outset, reconsidered my provisional decision and considered 
the points Mr B has made. Having done so, I am not minded to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B have made no further arguments about the faxes, and so I remain of the 
opinion that there is insufficient evidence for me to conclude that Barclays fax service failed 
repeatedly just for this one firm of solicitors. As I said above, Barclays wasnt able to identify 
any systems issues that would have arisen with faxes sent to other parties, if there had been 
a failure of the banks fax service.
Ive noted what Mr B has said about the redemption statement. But I am satisfied it would 
have been entirely possible for Mr Bs solicitors to have calculated and submitted the 
redemption funds if Mr B had provided his solicitors with the statements hed been sent. The 
figures had come from the lender. The redemption statements Mr and Mrs B had received 
would  if theyd been given them  have allowed the solicitors to send the correct amount 
for the day they wanted to complete.
So given Mr and Mrs B had the opportunity to mitigate their position, I am not persuaded that 
it was reasonable for them not to pass the redemption statements theyd received onto their 
solicitors in order that they could calculate the redemption sum. It would have been a simple 
enough matter for the solicitors to have confirmed by telephone with Barclays the amount 
they were remitting for the redemption. I appreciate Mr B will disagree with me on this point, 
but Im satisfied redemption could have taken place much sooner if Mr B had provided his 
solicitors with the redemption statement hed been sent.Mr B says the mortgage should have completed on 30 April 2022. However, that was a 
Saturday, the following Monday was a Bank Holiday and so the next working day would 
have been Tuesday, 3 May 2022, which is the earliest the mortgage could have completed, 
if hed provided the solicitors with the redemption statement so they could have calculated 
the amount due to Barclays.
The mortgage didnt complete until 14 June 2022, which is 43 days later. Mr B says that 
during this period he and Mrs B were charged a daily rate of interest by Barclays of £23.61 
on the redemption amount of just under £432,000. Over the 43-day period this amounts to 
£1,015.23.
Mr and Mrs Bs new mortgage was for £408,899 at a fixed interest rate of 4.90%. If theyd 
completed on their new mortgage on 3 May 2022, over the same 43-day period, theyd have 
been charged interest at a daily rate of £54.89, and would have been charged £2,360.41 
(408,899 x 4.90%  365 x 43 = 2,360.41).
In addition, if Barclays had applied its follow-on rate, this, too, was lower than the 4.90% rate 
on the new mortgage (as detailed above). Therefore, on the facts, Mr and Mrs B have not 
suffered any financial loss or detriment or lost out on any interest benefit on their new 
mortgage as a result of completion taking place on 14 June 2022 rather than 3 May 2022. 
I think the £100 compensation Barclays has already paid for discussing another customers 
account with Mr and Mrs B is fair and reasonable. Because Im not upholding the complaint 
about the redemption statements, I am not ordering Barclays to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman