DRN-3636510
The complaint
Mr V complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr V is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2018, Mr V was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel and battery storage system (the system) to be installed at 
his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr V decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed. 
In August 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Vs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr V to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The system would pay for itself or be self-funding. 
The CMC says that the system could only be economic to purchase if the savings and 
income generated outweighed the costs over the long-term. Mr V paid off the loan early  in 
May 2019. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr V or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr V and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr V provided his comments, including that:
oHe was taken through the quotation by the salesperson.
oHe understood there would be a monthly instalment of around £122 and the 
total earning from the solar itself will be around £900 which will cover most of 
the cost of the loan. 
oHe read the contract and signed it after asking whether the loan cost would 
be covered by the yearly earnings and was told it would not until after five or 
six months.
oHe queried the figures on the quote and was told it will definitely earn some 
money and reduce energy bills which he doesnt think has happened.
The CMC said that P was subject to disciplinary investigation by the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code, of which it was a member until 31 January 2017.
The CMC referred to a court case where a solar panel system was found to be 
misrepresented  the court concluding that the salesperson persuaded the customer 
to have little regard to the quote, which showed the first year benefits were less than 
the loan repayments and assured them that it would be self-funding over the ten-year 
term of the loan. 
The CMC said that Mr V wasnt taken through the quote and wasnt given a copy of it 
until after agreeing to the purchase. The quote largely compares the benefits to the 
basic cost of the system rather than the cost including the loan interest.  
The CMC provided examples of what it says are Ps training materials which it says 
describe the system as self-funding.
The system hasnt generated the benefits shown in the quote. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr V paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr V could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr V and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr V says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Vs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Vs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr V was told that the cost of the system was £9,975.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,975.00. The monthly payment was £105.82. The total 
amount of credit is £9,975.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£19,047.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Vs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,975.00, it would cost 
Mr V more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr V has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the Mr Vs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely 
to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr V could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr V could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £235.12, which results in an average monthly income of £19.59. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £105.82. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr V could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £244.81 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr V (battery, voltage optimiser and heating control) the combined income 
and savings in year one is shown as £963.70. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because this 
is the length of the loan that Mr V entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.51. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £105.51, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr V could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr V wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Vs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr V that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr V was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr V could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr V that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr V. I have looked at Mr Vs meter reading provided and it seems 
that his system may be underperforming compared to the generation figure quoted on the 
MCS certificate. This will have contributed to the benefits being less than shown on the 
quote. However, this issue wasnt raised as part of the initial section 75 claim or during the 
complaint, so I cannot comment on this further.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P generally used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data for approximately ten years prior to 
the sale to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly 
increases between the sale and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by 
P at the point of sale and I think this explains why Mr V hasnt been receiving the financial 
returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have 
been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy 
generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were generally based on the information 
available from the ONS covering approximately ten years prior to the sale. And based on 
this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the 
potential financial income Mr V couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I 
can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, 
Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the 
time Mr V entered into the contract.
The CMCs and Mr Vs additional comments
Mr V has confirmed that he was taken through the quotation by the salesperson. This 
contradicts the CMCs comments that he wasnt and didnt receive a copy until after hed 
agreed to the purchase. My understanding is that Ps process involved the quote being 
populated during the sales meeting and this being discussed (the quote being shown to the 
customer on a laptop or tablet) before the customer signs it.
Mr V has confirmed he understood the benefits would not immediately cover the loan 
repayments. He says he was told it would do so after five or six months. However, Im not 
persuaded that is likely to have happened, given the quote shows the benefits wouldnt 
cover the loan repayments on an annual basis until year six and Mr V also said he was taken 
through the quote. So, I think it is unlikely he wouldve been shown this information (which I 
think was clear) while being told something different. 
I understand that P was subject to disciplinary investigation by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code, although it ceased to be a member prior to Mr V purchasing the system. 
Ive taken the disciplinary proceedings into account. But I find the evidence specific to Mr Vs 
sale to be more relevant and persuasive in making my decision. 
The CMC referred to a court case where a solar panel system was found to be 
misrepresented. However, this involved a different supplier and a different lender. The quote 
in that case only showed the benefits in the first year. The salesperson wouldve had the opportunity to explain the benefits after that time without having to refer to anything written 
that could confirm or contradict what was said. In Mr Vs case the quote showed the benefits 
on an annual basis throughout the expected lifetime of the system, including that the benefits 
would cover the annual cost of the loan from year six and the total cost of the loan around 
year 14. So, the salesperson didnt have similar leeway to explain the benefits as in the court 
case the CMC has referred to.
The CMC says the quote largely compares the benefits to the basic cost of the system rather 
than the cost including the loan interest. However, the repayments table directly compares 
the annual cost of the loan with the annual benefits of the system and makes clear it will not 
cover the annual cost until year six. Elsewhere it describes payback in terms of the basic 
cost of the system only but, given Mr V says he was taken through the quote and that he 
asked questions, I think its likely that he wouldve received an explanation of this and that he 
ought reasonably to have understood the difference. 
The CMC provided examples of what it says were Ps training materials, which it says 
describe the system as self-funding. I find the evidence from the time of sale to be more 
relevant and persuasive. Not least because it is unclear what the documents are or whether 
these were in use at the time of Mr Vs sale. For example, one of the documents refers to a 
type of loan that P stopped providing many years before Mr Vs sale. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr V to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman