DRN-4170434
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that a policy he purchased from Kent and Sussex Financial Group Ltd, 
trading as Tree Surgeon & Forestry Insurance Services (KSF), was missold. Hes also 
unhappy with the way in which a claim he made on the policy was handled by KSF. 
Mr R is assisted in his complaint by a representative, Mr S, on his behalf.
What happened
Mr R took out insurance to cover his business from KSF which he renewed each year. The 
sale of the policy in issue in this complaint was the 2021 renewal. The policy was sold on an 
advised basis and information was sent to Mr R to consider by email. 
The renewal documents contained references to minimum security requirements for 
buildings, yards, compounds, vehicles or whilst tools or plant was left unattended /overnight. 
Mr R took out the new policy based on these terms.
During the policy year, Mr Rs property was broken into and items were stolen. Mr R made a 
claim on the policy, which was declined because the minimum security requirements set out 
had not been put into place. 
Mr R says it wasnt made clear to him by KSF that this was necessary, that KSF should have 
done more to draw this to his attention to these requirements and that they didnt assist him 
with making the claim to the insurer as they should have.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought KSF had made the minimum security requirements clear to him and that they 
werent obliged to make the claim to the insurer on his behalf. Mr R doesnt agree, so the 
matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint, for the same reasons reached by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy was renewed by email on an advised basis. That means KSF needed to ensure it 
was suitable for Mr Rs needs and circumstances as well as provide him with enough 
information to decide whether to take it out. So Ive thought about whether the policy was 
suitable for Mr R given the policy term in issue and whether he was provided with enough 
information to allow him to decide whether to take it out. 
When considering the issue of suitability, we usually take into account things like the extent 
of cover needed when thinking about a policyholders needs and circumstances. Theres 
nothing in this complaint to suggest that the extent of cover Mr R was sold was unsuitable. 
Rather the issue hes raised is that it wasnt made clear to him that an insurer wouldnt cover 
a claim for stolen items if he didnt put the minimum security measures into place. As such 
Ive considered whether the information KSF gave him about this was enough to allow him to 
decide whether to take out the cover.
The renewal email sent to Mr R said:
In order to go ahead, please confirm.
2.  If you are taking out Own or Hired in Tool/Plant Cover (which will be shown in the 
Statement of Fact and Quotation including Endorsements), you have read and understand 
the following points that are listed in the policy wording attached.
 The Contract Works Section including any new minimum security requirements for 
buildings, yards, compounds, vehicles or whilst tool or plant is left unattended/ovemight. If 
you are a previous customer, you should be aware these have changed recently.
 The new Contractors Plant Security Conditions precedent. If you are a previous customer, 
you should be aware these have changed recently.
It also went on to say in bold letters and in larger font that if Mr R didnt understand or 
couldnt find any of this information he shouldnt go ahead with the policy.
The policy terms themselves set out the security requirements which said that plant must be 
kept in a secure unit within a compound or yard complying with minimum compound and 
yard security. Minimum compound and yard security is defined as:
(a) The compound or yard has perimeter fencing or walls and gates
(i) constructed of either brick stone or metal; and
(ii)  at least six (6) feet (1.8288 metres) high.
(b) Gates to any compound or yard are secured by
(i) a hook bolt mortice deadlock; or
(ii) a closed shackle padlock with minimum shackle thickness of 10mm together 
with a heavy duty bar/clasp. 
My understanding is that Mr Rs claim for stolen items didnt comply with this. 
Ive considered all the very detailed submissions made particularly by Mr R and Mr S on his 
behalf, but I dont think I can say that KSF didnt do enough to highlight the minimum security 
requirements to him or bring them to his attention. 
There was clear reference to these within the renewal email. Whilst the reference didnt set 
out the exact detail of what was required, it did do enough to draw attention to the term and 
direct Mr R to read and understand the policy wording in relation to it. The condition itself 
wasnt unusual for policies of this nature but it was arguably significant, so Im pleased to 
see that attention was drawn to it. The renewal email also went on to say that Mr R shouldnt 
take out the insurance if he hasnt done, so it gave him the opportunity to refer back to KSF if 
he didnt understand anything. Mr R took out the policy on that basis and in taking out the 
cover he also replied saying hed read the email and attachments and that he agreed with it 
all. I realise that his confirmation was based on copying and pasting from part of KSFs email 
which directed him to if he wanted to proceed, but the fact that he did so confirms he agreed 
to the policy on the terms highlighted within the renewal email. On that basis I dont think I 
can reasonably expect KSF to have done anything more in the circumstances.
Various submissions have been made by and on behalf of Mr R about how KSF could have 
made the policy condition clearer. These include asking for photographs of the security measures Mr R had in place to check they met requirements, checking specifically whether 
Mr R had understood the minimum security requirements, making the text in relation to this 
issue on the renewal quotation more prominent and making it clear if these werent met that 
cover could be refused. Ive considered all of this, but I dont think KSF needed to more than 
it already did to draw the relevant term to Mr Rs attention. It was then up to Mr R to satisfy 
himself as a policyholder that hed read and complied with the requirement in order to make 
a successful claim on the policy. So, I dont think KSF are at fault because he didnt.
Ive also thought about what Mr R has said about the lack of assistance he feels he received 
from KSF when making the claim to his insurer. KSF arent his insurer- they are the brokers 
of his policy. So, they arent obliged to make a claim on his behalf. In this case, it looks like 
KSF suggested it would be better if Mr R made the claim to his insurer directly to save time 
and cut out any unnecessary involvement by them. KSFs role wasnt to claims handle on Mr 
Rs behalf so I think the action they took was reasonable. I also dont agree that KSF should 
have used their sway as a professional entity to assist Mr R in his claim generally. It was Mr 
Rs claim to make, based on his individual circumstances so it was down to him to make it. 
Mr R has made various submissions about KSF doing more to help him both when selling 
the policy and to help him with his claim to the insurer because he was a vulnerable 
customer. By this he means he was a one-person commercial entity, that he didnt have 
access to a printer, that he had financial pressure, stress, and a health concern. Im not 
unsympathetic to Mr R about his circumstances and Im sorry to hear about them. But for the 
reasons Ive mentioned above, I think KSF did what Id expect them to do, even in light of Mr 
Rs personal circumstances. And I wouldnt expect them to have done anything else. In 
addition, I dont think that if Mr R had had access to a printer, he would have done anything 
differently. As things stood the covering email sent with the renewal letter made clear that he 
needed to ensure he understood the minimum security requirements and Mr R confirmed 
hed read the email and attachments and that he agreed with it all. 
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy that KSF havent retained any call recordings of conversations 
with him, but I havent based my findings on call notes or any suggestions of what might 
have been said during any calls that are likely to have taken place. So, the absence of those 
recordings makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr S has made various submissions about how KSF might have handled customer 
vulnerabilities more widely. I cant comment on KSFs culture or how they handle customer 
vulnerabilities more generally. I can only look at Mr Rs complaint about the missale of the 
policy and the way in which KSF handled the claim hed made as these are the only matters 
that fall within my remit.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Kent and Sussex 
Financial Group Ltd trading as Tree Surgeon & Forestry Insurance Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman