DRN-3126233
The complaint
Mr B complains that Unum Ltd unfairly declined his group income protection claim.
What happened
The following is only a brief summary of the background to this complaint.
Mr B has access to a group income protection scheme through his employer. The policy is 
underwritten by Unum, and is intended to provide a regular benefit in the event of a member 
becoming incapacitated and unable to work after a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In November 2020 Mr B became absent from work. He said complex post-traumatic stress 
disorder (cPTSD) and depression and anxiety were preventing him working. 
Following the policys deferred period, an income protection claim was made for Mr B in 
May 2021, but Unum said there wasnt sufficient medical evidence to demonstrate that his ill 
health meant hed been unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his 
occupation. So, it concluded the policys definition of incapacity hadnt been satisfied and 
declined the claim. Mr B complained, but Unum maintained its decision. 
Our investigator didnt think Unum had declined the claim reasonably. They thought the 
available medical evidence showed that Mr B had been diagnosed with an illness, and that 
illness had prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of is role. So 
they recommended it accepted the claim and backdated benefit due from the end of the 
deferred period onwards with added simple interest. 
Our investigator also thought that Unums actions had impacted Mr B negatively and 
recommended it also paid £300 compensation to recognise that.
Mr B accepted our investigators recommendations, but Unum did not. It said the medical 
evidence had not demonstrated an inability to perform the material and substantial duties of 
Mr Bs occupation, and so, it asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, Unum should consider claims both promptly 
and fairly, and it should not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of this group income protection policy set out that a member will 
be considered incapacitated if Unum is satisfied they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties their insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation
The terms and conditions also explain that material and substantial duties are considered to 
be those that are normally required for the performance of the members insured occupation, 
and cannot be reasonably omitted or modified. 
Its clear that both sides feel strongly about what has happened in this complaint. While I 
realise that Unum will be disappointed by this, for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator before me I am going to be upholding Mr Bs complaint and will now explain 
why.
The medical evidence 
Looking at the available medical evidence I can see that Mr Bs GP record shows that he 
first consulted his GP about his mental health on 16 November 2020. The entry relating to 
this consultation says Mr B had reported low mood which had been increasing over the last 
four months. It says questionnaires for both anxiety and depression were completed with 
scores of 18/24 and 15/21 achieved respectively, and that Mr B was falling into a pit of 
despair. The same entry confirms that Mr B was signed off work for two weeks and provided 
with details about how to access counselling. He was also given the details of a mental 
health charity and another consultation was arranged for two weeks time.
A psychological therapist from a mental health intermediate care team (MHICT) wrote a 
letter on 24 November 2021 to confirm that Mr B had an undergone an initial assessment 
with them. Mr Bs current symptoms were agreed as being consistent with cPTSD and he 
was referred for high intensity psychological therapy.
Mr B consulted with his GP again on 30 November 2020. The notes from this consultation 
correspond with the above and advise that Mr B had been in touch with his local NHS 
psychological therapies service and diagnosed with cPTSD. They set out that Mr B was due 
to start cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in two weeks, but was still feeling very low, was 
hugely exhausted by conversations, and was feeling completely mentally unable to function 
correctly. 
Mr B was once again signed off work, but this time for four weeks. He was prescribed an 
anti-depressant, and another consultation was arranged for five weeks time on the basis 
that he should have started CBT by then. 
Prior to that time elapsing, I note that Mr B contacted his GP again on 24 December 2020. 
The entry from the time sets out that Mr B was really struggling with his mental health. The 
anti-depressants were noted as having made more of a difference to his anxiety but not his 
depression, and he was reported as feeling very debilitated over the past five days. 
Comments were also made regarding Mr B being unable to get out of bed for 18 hours the 
day before the consultation, being due to be go back to work in a couple of weeks, and 
questioning the point of everything/him being around. 
Mr Bs GP increased his medication as a result of that encounter and arranged a follow-up 
with him for 10 days time. The GP also noted that an alternative anti-depressant may be 
considered if Mr Bs symptoms persisted, and advised him about who to contact in an 
emergency situation outside of hours.  
The same records further show that Mr B consulted his GP again on 4 January 2021. His 
anxiety was noted as having improved on that occasion, but his depression was recorded as 
being consistent and he was cited as suffering from a foggy head and low appetite too. The 
GP agreed to keep Mr Bs medication at the same dosage, but another consultation was 
arranged for three weeks time and Mr B was signed off work for another six.  On 25 January 2021 Mr B had another consultation with his GP. He was noted as not having 
been great over the past few weeks, sleeping badly, feeling worthless, and having 
despairing thoughts and decreased concentration. Mr Bs medication was subsequently 
increased. He was signed off work for a further two months, and a review was scheduled for 
a months time. 
Mr B had another consultation with his GP on 24 February 2021. This time he was noted as 
having poor sleep, feeling the weight of depression, and experiencing thoughts of not 
wanting to be there. Mr Bs CBT was reported to have started that day, his medication was 
increased to its maximum dosage, and a further consultation in four weeks was arranged. 
On 24 March 2021 a high intensity therapist wrote a letter which confirmed that a treatment 
plan had been agreed for Mr B. The therapist confirmed that Mr B had undergone four CBT 
sessions thus far and had recently completed both a PHQ9 and GAD7, with his results 
indicating severe symptoms of depression and moderate symptoms of anxiety. The therapist 
advised that another four sessions had been agreed, and another review would take place at 
that point.
Following on from this, a further consultation took place with Mr Bs GP on 29 March 2021 
where his mental health was noted as being somewhat improved and the CBT was reported 
as having had a positive effect. Mr B was signed off work once again however, for another 
two months. Reference to Mr Bs mental health was made in the GP record again on 19 April 
2021, but this was brief and only noted an ICT appointment that was due the following day.
On 8 April 2021 an occupation health physician produced a report which set out that Mr B 
remained unfit for work. The physician acknowledged it was difficult to predict a recovery 
timescale, but said they anticipated a return to work to likely be a minimum of two to three 
months away depending on Mr Bs response to treatment. 
The same physician also said, In general, he is likely to benefit as far as possible from 
resuming his usual work duties, including face to face interactions with other people, rather 
than working from home entirely, depending of course on the COVID situation.
A consultant occupation physician went on to write another occupational health report on 
29 July 2021. This commented on Mr Bs reported symptoms and set out that in the 
consultants opinion Mr B remained unfit for work. The did however note that, I think a 
return to work in the next 3 months seems unlikely, but if he is able to access treatment in a 
reasonable timescale a return within the next 6 months seems feasible.
An MHICT mental health nurse also wrote a letter on 14 September 2021 which noted that 
Mr B was currently struggling with daily panic attacks, flashbacks and depressive symptoms. 
They too, felt that Mr B was not currently fit for work. 
The declined claim
Unum have argued that the available evidence in this case does not demonstrate that Mr B 
was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation. 
I wont recite Mr Bs job description here because both parties aware of its content, but some 
of the things listed as required of Mr B are owning and proactively develop commercially 
successful and productive relationships; being a confident and influential communicator at all 
levels; carrying out quality control checks; coaching and developing team members; 
designing and delivering training; and, networking both internally and externally.  
I appreciate Unums position and would like to reassure it that this case was finely balanced, but given everything available Im not persuaded I can fairly agree that the medical evidence 
doesnt suggest an inability to perform the material and substantial duties of Mr Bs 
occupation.
Collectively, I think it shows that Mr B was consistently signed of work by his doctor, his 
medication was continually increased, and he was referred on for additional support and 
treatment. I think it shows that Mr B began therapy where he was further considered as unfit 
for work and that none of the medical professionals involved in Mr Bs care considered him 
fit for to work. And I also note that some of Mr Bs symptoms, thoughts and feelings were 
reported as being in a pit of despair; finding conversations hugely exhausting; crying; being 
unable to function correctly; being unable to get out of bed; having a foggy head; and 
experiencing despairing thoughts, decreased concentration and a fear of confrontation. 
I am aware that there are some inconsistencies within the information Mr B reported to his 
medical professionals and Unum, but these must be considered in the round and alongside 
the wider medical evidence. Again, I would like to reassure Unum that I genuinely appreciate 
its position, but on balance, given what was required of Mr B at work Im of the opinion that 
the medical evidence suggests he was unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of his occupation. So, I cannot fairly conclude that Unum declined this claim reasonably. 
Having said that, I am aware that some of the more recent evidence appears to suggest that 
Mr B will be expected to be able to return to work in the not too distant future, and so I think 
it would be reasonable for Unum to continue to review the claim in view of this. 
The compensation
Our investigator has already drawn attention to the impact that Mr B has said the declined 
claim had on him  namely that he had to rely on his father-in-law for financial support and 
his symptoms worsened at times because he was not in a position to solely focus on his 
recovery.
I accept that having to rely on a family member for financial support is likely to have caused 
Mr B some level of personal embarrassment and or guilt, and I am aware that he 
experienced feelings of ongoing uncertainty surrounding this too. For example, more than 
one reference is made to Mr B being unsure if he would have the funds to pay his bills, and 
he explained that given the amount of time hed been without an income he was having to 
consider moving in with his father-in-law. 
I am also aware that the evidence in this complaint further refers to the declined claim taking 
away from Mr Bs ability to solely focus on his recovery at times, and thus having a negative 
impact on his health. So I too agree that Unums actions impacted Mr B and compensation is 
warranted here. 
Compensation is not designed to be a punitive measure. It is designed to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business mistake has had on someone. Given the 
personal embarrassment, level of uncertainly and, at times, the inability to solely focus on his 
recovery, I think the £300 recommended by our investigator represents a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact Unums actions had on Mr B. 
 Putting things right
To put things right Unum should:
Accept the claim and pay benefit in accordance with the policys remaining terms and 
conditions on the basis that the deferred period was successfully completed. Add 8% simple interest to any backdated payments from the date each payment was due to 
the date of settlement. 
Pay £300 compensation 
Mr B should be aware that benefit is likely to be paid directly to his employer as it is they who 
are the policy holder. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Unum Ltd should put things right in the way I 
have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman