DRN-2847053
The complaint
Miss R says she bought shares through the TD Direct Investing (TD) platform in 2012; she 
did not monitor them thereafter due to personal reasons and due to a poor experience in 
another share-dealing account (which discouraged her from share-dealing at the time); she 
sought to resume share-dealing last year, for her Self-Invested Personal Pension; she tried 
to open an account with Interactive Investor Services Limited (trading as Interactive Investor 
(II)) in June 2020 and learnt that it already had an account for her  her TD account, which 
passed to II when II took over TD; she is unhappy that her account and, especially, her 
personal data was transferred to and used by II without her consent; and she is unhappy 
about fees applied by II to her account which depleted over £200 in cash within it.
II says, in the main, it did not need Miss Rs consent to take over TD (and the accounts 
within TD); it sent her notices (in September, October, November and December 2017) at 
the time of the takeover, about the transfer, its terms and its fees; thereafter, it was entitled 
to administer the account and to apply its fees.  
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded as follows:
The complaint should not be upheld.
Miss Rs concerns about the transfer and use of her personal data should be directed 
at the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), as such matters are beyond this 
services remit.
The terms Miss R agreed for her TD account entitled TD to assign her account, so its 
assignment of the account to II was within its right. The terms also provided for the 
deduction of fees from cash in the account  and there is account activity evidence 
showing that such fees were deducted from the account. Similar terms existed under 
II and information about this was within the notices it sent her.
He verified the email address used in the notices sent by II to Miss R and he is 
satisfied that II used the correct email address  the same email address that Miss R 
has used in the referral of her complaint to this service.
The notices gave information about new terms and charges that would apply to the 
account and advised that they would apply automatically unless she responded to 
close or transfer the account; because Miss R did not respond, II applied the new 
terms and charges to her account from 11 December 2017.
After II took over the account it applied fees related changes in the form of a new 
quarterly management fee, it amended this on 1 June 2019 to apply on a monthly 
basis and it sent notice of this to Miss R.
Miss R disagreed with this outcome and maintained that the investigators findings could not 
be justified in the absence of an active acceptance, by her, of the account transfer to II and 
of IIs terms and charges  as opposed to a passive acceptance of the transfer, terms and 
charges. The investigator disagreed. He retained his view that the onus was on Miss R to 
respond to the notices she was sent and to declare her instructions on the account, and that 
because that did not happen II was entitled to take over the account and to apply the terms 
and charges it had given prior notice of. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I echo the investigators comment on Miss Rs concerns about her personal data. Her 
concerns should be directed at the ICO because it has the remit and authority to address 
matters in which breach and/or misuse of personal data is alleged. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service does not have such remit and authority.
I have considered the evidence made available to this service and I have verified the 
findings of fact made by the investigator. Indeed: 
Section 22 of TDs terms of service allowed TD to assign, absolutely, its rights, 
benefits and/or obligations  essentially, its business  to another party; and whilst 
written notice to the account holder(s) was required under this section, no 
requirement for consent from the account holder(s) was provided for. It is noteworthy 
that IIs terms of service also has a section 22 which appears to be worded in the 
same fashion as section 22 of TDs terms of service.
Section 11 of TDs terms of service allowed TD to deduct fees/charges directly from 
an account holders account. The same observation noted above applies to this 
section  IIs terms of service also has a section 11 that appears to be worded in the 
same fashion as section 11 of TDs terms of service. As such II was also 
contractually entitled to deduct fees/charges directly from an account.
II explains that its records have not retained the exact copies of the notices sent to Miss R, 
however it has shared evidence of its records (on the notices sent) in this respect and 
neutral copies of the notices that were sent out to account holders in 2017. In addition, it has 
confirmed the email address it used for the notices sent to Miss R at the time. As the 
investigator said, it is the same email address she has used in her complaint to this service.
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that notice about II taking over TD in 2017 was sent to 
Miss R at the correct email address for her at the time. I observe that she does not appear to 
dispute that such notice was sent in the course of the transfer, but she has said:
Whilst I am not disputing the fact they sent the email, I am disputing the fact they never 
heard back from me to confirm I had received the email and were therefore operating the 
account for over a year i think without actually in effect ever communicating with me  when 
new companies send you an email, we get so many, they can often either go into junk or be 
automatically deleted. I do not think it is fair to put the onus me to have been aware of 
Interactive Investor Services taking over the account when they didnt actually ever speak to 
me in person or get any confirmation back from me to confirm I had received their 
communication.
The platform service contract that Miss R had with TD would have been binding upon them 
(both) on an exclusive basis. For this reason, I understand Miss Rs objection to the 
introduction, into the relationship, of a third party that she neither invited nor agreed to. 
However, transfers of clients and their accounts  initiated by, and between, firms  are not 
uncommon in the industry. In the course of such transfers the rights and responsibilities in 
the original service contract need to be addressed actively. This  that is, active participation 
in the transfer  is what Miss R appears to have expected with regards to her position in the 
matter, but such activity would not have extended to her position. The transfer was between TD and II. The former was transferring its business to the latter. 
Both firms would have had to take active steps to progress and conclude the transfer. I do 
not need to delve into what happened in this respect, because there is no claim that the 
transfer, between both firms, was invalid. The claim, from Miss R, is that it happened, with 
regards to her TD account, without her consent.
Each contracting party can potentially assign its rights in a contract  unless the contract 
itself prohibits such an assignment. In the present complaint, and as stated above, TDs 
terms of service (which Miss R agreed for her TD account) did not prohibit assignments, 
instead it expressly provided that TD could assign its rights and benefits (essentially its 
business) to a third party, with written notice given to account holders in relation to such 
assignment. The only parties to the assignment were TD and II, so third-party consent from 
Miss R was not required. Of course, Miss Rs account remained hers, in terms of the assets 
and cash within it, but the account also represented a part of TDs business that was being 
assigned to II. So long as there was no detriment to Miss Rs assets and cash, and other 
than the written notice she was entitled to, there was no call for her participation (or active 
participation) in the transfer of business between TD and II.
As I stated above, I am satisfied that Miss R was sent notice of the transfer to II in 2017. The 
main notification confirmed that TD had been sold to II in June 2017; it set out (over four 
pages) a summary of the key changes to the service, references to where the new terms 
could be accessed and a summary of the new fees/charges structure (including a quarterly 
administration fee of £22.50 (which could be used to earn trading credits), commission rates 
of £10 or £6 per trade (depending on frequency of trading) and a £1 dividend reinvestment 
commission); and it confirmed that the account would be automatically upgraded to the new 
terms and new fees/charges structure on 11 December 2017 in the absence of any closure 
or transfer instructions from her.
The effect of the assignment needed not be binding on Miss R. If she did not wish to hold an 
account with II she was free to either transfer her account elsewhere or close the account. 
The notice recognised this and reminded her of this. The onus was on her  like it would 
have been for other account holders who received the notification  to declare, by the 
deadline, what she wanted to do. The matter could not reasonably continue in an open-
ended fashion, hence notice of the date by which II would assume an account holders 
agreement with its terms and fees/charges structure in the absence of his/her declaration to 
the contrary. Available evidence shows that the first set of notices were sent out in July 2017 
so Miss R would have had around five months  within which repeat notice was sent  to 
consider and determine what she wanted to do with her account before it defaulted into IIs 
terms and charges structure. It is also worth noting that, in any case, IIs terms of service 
recognised an account holders right to terminate (with notice) the service at any time. 
Miss R pointed out to the investigator that it is unreasonable to expect her to have reacted to 
a notice(s) she did not see. I understand this point, but having sent the main and reminder 
notices to her at her correct email address II cannot reasonably be held responsible if she 
did not see them and it was not obliged to follow-up to verify she had seen them or to 
suspend all actions pending such verification. It was entitled to assume that account holders 
would monitor communications correctly sent to them about their accounts. 
The same, as above, applies to IIs notice of the change of fee/charges structure in April 
2019. I have seen a copy of the message sent to Miss R giving notice (and explanation) of 
this change.
I have not seen evidence that II deducted fees from the cash in Miss Rs account other than 
the fees it was entitled to deduct under its terms and under its fees/charges structure(s)  
both of which Miss R implicitly agreed to by virtue of not closing or transferring her account in 2017 or thereafter (up to the events in June last year). For this and the above reasons, I 
do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman