DRN-3825195
The complaint
Ms I complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Ms I has travel insurance through her bank account. The policy is insured through AXA. 
On 7 March 2020, Ms I travelled abroad and was due to return home on 19 March 2020. She 
didnt return home on that flight for several reasons, including illness and also local 
lockdowns as a result of the pandemic. Ms I said she was unable to get back to the UK until 
20 September 2020. 
Ms I made a claim to AXA for additional accommodation costs she incurred during this 
extended period abroad, which amounted to approximately £9,000. She provided a receipt 
for the costs incurred. She also sent in documents to show that she had received hospital 
treatment from 17 March 2020 to substantiate her extended trip.
AXA thought the costs were quite high. It asked for Ms I to provide evidence to support a 
payment being made. She said this was made in cash and provided bank statements 
showing various withdrawals. AXA decided to appoint an agent in the country Ms I visited to 
try to obtain further evidence of the amounts incurred and to validate the circumstances of 
the claim. 
The agent visited both the hospital and the hotel but was unable to obtain the evidence it 
needed to corroborate Ms Is version of events. As a result, AXA declined the claim as it said 
there was insufficient evidence to show that Ms I had incurred these expenses.
Unhappy with this answer, Ms I complained to AXA and brought her complaint to this 
service. She said she didnt think this response was fair as she had provided as much 
information to AXA as possible in relation to the accommodation costs. And it wasnt her 
fault that the agent abroad hadnt been able to get what it wanted.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think this should be upheld. She found 
that there was a lack of evidence to support the payment being made for the additional 
accommodation. So, she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly.
Ms I disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I made a claim to AXA for just over £9000 in relation to the additional accommodation 
costs she incurred when she had to extend her stay abroad for over several months 
following illness and the subsequent cancellation of her flight home due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. She also supplied copies of hospital invoices showing she had incurred medical 
expenses which amounted to approximately £1000. 
The travel insurance policy Ms I has with AXA includes terms and conditions explaining what 
it will and wont cover. The policy includes sections for medical emergency and repatriation 
expenses, along with cover for travel disruption if your return flight is cancelled and you incur 
additional accommodation costs. So based on this it would appear that there would be cover 
for the expenses Ms I is claiming.
However, it is generally accepted that it is for the insured person to show that they have a 
valid claim under any insurance policy. And in order to do so they will be required to provide 
evidence to support any claim for expenses incurred.
AXA doesnt think Ms I has provided enough evidence to support the accommodation costs 
she says she incurred. It says that the agent abroad has been unable to validate the 
circumstances of the claim. What I need to consider is whether AXA has acted reasonably 
by refusing to pay these costs claimed.
Ms I has said that she paid in cash for the accommodation. She provided a letter from the 
hotel manager to confirm the length of her stay  19 March 2020 to 19 September 2020 - 
and a cash receipt for the payment of these costs. She also provided bank statements which 
showed multiple cash withdrawals when AXA asked how she made these payments.
AXA asked Ms I for information about why she didnt leave on her original flight home on 
19 March 2020, which was before flights were cancelled due to the pandemic. She initially 
said she changed her flight to a later date as she had things still to do but then she provided 
information to show that she had been unwell prior to her original leaving date and received 
treatment at a hospital. AXA also asked why she hadnt returned earlier than September 
2020 on the government repatriation flights that were being provided. Ms I said the British 
Embassy told her she wasnt entitled to return on one of their flights as she wasnt a British 
resident  which she says is incorrect. As far as Im aware there hasnt been any evidence 
provided to substantiate her comments. As there were changes to some of the original 
information given for the reason for the extended stay I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
want to investigate this further.
AXA appointed an agent in the country Ms I visited in order to validate the claim by visiting 
the hospital and the hotel. But when the agent tried to get information to substantiate the 
claim, it seems that the staff were reluctant to provide the necessary details. 
At the hospital, there didnt appear to be a record of Ms I on the patient register but the 
administrator verbally confirmed she had been there. The hospital was unwilling to provide 
any evidence to show how payment was made for the treatment Ms I received. However, it 
was noted by the agent that the invoice they were shown, which had the same invoice 
number as that given to Ms I, showed a different patients name. 
 
Ms I told AXA that she stayed in the hotel as she had to go to the hospital regularly for 
treatment. In their report, the agent has commented that the hotel is quite some distance 
from the hospital and has queried why Ms I would stay there while having to go and receive 
regular treatment  it is noted that there are hospitals closer to this hotel that Ms I could have 
been treated at. At the hotel, the agent met with the manager. Whilst he verbally confirmed 
that Ms I had been a guest there, he was unable to provide any evidence of her stay, nor 
provide any documentation to support how the payment had been received. The manager 
also said that Ms I wasnt resident in the hotel for the whole duration of this period.The amount claimed is not insignificant, so I dont think it is unreasonable for AXA to request 
evidence to show the financial history of these transactions. I would expect entities such as 
hospitals and hotels to be able to provide an audit trail for these expenses. And so, I can 
appreciate why the lack of information provided by the hospital and hotel, along with 
anomalies with the invoice for the medical treatment and the inconsistency regarding her 
residency at the hotel, would lead AXA to refuse to pay the claim at this stage.
Ms I has said that she isnt claiming for the medical treatment and only supplied this when 
AXA asked about her hotel stay. So, she says this information shouldnt impact her claim. 
While I appreciate her intention wasnt to claim for the medical expenses, the extended stay 
did in part relate to the time when she was unwell and therefore, I think it is fair for AXA to 
want to obtain validation of her treatment.
So, when taking everything into account and based on the evidence that has been supplied 
so far for the additional accommodation costs, Im persuaded that AXA has acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner when declining to pay Ms Is claim. I dont require AXA to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman