DRN-3688303
The complaint
Mr M complains about loans granted to him by Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G). He says that 
L2G shouldnt have agreed to the loans because they were unaffordable for him.
 
Mr M has brought his complaint to us via a claims management company but for simplicity I 
will refer to him throughout.
 
What happened
L2G agreed three loans for Mr M. The first was repaid early with some of the principal from 
Mr Ms next loan. This second loan was also repaid early with some of the principal from the 
third loan. I understand that this third loan is still outstanding. Ive set out some of the 
information L2G provided about these loans in the table below, all figures rounded.
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repayableTotal 
paid
1 11/01/2020 15/02/2021 £250 £57 18 £1,029 £821
2 15/02/2021 24/08/2021 £328 £75 18 £1,349 £683
3 24/08/2021 Outstanding £534 £110 18 £1,974 £877
Mr M said that L2G didnt carry out proportionate checks before lending to him. He said he 
was depended on credit and had several late payments on his other borrowings at the time 
each loan was agreed by L2G. Mr M said L2G was irresponsible to have agreed these loans 
for him, and that they have impacted negatively on his health as well as having a financial 
impact. 
L2G said it conducted an affordability check before lending to Mr M each time. It checked 
what Mr M had said about his income using an online verification tool and checked his credit 
file. L2G says it took into account Mr Ms credit commitments and estimated his monthly 
expenditure. It found that the loans would be affordable for him and disagreed that it had 
been irresponsible to lend to him, although it did see some adverse information on his credit 
file. L2G said that it was sorry to hear of Mr Ms financial difficulties and offered to waive the 
outstanding loan balance as a gesture of goodwill in its final response to Mr M about his 
complaint.
Mr M declined this offer and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
what happened when Mr Ms loans were agreed. They found that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate of L2G to have looked further into Mr Ms circumstances 
before lending to him because of the adverse information it saw on his credit file. However, 
they didnt have enough information about Mr Ms circumstances to be able to say that a 
proportionate check would have led L2G to decline to lend to him. So they didnt recommend 
that his complaint be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. He hasnt provided any further information for me to consider when making 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L2G  will be familiar with the regulations in place at the time so I will summarise its main 
obligations. L2G needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing each loan. In other words, it needed to check that he could meet 
his repayments out of his usual means without having to borrow further and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The necessary checks 
needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (the amount offered and the loan 
term, for example) and Mr Ms particular circumstances. The overarching requirement was 
that L2G needed to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms applications to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make fair 
lending decisions?
Having considered everything carefully, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for him and Ive explained below how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
L2G carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr M applied for his first loan 
- it recorded his monthly income as £2,100 and estimated that his expenses, including debt 
repayments, came to £759. L2G says that it used an online income verification tool and 
confirmed that Mr M received at least £1,027 monthly. 
L2G also checked Mr Ms credit file and provided a copy of the credit report it relied on. L2G 
found that Mr M had £1,676 of debt in default with the latest default occurring the month 
before on a balance of £180, after the account had been in an arrangement to pay for about 
a year. He also had two active county court judgements (CCJs) for £2,150, the most recent 
being over three years old, which may have been related to the defaulted accounts. 
So, although the loan seemed affordable for Mr M, I dont think L2G should have agreed to 
lend to him on the basis of the information it had because it also seemed Mr M might be 
having current money problems. Furthermore, there was a significant difference between 
what Mr M had said about his income and the figure L2G relied on. Altogether, I think it 
would have been a reasonable response by L2G to look into Mr Ms circumstances in more 
depth before agreeing to lend to him by, for example, verifying his expenditure and 
understanding how he was managing his existing debts. 
Mr M didnt make all his payments on time for his first loan but caught up either within a few 
days or made a double payment the following month.
L2G carried out a similar assessment before agreeing a second and third loan for Mr M. It 
recorded his monthly income as £2,400 and his total expenses as £840 in February 2021. In 
August 2021, L2G recorded Mr Ms monthly income as £3,500 and his total expenses as 
£928. As before, L2G relied on lower figures for Mr Ms income of £1,155 and £1,387 in 
February and August respectively. L2G also checked Mr Ms credit file each time. It didnt record any great change in early 2021 but by August 2021 Mr Ms credit file showed one 
active CCJ and a default balance of £221. 
It seems from the figures L2G relied on that the second loan would have been affordable for 
Mr M but, for the same reasons as before, I think L2G should have been prompted to look 
into his circumstances further before lending to him again. Mr M didnt make all his payments 
on time for his second loan but caught up the following day or within a week. 
By the time Mr M applied for his third loan, it seems his circumstances had improved  hed 
cleared some of his debts and was earning more money. L2G knew at this point that Mr M 
had managed to meet his payments for his previous loans, albeit not all on time but fairly 
soon afterwards, and I cant see that his management of these loans impacted adversely on 
his credit file. However, this was the third loan Mr M had applied for within about a year and 
a half, and his second refinance. As before, I think it would have been reasonable for L2G to 
have looked into his circumstances in more depth before agreeing to lend to him again. 
Ive considered what proportionate checks might have revealed about Mr Ms circumstances. 
Mr M provided some information about his other debts which shows that he was borrowing 
from other lenders throughout the time of his L2G loans and I have reviewed this. When 
Mr M applied for each of his L2G loans he had at least one active short term loan and credit 
card balances. Mr M told us that he had missed payments on his other loans and was reliant 
on credit. However, its not obvious from the information Mr M provided that he couldnt 
afford to repay his existing debts, was borrowing beyond his means or would have problems 
repaying further credit. Mr M hasnt told us about his circumstances at the time or provided 
any information about his means so I dont know what L2G might have learnt through further 
checks and what conclusions it might have drawn about Mr Ms reliance on credit to meet his 
living costs. 
In summary, while I think L2Gs checks werent proportionate, I cant say that it would have 
learnt enough to decline to lend to Mr M had it looked into his circumstances further before 
lending to him. And so I am not upholding his complaint and do not require L2G to pay him 
any compensation.
I can see from the statement of account that Mr M met his repayments on his third loan up to 
30 March 2022, a month or so before he made a complaint to L2G, and his account is now in 
arrears. L2G will be aware that it needs to treat Mr M fairly and with forbearance and due 
consideration regarding his outstanding balance. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited for the reasons Ive 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman