DRN-3313590
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) failed to refund £18,000 he lost as part of an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. However, in summary, Mr M was scammed out of £18,000 by a fraudulent 
investment broker called Berson Trading. He made the following payments between March 
and September 2019:
Date Payee/Merchant Amount
29 March 2019 Lex Mercatoria Ltd £5,000
21 June 2019 Anglo Iberian Ltd £8,000
5 September 2019 VS Direct Ltd £5,000
Total: £18,000
Mr M discovered he had been scammed when he was no longer able to access his trading 
account and the website was no longer available. However, Metro declined to refund the 
money he had lost as Mr M had authorised the payments. It said that part of its payment 
process included an effective warning about being scammed, which it said Mr M would have 
seen. Metro said it also contacted Mr M as his payment of £5,000 in September 2019 had 
flagged due to the financial institution it was going to. However, the bank said that he 
confirmed the payment despite them telling him to check he was sending the funds to the 
correct place. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he thought that Metro ought to have intervened 
from the first payment Mr M made in March 2019, which he thought would have prevented 
any loss if it had properly questioned him about the payment at that point. Metro failed to 
respond, so the matter has been escalated to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Ive also considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the Code), which Metro committed to follow and came into 
force on in force in May 2019. So, Im aware that the Code will only apply to the 
second and third payments Mr M made after May 2019. 
However, notwithstanding the Code, in light of the odd pattern of these payments, I 
do think that by the first payment of £5,000 Mr M made in March 2019 that there 
were fraud triggers. Mr M opened his Metro account in November 2018. And from the 
point he opened the account to the point he made the first £5,000 payment on 
29 March 2019, he had not made any other large payments of this kind, and he rarely 
made payments of over a few hundred pounds from his account. So a payment of 
£5,000 to a new payee marked a significant departure from the usual activity that can 
be seen on his account, such that it would have been reasonable for Metro to have 
questioned him at this point before processing the payment in order to satisfy itself 
that all was well.
Ive considered whether any such intervention in March 2019 would have likely 
prevented Mr M from making the payment, and Im satisfied it likely would have. I 
appreciate that Metro did intervene in the third payment Mr M made in 
September 2019 when it questioned him about it, and that this did not prevent him 
from losing his money to the scam. But I dont think their line of questioning went far 
enough in the circumstances.
When Metro called Mr M on 5 September 2019, it asked him what the payment was 
for and how it came about. He told it that it was for a company called Berson Trading 
who would call him about investment opportunities. Metro noted that the company he 
was paying was different to the name of his broker, so it asked that he contact them 
to see if the account and sort code is correct and known to them. Mr M got in contact 
with the scam company who told him that it was one of their accounts. When Metro 
called him back, it asked if he was happy for the payment to be released, to which 
Mr M confirmed he was. 
So, while I appreciate Metro did ask some questions about the nature of the payment 
and where it was going, I do not think those questions went far enough. At the time 
the payment was made, Metro ought to have had a good understanding of how 
investment scams commonly work. And given the size of the payment in relation to 
Mr Ms normal pattern of spending, and the fact that it was being paid to a new 
payee, I would have expected the bank to have asked further probing questions 
about the context and purpose of the transaction  particularly with regards to the 
broker who he said was in regular contact with him. 
While it is not up to our service to dictate which questions a bank should ask, Metro 
couldve, for example, asked how Mr M had found Berson Trading and what 
research/checks he had carried out on the broker to determine if it was legitimate. 
This would have formed part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer 
from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. Had Metro asked such questions 
when Mr M came to make the first payment in March 2019, Im satisfied it would have 
become apparent at that point that Mr M was falling victim to a scam: the broker he 
was sending money to was not regulated by the FCA, and the account he was 
sending money to also did not match the name of the broker he was allegedly 
paying. Metro did not need to know for certain whether Mr M was dealing with a 
fraudulent trader or investing in a legitimate product; reasonable grounds for 
suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations 
and principles of good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, 
therefore, that Metro ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with 
unregulated investment brokers.
If Metro had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked 
more closely into Berson Trading before proceeding. There is no evidence that he 
was willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. 
It seems more probable that he would have made further enquiries into investment 
scams and whether or not the broker was regulated. He could have discovered they 
were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of investment scams. In 
other words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have 
exposed Berson Tradings false pretences, causing him to stop trading and 
preventing further losses through making the later payments in June and 
September 2019.
As outlined above, the remaining two payments fall within the period after Metro had 
signed up to the CRM Code. I do not consider that either of these payments fall 
within the exceptions outlined in the Code. I appreciate Metro provided a scam 
warning through its online banking system when Mr M was in the process of making 
the payments, which warned about being contacted out of the blue with an 
investment opportunity. But I do not consider this to have been an effective warning 
as required by the Code (i.e. clear, impactful, timely and specific); It doesnt provide 
enough information about what an investment scam could look like, for example. 
Most of the time investors have completed an online form, so the call also isn't 
always out the blue. 
Im also satisfied that Mr M had reasonable basis for belief that he was investing with 
a genuine company. I do not think Mr M could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing 
was likely to have been a simulation. This was a sophisticated scam, so I do not think 
he had any cause to believe that the payment he was making was not legitimate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr M the £18,000 he lost to the scammer; and
As this was a current account, Metro should add interest to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the respective dates of loss 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman