DRN-4268896
The complaint
Mr W has a healthcare plan with Vitality Health Limited and complains that it mis-sold him 
additional optical, dental and audiological cover.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, at renewal in 2022, Mr W added optical, dental and audiological 
cover to his personal healthcare plan with Vitality at an additional cost. In January 2023, 
Mr W complained to Vitality about the sale of the additional cover, the extent of the cover 
and the claims process.  
Mr W says that Vitality mis-sold the additional cover to him. He says that Vitality told him 
that he could claim for both glasses and sunglasses and that it didnt draw to his 
attention that hed have to have had a dental check-up in the previous 15 months to be 
able to make a claim for dental cover. Mr W also says that the claims process isnt easy 
and that hes had difficulty speaking to Vitality. 
Mr W wants Vitality to honour the terms of cover as he understood them at the point of 
sale or refund the premium in relation to the additional cover and compensate him for 
optical and dental costs to date. Mr W also wants compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Vitality said that it correctly described the optical cover 
at the point of sale but failed to mention that for dental cover, Mr W must have had a 
check-up with his dentist and completed all recommended dental treatment in the 
previous 15 months. It paid Mr W compensation of £160 in relation to the lapse in its 
service standards.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Vitality provided 
Mr W with sufficient information to enable him to make an informed choice about the 
additional cover. The investigator said that Vitality accepted that during the phone calls, 
it didnt explain the eligibility criteria in relation to the dental cover, but that information 
was in the policy documents. He thought that Vitalitys payment of compensation of £160 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator said that he couldnt ask Vitality to reimburse 
Mr W, as he hadnt presented it with all the information it needs to assess his claim.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that its unreasonable to have the 
insurance explained to him in a way thats contrary to the policy terms. Mr W didnt think 
that was acceptable simply because he could go on to read the documents. He said that 
the tone and content of the phone recordings show his disbelief at the information he 
was given. Mr W said that its reasonable  to rely on what he was told. He said that the 
documentation wasnt clear and Vitality didnt understand the cover. Mr W maintained 
that Vitality mis-sold the additional cover to him.  
The investigator considered what Mr W said but didnt change his view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W has strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it all into consideration 
when making my decision. I trust that Mr W wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on 
what I think are the central issues in the case.
the relevant terms and conditions
The plan provides that Vitality will reimburse 80% of the costs of certain dental procedures. 
In order to be eligible for that benefit, Mr W must have had a check-up with his regular 
dentist and completed all recommended dental treatment in the 15 months before cover 
began. If Mr W hasnt seen his dentist in the 15 months before the cover began, eligibility will 
only begin after a check-up by a dentist and completion of recommended dental treatment. 
In relation to optical care, the plan provides reimbursement of costs up to certain policy limits 
for sight tests and new prescription glasses or contact lenses following that sight test in the 
plan year. The plan says as follows:
 Optical care
[]
For glasses, we will reimburse you for the cost of a single pair of frames, lenses (including 
bifocals or varifocals, where necessary), and lens modifications (coating, tinting or thinning). 
The cost of prescription sunglasses are eligible but you will not also be able to claim for a 
pair of regular glasses for the same prescription. You can claim for one repair to your 
existing prescription glasses in each plan year. No benefit is available for replacement 
glasses on the same prescription, and we will not reimburse you for accessories such as 
cases or cloths, unless they are included at no extra charge when purchasing the frames. 
has Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably?
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint because I think that the compensation Vitality has already 
paid is fair and reasonable. I say that because:   
Vitality didnt advise Mr W about the suitability of the policy for his needs. It was 
nevertheless obliged to provide him with information about the policy thats clear, fair, 
and not misleading, so that he could decide whether the policy was right for him. I 
think that the plan terms in relation to the dental and optical cover are clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the relevant phone calls. I wouldnt expect Vitality to 
go through all of the terms and conditions of the plan with Mr W on the phone as the 
detail is provided in the documentation. Vitality didnt tell Mr W that he could claim for 
both glasses and sunglasses  it said that he could claim for one or the other. But 
Vitality has accepted that it should have mentioned that for an eligible dental claim, 
Mr W must have had a check-up with his dentist and completed all recommended 
dental treatment in the previous 15 months.
Where errors like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect or 
incomplete information is true. There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
Vitality to honour the terms of the dental cover as Mr W understood them at the point of sale. We look at the effect of the error on the individual. Here, Mr W was 
disappointed to find that he didnt qualify for dental cover immediately and hes spent 
some time pursuing this matter.
Vitality didnt address Mr Ws concerns about the difficulties he had contacting it. I 
accept what Mr W says about this. 
Mr W has also complained about the claims process in that Vitality required 
information from his dentist. I dont think its unreasonable for Vitality to ask for 
information from the treating dentist as it needs to establish whether the treatment is 
eligible treatment under the plan.  
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct Vitality to refund the premium in relation to 
the additional cover as Mr W has had the benefit of the cover from the renewal date. 
Neither would it be fair and reasonable to direct Vitality to compensate Mr W for 
optical and dental costs to date. If Mr W wishes to make a claim against the plan he 
should submit a claim and Vitality will assess it in accordance with the plans terms. If 
Mr W thinks that Vitality hasnt acted fairly in assessing his claim, he should complain 
to it about that in the first instance. If hes not satisfied with Vitalitys response, its 
open to him to refer the matter to this service. 
Considering everything, I think that the compensation of £160 Vitality has already 
paid is fair and reasonable in this case in relation to the service issues Ive mentioned 
above. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration 
of Mr Ws distress and inconvenience caused by Vitality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman