DRN-3791779
The complaint
Mr B complains about a debt he has with Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading 
as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited. Mr B says the amount Cabot says he owes is higher 
than it should be, and it is incorrectly reporting a default against him. He also adds that 
Cabot didnt provide him with statements when he asked for them.
What happened
Mr B took out a credit card with a third-party lender, who Ill refer to as M. The debt with M 
defaulted, and M later sold the debt to Cabot in September 2021. 
Mr B says he is no longer disputing that he had an account with M. But he says that Cabot 
needs to prove that the debt is his. And if it cant do this then it should write-off the 
outstanding balance. 
In addition, Mr B says that the amount owed is much higher than it should be. He says the 
account balance went up a lot in lockdown and is far more than he used the account.
Mr B also adds that Cabot are incorrectly reporting a default against him. He says he had an 
agreement in place to pay a certain amount each month, which he has done, and so the 
account shouldnt have defaulted.
In order to put things right, Mr B would like Cabot to write off the debt and remove the 
defaults from his credit file. 
Cabot responded to Mr Bs complaint on 24 March 2022 by letter. It explained that the 
account Mr B had with M was opened on 13 July 2015  and was terminated by M on 31 
August 2021. Cabot confirmed M sent Mr B a default notice in December 2020 advising Mr B 
to bring the account up to date. Cabot confirmed that Ms fraud team had refunded three 
transactions to his account in 2017. And the balance on the account when it was sold to 
Cabot was £4,026.51.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr B but they didnt uphold his complaint. They 
thought that Cabot had requested appropriate evidence from M, when Mr B raised concerns 
about the debt being his  this included the credit agreement, default notice and statements. 
The Investigator explained that if M had defaulted the account, Cabot would also need to 
report this default. And the Investigator explained that although M couldnt provide Cabot 
with the final statement, they could see that the balance Cabot bought appeared to be inline 
with the August 2021 statement. The Investigator also explained that any dispute about the 
transactions on the statements would need to be directed to M. And they couldnt see that 
Cabot had applied any interest, charges, or other payments to the account. 
Mr B responded to say that the Investigator hadnt commented on one of his main points  
which was that Cabot hadnt sent him any of the information he asked for  which was 
mainly the statements. And it didnt respond to his complaint.
The Investigator made further enquiries with Cabot, who were able to provide evidence of 
posting the statements. The Investigator let Mr B know this, and they also let Mr B know that 
this service couldnt consider a complaint about Cabot not responding to his complaint.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to look into his complaint. He said he didnt agree with the 
Investigator because Cabot didnt respond to his complaint within eight weeks. He said 
Cabot intentionally delayed their response which was unfair. 
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to him, however I will 
explain my reasons for this below. 
Mr Bs complaint initially separated into five main complaint points, so Ill cover these points 
off individually below. However, I havent covered off one of Mr Bs original complaint points 
in that he disputed ever taking out the debt, as he appears to now accept he did have an 
account with M.
Incorrect amount outstanding
When Cabot originally purchased the debt in September 2021, it said the amount 
outstanding was £4,026.51. I have seen a copy of a statement produced by M dated August 
2021 which confirmed the outstanding amount was £4,057.94. 
Mr B had been making repayments to the account he had with M, previous statements show 
repayments of £31.43  which is the difference between the last statement Ive seen, and 
the balance Cabot says Mr B owed when it bought the debt. Im satisfied that the difference 
in the last statement balance and the opening balance with Cabot was because Mr B had 
made a payment to M just before the debt was sold to Cabot. 
Cabot has sent me a copy of the transaction history since it purchased the account. This 
shows that only payments have been made to the account  and the balance outstanding 
has decreased in line with the repayments. I havent seen anything to suggest that Cabot 
has added any interest or other charges to the account since it purchased it.
When Mr B disputed the amount of the outstanding balance, I can see Cabot requested 
information from M so that it could satisfy itself that the balance was correct. This is what I 
would have expected it to do. And on doing so, Cabot was satisfied that the balance it was 
reporting was correct. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Cabot made a mistake in how it reported the 
opening balance. It contacted the original lender when Mr B disputed the amount. And I 
havent seen that it has applied any other charges to the account. So, I dont think Cabot has 
done anything wrong in terms of the amount outstanding. 
If Mr B disputes any of the transactions on his statement with M, then he will need to take 
this up with M directly.Cabot reporting a default
Mr Bs account with M defaulted  it appears this is because the account was in arrears as 
Mr B wasnt keeping up with the contractual minimum repayment. 
When Cabot purchased the debt, it had a duty to continue to report information to the credit 
reference agencies  this includes the default. 
If Mr B thinks the account shouldnt have defaulted  then this concern would need to be 
directed to M.
It follows that I havent found that Cabot has done anything wrong in reporting the default.
Cabot not providing Mr B with statements.
Mr B says that despite requesting statements, Cabot didnt provide these to him.
Cabot has been able to provide me with evidence that satisfies me that the statements were 
printed and sent to Mr B. It has been able to show me information from its internal systems 
which shows the statements were printed, and it has shown me evidence from when the 
statement was posted  which shows the weight of the package sent to Mr B. Im satisfied 
that this is more likely than not to be the statements Mr B requested. It isnt clear why Mr B 
didnt get these  but given the evidence Ive seen; I dont think I can hold Cabot responsible 
for Mr B not receiving the statements.
I can see the Investigator has since forwarded the statements to Mr B, so he should now be 
in receipt of these.
Cabot taking too long to respond to Mr Bs complaint.
The Investigator has already explained to Mr B that this service cant consider a complaint 
about how Cabot has handled his complaint. Under the rules this service operates, I can 
only consider a complaint about a regulated activity, and complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity so I cant consider Mr Bs concerns further.
I can see though that Mr B first made Cabot aware that he disputed the balance on 15 
February 2022. And the date of the final response was 24 March 2022. So, Cabot did 
respond to Mr B within eight weeks  and I can see the letter was correctly addressed to 
him, so it isnt clear why he didnt receive this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. So, I wont be asking Cabot 
to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman