DRN-2274793
The complaint
Miss M complains that Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE havent treated her fairly with 
regard to her claim for the legal expenses in relation to an employment tribunal.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.
Miss M had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by 
Great Lakes. In February 2019 she made a claim as she wanted assistance in relation to an 
employment tribunal with her former employer. 
The claim was passed to a panel solicitor who concluded that there werent reasonable 
prospects of success (which is a requirement for cover under the policy). Miss M then went 
and sourced a legal opinion from her own solicitor T and shared this with Great Lakes. T 
concluded the legal action did have the required prospects of success.
Great Lakes still declined to take the claim further. In essence, they said the two solicitors 
opinions cancelled each other out and that Miss M would now need to fund a barristers 
opinion. Miss M complained. She says it wasnt made clear to her that she could have used 
her own solicitor from the outset, which wouldve led to a positive assessment and thereby 
her claim being funded, and that the differences between this and using a panel solicitor 
werent clearly explained. She says as shes got a solicitors opinion supporting her claim 
that it should now be accepted. 
Great Lakes maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said that Great Lakes 
should pay for a barrister to settle the dispute in relation to the prospects of success (rather 
than Miss M). He also made further recommendations as to what should happen, should the 
barrister conclude the claim should have been accepted sooner.
Great Lakes agreed to fund a barristers opinion. But Miss M still feels that she ought to be 
able to rely on her own solicitors opinion. She says if she hadnt been misled by Great 
Lakes in the first place, she would have got a positive assessment from her own solicitor and 
the claim would have been accepted from that point. She then wouldnt have had to 
represent herself and had all the stress that involved. Shes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining issue to decide here is whether Great Lakes need to do more than our 
investigator has already recommended. So, I wont repeat in detail what our investigator has 
already shared and will instead focus on whether or not Great Lakes did enough to make 
Miss M aware of the option to use her own solicitor at the start of her claim.
It isnt in dispute that Miss Ms policy (like most policies of this type) require that there are 
reasonable prospects of success for any legal action. Im satisfied this is fair and that a 
claim wont be accepted if such prospects dont exist. Great Lakes themselves arent legal 
experts, so I also think it is fair that they rely on suitably qualified legal opinion when making 
decisions about a claim. 
I understand the point Miss M makes which is if shed chosen her own solicitor from the 
start, she would have used the same solicitor that she later did. It was this solicitor who 
provided a positive legal assessment, so the claim would have been covered from the start. I 
accept that this may well have been how things might have played out. But I must consider if 
Great Lakes did anything wrong or unfairly caused Miss M not to use her own solicitor for the 
initial legal assessment.  
Ive listened to what was said between Miss M and Great Lakes in the early stages of the 
claim. And I think it is clearly explained to Miss M that she can use her own solicitor to 
conduct the legal assessment, but that the insurance wouldnt cover the cost of this. Or, she 
could have the assessment made by a panel solicitor which wouldnt cost her anything. 
Generally, an insurer needs to allow a policyholder the freedom to choose their solicitor 
when proceedings are imminent or if there is a conflict of interest. So, I dont think Great 
Lakes were wrong to not offer to fund a prospects assessment by Miss Ms own solicitor at 
that point. 
Miss M elected to have the panel solicitor do the legal assessment and enquired about how 
long this would take. In hindsight we now know that T saw things positively and the panel 
solicitor didnt. But there was no way of knowing this ahead of the assessments being 
conducted. It isnt the case that a panel solicitor would automatically view prospects in a 
negative way. Overall, I dont believe that Miss M was misled or given incorrect information. 
So, I cant fairly say Great Lakes did anything wrong on this point. 
As there are conflicting solicitors opinions on file. It is right that a barrister is instructed to 
resolve the question of the prospects of success. Great Lakes have already agreed to fund 
this assessment and I think that is fair. If the barrister finds that there are positive prospects 
of success, Id expect Great Lakes to consider what happened in the time since Miss M 
provided them with Ts opinion and to take appropriate steps if it transpires that the claim 
ought to have been accepted sooner.
Putting things right
To put things right, Great Lakes must take the actions detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Great 
Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE must pay a barrister to resolve the conflict of legal opinions on 
prospects. The barrister should be instructed on the basis of joint approval and joint 
instruction.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman