DRN-2117258
The complaint
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mishandled her cheque, causing her 
stress and financial loss. 
What happened
Ms F holds a current account with NatWest. Based on the information provided by both 
sides, here is a timeline of what I consider to be the key events relevant to this complaint:  
4 November 2019: Ms F goes to branch to pay in a $51,000 cheque. Shes explained 
that she frequently pays in foreign cheques as her mother is American and she helps 
with her financial affairs. And that the money was to make a payment towards her 
mortgage (which is with another bank). 
6 November: NatWest reports that it sent the cheque for collection  
13 November 2019: Ms F returns to branch. The cheque hasnt cleared. She says 
NatWest suspected fraud, but after speaking to her and completing some checks, it 
was able to verify the payment and move it to the next stage of checking. That day, 
NatWest received a message from the intermediary bank acknowledging receipt of 
the collection.
29 November 2019: NatWest says it contacted the intermediary bank for an update  
which reported that the collection was received by the American sending bank on 
18 November 2019
4 December 2019: Ms F arrives in the USA, cancels the cheque, and makes the 
payment via electronic transfer 
10 December 2019: Ms F tells NatWest that shes cancelled the cheque. It charges 
her a £60 collection fee and a £10 unpaid cheque fee
Ms F thinks NatWest should have cleared the cheque sooner. She says that, with previous 
foreign cheques, NatWest told her it could take 28 days  but took less than three weeks. 
And shed given NatWest signed documents to prevent authorisation issues occurring with 
such transactions. She also says she lost confidence  so had to travel to the USA to 
resolve things. She thinks NatWest should reimburse her travel costs and expenses, and the 
fees charged by the American bank. 
NatWest has refunded the £70 fees it charged  but disputes that it did anything wrong. 
When our investigator reviewed the case, he agreed. He thought NatWests process made it 
clear that foreign cheques could take up to 12 weeks to clear. And that it was Ms Fs choice 
to travel to the USA, cancel the cheque, and make payment via electronic transfer. But she 
still thinks NatWest should reimburse her reported losses. She said it initially suspected 
fraud, yet this was only acted on when she went to branch. And that NatWest hasnt taken 
account of all her charges. So, Im making the final decision on how this complaint should be 
resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It may help to  briefly  explain the process for clearing the cheque. Foreign cheques cant 
go through the UK clearing system. So instead, NatWest sent the cheque to the overseas 
bank  and it would have released the funds to Ms F if/when it received payment from them. 
This process is known as collection. The recipient bank doesnt release the payment until 
its received this from the overseas bank  meaning theres no risk that the funds will later be 
withdrawn if the cheque isnt paid. 
To uphold this complaint, Id need to find that NatWest made an error which caused Ms F a 
loss. Im conscious that its not the only party involved in the collection process. Its also 
reliant on any intermediary banks and the overseas bank. Additionally, although Ms F says 
NatWest previously advised her of/cleared cheques within a quicker timeframe, Ive seen 
evidence of its publicly-available information about how long it can take to collect a foreign 
cheque:
Payment is made when we received the funds from the bank abroad. This can take 
up to 12 weeks to clear. This is subject to additional fees levied by the overseas 
bank
The losses Ms F says she suffered are her costs and expenses from travelling to the USA  
and the fees she incurred cancelling and resending the money. She took this action one 
month after paying in the cheque. At that point, there were almost eight weeks left within the 
standard timeframe. Ive no reason to suspect this would have been breached (let alone due 
to an error by NatWest) if Ms F hadnt cancelled the cheque. So, I dont find the time taken to 
be unreasonable. That said, Ive considered what action NatWest took before Ms F 
cancelled the cheque  to see if it made any errors and how these impacted her.
Ms F has mentioned that, when she visited branch around nine days after paying in the 
cheque, it hadnt cleared. She says NatWest was concerned about fraud. Its unclear how 
this fits with what NatWest has told us  that it sent the cheque for collection on 6 November 
2019. But if it was completing fraud checks, I wouldnt consider that unreasonable or 
surprising. We actively expect banks to have checks and procedures in place to identify and 
prevent fraud and scams. I can understand how a payment of this type and size could have 
triggered further checks. Such measures are ultimately in place to protect customers like 
Ms F (as well as the bank). And, going by Ms Fs testimony, I dont consider the potential 
time this took to be unreasonable. This is because Ive seen evidence confirming that the 
cheque was received by the intermediary bank by/on 13 November 2019.
Regardless of this nine-day period, Ms F reports that things came to a standstill from 
19 November 2019. As NatWest has explained, the cheque was with the American bank by 
that point. So, on balance, I dont consider it responsible for that wait  which in any event 
was well within the advised timeframe. From what Ms F has told us about the circumstances 
of the payment, I understand why she felt compelled to take more immediate action. But Im 
not persuaded NatWest can be held responsible for this. I dont consider her decision to be a 
direct and unavoidable consequence of an error it made.
That means I wouldnt expect NatWest to refund the costs Ms F says she incurred  
including the fees she was charged by other parties. Although some were taken from her 
NatWest account (in addition to what its now refunded), Ms F acknowledges these were 
charged by the American bank. NatWest isnt responsible for another banks charges. In any 
event, these were a consequence of her decision to cancel the cheque and make other 
arrangements  which Ive not found NatWest responsible/at fault for. Ms F says the £70 refund didnt include the interest and charges she incurred on this 
amount. Im satisfied these fees were applied correctly in line with NatWests fees for 
international payments, so it wasnt obliged to refund them. In any event, having reviewed 
her statements I cant see that any additional interest and charges were applied as a result 
of the (later refunded) fees.
I appreciate why Ms F feels strongly about this complaint. But for the reasons explained 
above, I cant fairly and reasonably hold NatWest responsible for the costs she wants it to 
reimburse her for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman