DRN-2607084
The complaint
Mr S complains that Canada Life Limited has unreasonably refused his critical illness claim.  
What happened
Mr S is a member of his employers group critical illness scheme, which is operated by 
Canada Life. 
He sadly became unwell in 2019. He was subsequently diagnosed with coronary artery 
disease for which he then required surgery in October 2019. 
In November 2019, Mr S made a claim to Canada Life. It agreed to assess his claim against 
the coronary artery bypass grafts definition in the policy wording. Canada Life wrote to Mr 
Ss consultant cardiothoracic surgeon, Mr C for further information. 
In May 2020, Canada Life refused the claim. It said it understood the rationale for Mr Ss 
consultant performing a less invasive thoracotomy procedure. However, Mr Ss policy terms 
and conditions were clear in requiring that the member must have undergone a median 
sternotomy for a claim to be valid. It could not therefore pay a claim.  
Mr S complained. He said that the surgery was to address a potentially fatal anomaly in his 
heart. Though it was decided that a different type of thoracotomy was appropriate over a 
traditional sternotomy, this did not render his surgery or condition any less serious. 
He supplied a letter from Mr C which confirmed that while he and his team were experienced 
in traditional coronary artery bypass graft surgery, they now have expertise in minimal 
access procedures and for this reason a small left thoracotomy was undertaken instead. 
Mr C confirmed that with the thoracotomy Mr S required both intensive care and hospital 
stays as he would have done with normal cardiac surgery. The only difference was that he 
had the expertise to offer a procedure that had was less invasive than traditional median 
sternotomy. Finally, he said that in his view, undergoing the most appropriate surgical 
procedure on clinical grounds should not penalise Mr S in terms of his insurance cover.  
Mr S also provided a letter from another Consultant Cardiologist, Dr H, that said he had 
undergone grafting for severe coronary artery disease.
Canada Life was unwilling to change its view that the policy terms hadnt been met. So, Mr S 
referred his claim to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
the medical evidence showed that Mr Ss treating consultants decided on a type of left-mini 
thoracotomy instead of a conventional median sternotomy when conducting his bypass 
surgery. Therefore, the policy wording hadnt been met.  
Mr S said that a partial payment ought to be made to him. He said that he suffered a blocked 
artery necessitating that he had a coronary bypass undertaken, as required by the policy 
definition. That this was done by thoracotomy instead of the traditional sternotomy due to 
advances in medical treatment shouldnt warrant a full rejection of his claim. By continuing to 
refuse the claim, Canada Life is, in his view, hiding behind a technicality.  
In addition, Mr S said that an insurer couldnt refuse a claim on the basis Canada Life had, 
and instead it must rely on any stated exclusions. Mini-thoracotomies were not excluded 
within the policy wording. He felt that the investigator had wrongly set out in his view that his 
illness was not covered by Canada Life, when he submits that it is covered but the means of 
resolving his illness through different types of surgery hasnt been accounted for. Mr S 
submits that Canada Life has behaved unethically and it should be properly investigated.  
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Mr Ss circumstances and I recognise that he continues to be 
unwell following his surgery. Unfortunately for Mr S, having reviewed all of the information 
carefully I am of the view that this complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why Ive 
reached that conclusion below. 
I know Mr S feels particularly strongly about the policy terms, but the correct position for this 
service to take is to assess a members claim against his or her group critical illness scheme 
policy wording for the condition or event being claimed. In Mr Ss case, this is Coronary 
artery bypass grafts- with surgery to divide the breastbone and it says:
The undergoing of surgery requiring median sternotomy (surgery to divide the 
breastbone) on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist to correct narrowing or 
blockage of one or more coronary arteries with bypass grafts.
As it is a group scheme where members join without the need for medical underwriting at the 
outset, the policy wording also goes on to list a number of related conditions and exclusions 
for the definition. I havent repeated these here, as (Mr S has identified) none of those listed 
conditions apply to him.  
I recognise that Mr S underwent a serious type of cardiothoracic surgery and that this 
surgery was for the intended purpose of bypass grafts following his coronary artery disease 
diagnosis. However, to satisfy the policy definition above, the surgery undertaken must be 
conducted via median sternotomy. 
Mr Ss employers policy wording doesnt have the latitude to accept claims for different 
levels of severity or to disregard part of the wording. Certain types of personal critical illness 
policies and group schemes may have severity levels set out within them, but the scheme Mr 
S joined is not one of those types of policies. Even if it were, each severity level would still 
have a certain definition that must be met. 
Section 2.1 of the policy sets out that Canada Life will pay the insured benefit to a member 
of the scheme if the person suffers from one of a number of insured events. That means the 
policy definition must be satisfied in full. I cannot therefore agree with Mr S that because he 
sadly had coronary artery disease which necessitated surgery that the definition is met in 
part. The wording Ive set out above must be met in order to require Canada Life to pay a 
claim. The medical evidence supplied from both Mr C and Dr H explains that Mr S was 
recommended Minimally Invasive Direct Coronary Artery Bypass because this surgical 
treatment for coronary artery disease is a less intrusive method of coronary artery bypass 
surgery than median sternotomy with several advantages. It says how this type of surgery is 
far less invasive, using a small incision and has a significantly reduced recovery time.  
I know Mr S feels it is unfair that Canada Life doesnt consider newer less invasive types of 
thoracotomy for coronary artery bypass grafts; it will only admit a claim where surgery was 
conducted by median sternotomy. However, the decision an insurer makes to include some 
conditions or procedures and not others in a critical illness policy isnt something we can look 
into or make awards about. Thats because our service is not the regulator; that duty falls to 
the Financial Conduct Authority.
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every conceivable critical illness 
a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed event, because the cost 
would be inherently unaffordable for most people. What critical illness policies provide is 
insurance against being diagnosed with the most common instances of severe illnesses and 
the most commonly occurring serious events.
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
In Mr Ss case, the wording that Canada Life uses for its group policy is one of the conditions 
suggested by the ABI in its model wording, and replicated exactly as the ABI suggests. I do 
not believe Canada Life has acted unfairly or unreasonably in requiring the severity of the 
surgery to divide the breastbone when this is proposed by the ABIs minimum standards. 
What this service can determine is whether, in the circumstances, a business has been fair 
and reasonable in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr S remains poorly and he 
feels strongly about the matter. But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition or event 
which does not meet all of the key requirements within a specified policy term is a 
reasonable action for an insurer to take.
My final decision
Though my decision will be disappointing for Mr S, I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman