DRN-3694859
The complaint
Ms H complains about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan, in 2009. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a financial loss.
JLT Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer mainly to JLT. 
What happened
At the time, Ms H was a current member of her OPS, having been employed from the mid-
1990s and accrued around 13 years worth of benefits. The company she was working for 
had signalled an intention to close the DB scheme to new members and move all employees 
over to a defined contribution (DC) pension going forward. A DC scheme is a pension where 
the benefits it provides depends on the value of the contributions made and the investment 
growth. So, the investment risks are borne by the individual consumer. 
As a consequence of this change, a time-limited enhancement was being offered to the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) for members who opted to leave the DB scheme. Members 
of the DB scheme were also being offered regulated financial advice, the cost of which was 
being met by Ms Hs employer. JLT was contracted to provide that advice.
Information was gathered in a fact-find carried out in early October 2009 about Ms H. I hvw 
complemented this with information she herself has provided more recently:  
She was around 33 years old and earning £37,000 (gross) plus commission. Ms H 
lived with a partner and a dependent child.
Ms H owned a UK property and another abroad. Both were mortgaged. 
Ms Hs OPS had a cash equivalent transfer value in 2009 of around £87,000, with a 
normal retirement age of 65 (although Ive seen some unreduced benefits could be 
taken at 60 in certain circumstances). In addition to this sum, an enhancement of 
almost £28,000 was being offered to members of the OPS who transferred out 
completely. This could be added to the CETV or taken as a taxable lump sum.
In October 2009, JLT issued a suitability report recommending that Ms H transfer out of her 
OPS to a personal pension plan. In November 2009, Ms H signed the forms enabling the 
transfer to take place.
Ms H complained in 2020 about the transfer-out of her OPS being unsuitable for her and 
says shes worse off as a result. Ms H says she only realised much later what had happened 
and she hadnt understood the transfer process back in 2009. 
JLT responded to Ms Hs complaint and says it doesnt agree that it did anything wrong. It 
says Ms H was fully informed about the process of transferring out and made aware of the 
risks. Ms H then referred her complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into 
her complaint and said we should uphold it. They said JLT shouldnt have recommended the 
transfer out of her OPS. They said it wasnt in her best interests and she is now in a worse 
position than she would have been in, if it hadnt been for the unsuitable advice.
JLT still disagrees with this and because the complaint cant be resolved informally, its come 
to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision about this case in August 2022 in which I said I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. I gave the parties involved an opportunity to submit any 
further information or evidence they wanted me to consider. JLT didnt have anything more 
to add. Ms H sent in two replies with a number of points she wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Introduction and points of complaint
At the time, there were a number of important rules in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) part of the regulators Handbook. These included but were not limited to a 
requirement upon JLT to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. In addition to this, COBS required JLT to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), also states in COBS that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Hs best 
interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
JLT therefore had a number of important responsibilities when providing advice. 
However, I think its reasonable for me to point out, as I did in my provisional decision, that 
these events took place a considerable time ago. I certainly dont doubt that Ms H is being 
anything other than honest in her recollections of what she thinks happened, but I mention 
this because her memories of events from the time dont appear to be entirely accurate. For 
instance, Ive noted Ms Hs points of complaint were broadly as follows:
that she was never given any financial advice about transferring out of her pension, 
only a form to fill in  she was keen to repeat this after my provisional decision
the form only contained two choices. One was to stay in the pension, and one was to 
leave with a cash amount paid out to her
she says she always wanted to remain with a final salary pension and had she 
known, then thats what she would have done.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think the documentary evidence from 
the time supports Ms Hs recollections. I also think her comments about not knowing she 
could have remained within the scheme conflict with other recollections she has.Ive previously said that I think its very clear that Ms H did go through an advice process. 
When she replied to my provisional decision she reiterated she hadnt been given financial 
advice. But Im afraid I think theres strong and persuasive evidence this isnt correct. 
Although I accept she may not remember this now, this was a paid for process under a 
specific scheme where an incentive to transfer out of her OPS was on offer. In October 2009 
a suitability report was prepared by JLT for Ms H, as was a transfer analysis document, 
which explained about how her pension might grow outside the OPS if she decided to 
transfer out. The suitability report went on to recommend that Ms H transfer out of her OPS 
for the following reasons: 
JLT implied the pension could grow outside the OPS, to a greater degree than the 
benefits of her remaining inside.
JLT said transferring out would provide an immediate (taxable) lump-sum of around 
£28,000 which could be useful as Ms Hs then partner had recently been made 
redundant. It also said the cash could help to pay off some of her mortgage.
It said Ms H would enjoy greater flexibility and personal control over her pension.
JLT said transferring out would provide a higher level of death benefits before 
retirement, and provide a higher level of tax-free cash at retirement. It said the death 
benefits, generally, would offer more flexibility for her.
On this basis, JLT recommended she should transfer to a personal pension plan operated by 
a large and well-known provider.
Ive also explained that in November 2009 Ms H signed an option form to confirm shed 
taken the financial advice on offer and she wanted to go ahead and accept the cash 
enhancement upon leaving the pension scheme. Ms H provided her bank account details for 
the cash to be paid directly to her rather than reinvesting it in the new pension. The 
documents Ive seen were clear enough that Ms H ought to have been aware of the different 
options available to her. These options included keeping the pension where it was, or 
transferring out to a different plan - and also deciding whether to either take the £28,000 
enhancement as a taxable cash element, or as part of her overall pension transfer value. 
These things show very clearly that financial advice was provided to her.
So, everything Ive seen still strongly shows that Ms H was aware of these options and that 
she made a choice about leaving the scheme. I think her choice was based on both the 
advice shed been given by JLT and her circumstances of that time. And I also think that 
what Ms H has now said, about always wanting to stay in her OPS, would have been an 
option that she was fully aware of at the time. In support of this view, Ive set out below a 
number of warnings Ms H was given during the course of the advice. Ive taken these from 
the suitability report:
The offer is voluntary and you have the right to keep your pension benefits in the 
Scheme.
If you invest in the funds that match your stated cautious and balanced attitude to 
investment risk, these funds can fall in value. You should only consider transferring 
your benefits if you are willing to accept this risk.
Accepting the CETV and enhancement or optional cash payment will remove all 
entitlement you and your spouse/dependants (if any) have to benefits from the Scheme. If you do decide to transfer, we recommend that you invest the full 
enhanced CETV payment into your own Pension Plan. Unless you do this, you 
might end up with a lower pension than if you left your pension within the Scheme.
You can remain a member of The Scheme.
All these things give me confidence that Ms H was aware of the process she was entering. I 
think theres solid evidence here that she went through a fairly comprehensive advice 
process and was able to take some time to consider JLTs recommendations against the 
options she knew were available about either remaining within the OPS, or transferring out 
to access the cash enhancement. Given everything Ive seen, I think Ms H had enough 
information to make an informed choice.
Ms Hs attitude to risk (ATR)
This is an important feature in this case because the investments Ms H was subsequently 
entered into comprised of various levels of investment risk. 
Ms H now says she was put into an ATR category that was too high for her circumstances. 
She says she was an inexperienced investor and didnt really know much about the types of 
funds available. Our investigator also thought the ATR level had been set too high. The 
significance of this is broadly that low ATR categories can usually mean that invested funds 
are placed into areas where the ability to grow over time is typically considered to be more 
constrained  or safer. Conversely, higher ATR levels target higher levels of growth, but with 
associated risks. 
It seems Ms Hs ATR was arrived at after shed been asked to tick some boxes about it, 
each of which contained detailed descriptions ranging from very cautious (level 1) to 
speculative (level 5). Ms H ticked both levels 2 and 3, meaning between cautious and 
balanced  or risk levels 2/3 out of 5. She was then asked on the form to filter these choices 
down by apportioning percentage weightings to each level  she chose 25% for the cautious 
element and 75% for the balanced element. I think this shows a level of consideration had 
been given to the question of risk.
Ive also set out below how they were explained on the documentation JLT and Ms H used 
at the time:
Cautious: You are willing to take some risk in order to seek better than minimal returns 
above inflation but any risk to your investment must be small. You understand that this will 
increase the amount by which your investment may fall and rise in value but are prepared to 
accept this in order to achieve your overall aim of long- term growth but also accept that your 
caution may limit the possibility of growth. Typically, you would consider investing in a mix of 
assets including Cash, Fixed Interest/Gilts, Property and Shares.
Balanced: You are looking for a balanced level of risk and reward with the aim of achieving 
higher potential returns in the long term. You are willing to accept that the value
of your investment will fall and rise in value. Your main aim is to improve the real buying 
power of your pension fund, as compared with inflation, between now and your retirement. 
Typically, you would consider investing in a wide variety of assets, such as Shares, Cash, 
Fixed Interest.
I acknowledge that Ms H probably didnt have a direct history of investing in these types of 
funds herself. Nevertheless, I think its also fair to point out that these ATR levels applied to 
her were not high. Nor do I think it would be completely accurate to say Ms H didnt have an 
understanding of the risks she was signing up to with these types of funds. I think theres 
persuasive documentary evidence that Ms H would have understood she was being offered an opportunity here to transfer out of a defined benefit pension, to one where investment 
risks were involved. 
So, as far as her ATR is concerned, I think Ms H was placed into a relatively moderate 
category and not the higher risk categories she has since implied she was placed in. Given 
the above ATR descriptions, I think these show she would be investing for the longer-term 
and there could be some modest volatility in the interim.
Ms H also owned some property, including one abroad. I noted that she also had an 
endowment policy. So I think she would have understood the concepts of basic investing 
and I think its safe to say that whilst not a seasoned fund investor, she will have had some 
understanding of the potential investment returns. But more so, because she ticked the 
above descriptions herself and signed the form at the end, I think its fair to say she would 
have read over the risk descriptions which I think were set out clearly. 
Accordingly, I dont think her being placed in levels 2/3 out of 5 was unreasonable.
Financial viability 
JLT commissioned a transfer value analysis exercise which covered a number of different 
scenarios as to how Ms Hs pension might grow outside the scheme and when she might 
eventually decide to retire. 
Its fair to say this was based on future assumptions as Ms H was only 33 at the time of the 
advice and based on what Ive seen she didnt have concrete retirement plans. Ive noted 
that Ms H said shed like to retire as early as possible and she mentioned an age of 55. But 
given her age at the time, I think this was an aspiration rather than a plan and she probably 
had many years ahead of her to refine what she wanted - and would be able - to do.
Because a cash enhancement was being offered in her case, and also because Ms H could 
retire at 60 with some unreduced pension benefits, there were quite a few different scenarios 
to consider in the analysis. 
JLT referred to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the average annual 
investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until 
retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a 
range of different things which help me consider how likely it is that a personal pension could 
achieve the necessary investment growth for the transfer out to become financially viable.
This advice was also given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Initial comparisons in the suitability and transfer analysis reports were based on the 
combined enhanced transfer value of around £115,000  so they included the £28,000 
enhanced offer being re-invested back into Ms Hs pension. For this, the critical yield 
required at the age of 65 was 5% if she took a full pension and 4.7% if she took tax-free 
cash and a reduced pension. Further comparisons were also made, with buying a section 
32 pension, a type of buyout pension with certain guarantees preserved. The critical yields 
for this were higher.For retirement at the age of 60, the critical yields were 5.8% (full pension) and 5.5% (tax-free 
cash and a reduced pension). The critical yields for a section 32 pension were again higher.
However, as Ive said, the evidence shows there had also been discussion about Ms H 
taking the enhanced lump-sum of £28,000 as cash, rather than re-investing it in her pension 
going forward. The analysis therefore used what it called alternative critical yields based on 
Ms H taking the offer in cash and reinvesting only her original CETV of around £87,000 in a 
personal pension. For retiring at 65, the critical yields here were 5.9% (full pension) and 
5.6% (if taking tax-free cash). At the age of 60, the critical yields were 6.9% and 6.6% 
respectively. 
What were the most relevant figures to use?
JLT recommended that Ms H transfer out of her OPS and it provided examples of why this 
would be in her best interests whether she retired at 65, or earlier, at 60. I think its fair to say 
its recommendation was largely based on the critical yield figures being lower than what JLT 
thought could be reasonably achieved in future growth, if Ms H transferred out and given her 
cautious  balanced ATR.
Ive therefore considered whether I think JLTs growth assumptions were achievable and 
whether, at the time of the advice, they could be said to have a reasonable chance of 
outperforming the critical yield figures over time. 
Overall, I think they were reasonable assumptions and that a greater growth could be 
achieved. Ill explain why.
I dont think transferring out to a section 32 pension was ever a realistic option here. JLT did 
not recommend this as a course of action. It mentioned the market was limited and charging 
structures could be higher. I think this was right, as there were often inflexible rules about 
retiring or taking cash lump-sums with these types of pensions, which I dont think would 
have suited Ms H. Ive therefore discounted the analysis around these types of pension. 
This means the remaining critical yield figures all ranged from 4.7% to 6.9% depending on 
what retirement scenario was being considered. JLT also added that the required critical 
yield, taking into account Ms Hs preferred retirement age of 55, was 6.5% and its in-house 
actuaries at the time calculated that she could achieve 6.8% per year in growth outside the 
scheme.
Ive seen that the discount rate in this case was 7% with 31 years to retirement. Also, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the 
lower projection rate 5% per year. And as Ive said, I dont disagree that the ATR ascribed to 
Ms H was correct. So, I think an assumed growth rate of around 6.8% - 7% was a 
reasonable figure for JLT to use. 
I therefore think this demonstrates that a transfer-out of the OPS could be financially viable 
for Ms H. JLT was recommending her pension could grow at a higher rate over time, than 
the critical yield figures. 
However, its also very important to remember here that JLT and Ms H had discussed her 
also taking the cash enhancement to help cushion her partners redundancy and also to 
pay down some of her mortgage. So, these figures were based on Ms H also being given a 
lump-sum of around £28,000. And considering the critical yield figures for taking this course 
of action, I think its right to say that Ms H had a reasonable chance of her transferred-out 
funds achieving growth rates which might outperform the critical yield figures. With the benefit of an immediate lump sum of £28,000 on top of this, I therefore think the transfer was 
financially viable; so the recommendation was a suitable one for her consideration. 
Other issues 
The marketing material about the cash enhancement: 
Given I think the transfer-out was viable from a financial perspective, I carefully considered 
whether there were any other issues which could have made the advice unsuitable.
I first considered the issue of the cash enhancement and whether  or to what extent  this 
affected either the advice or what Ms H subsequently did. Ive noted our investigator 
expressed concern that the enhancement offer was time-limited and portrayed in a way 
which may have caused Ms H to act more quickly than was prudent. 
However, the marketing material about the enhancement came from Ms Hs employer at the 
time, rather than JLT. Although it did provide a time limit for making a choice about what to 
do, I consider it to have been a reasonable period which allowed a few months for her to 
make a decision. The marketing of the enhanced offer was also a relatively minor issue 
which I dont think would have unduly swayed Ms H into making a decision she wasnt happy 
with. Overall, I think she had plenty of time to make a decision and I dont think there being a 
decision date was unreasonable.
I also think its fair to say that such an offer, in Ms Hs circumstances, was likely to have 
been an important consideration and so telling her it came with certain rules and time-limits 
was generally a good thing. I have no doubt that with a home and a family to look after she 
would have found this offer one she wanted to give serious consideration to. Information in 
the documents Ive seen tends to confirm this.
Death benefits:
This issue was cited by JLT as being of relevance to Ms H. Death benefits are an emotive 
subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care 
of when they die. Ms Hs OPS came with good death benefits.
Still, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an 
attractive feature to Ms H who at the time wasnt married. So, its unclear whether the 
features of her existing OPSs spouse benefits, as good as they were, would have been as 
important to her at that time had her circumstances been different. Ive seen no evidence 
that losing these benefits disadvantaged Ms H at the time and I think its likely the ability to 
pass on whatever remained of her pension to a beneficiary of her choice on her death may 
have been a useful aspect of transferring out to a personal pension plan.
Flexibility in managing the pension going forward: 
JLT mentioned this in the suitability report. In reality, this was of less relevance to Ms H as 
she was only 33 years old and couldnt yet know what her needs in retirement might be, or 
whether she might want a flexible income over a more consistent one. However, I note that 
JLT did say she considered this issue to be of less relevance and I dont believe it was one 
of the things that JLTs recommendation relied on.
Summary
Ive considered everything Ms H said in her reply to my provisional decision with great care. I 
understand she feels disappointed, particularly as she says a relative, in similar 
circumstances, had their complaint upheld.However, I need to be clear that my decision has been about Ms Hs circumstances, all of 
which I have considered. In my decision I have set out why I think her complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Im afraid Ms Hs recollections of the events of 2009 simply arent borne out by the 
evidence Ive seen. She doesnt recall being given financial advice and portrayed the 
transfer process as being somewhat rushed and simplistic, involving only making a choice 
on a form. Ms H also says she didnt fully understand what the choices were.
However, as Ive described, the documentation from the time is very persuasive that Ms H 
went through a considered advice process and she was given a transfer analysis and 
suitability report. 
Firstly, the analysis showed her pension could reasonably grow at a rate outside the OPS, in 
a way that made transferring worthwhile. But, in addition to this potential growth, Ms H was 
also able to access around £28,000 in cash (this would be subject to tax or she could have 
added it to her pension pot tax-free). And as she discussed with JLT, this could be used for 
specific purposes at the time such as paying down her mortgage and compensating for her 
partners redundancy. From a financial viability perspective, I therefore consider the advice 
to have been in her best interests.
Some other issues, such as the suitability of the death benefits, and an ability to flexibly 
manage her pension going forward, were less relevant reasons to transfer out in their own 
right. However, none of these appear to me to be unsuitable for her and they certainly dont 
change what I think would have happened anyway. The evidence seems clear that Ms H 
understood what she was being offered and she found accessing the cash enhancement to 
be of use at the time. 
Having considered all these other issues, I think the information Ms H was given was clear, 
fair and not misleading and she had enough on which to make an informed choice.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint. I do not direct JLT Wealth Management Limited to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman