DRN-4365561
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) didnt tell her that she was being charged 
a higher rate of interest on her mortgage because it had been taken out on a self-certification 
basis in 2004. She says she wasnt told until 2022 that a self-certification marker had been 
recorded on her account, and this could have been removed before 2022.
Miss C is also unhappy that BoS didnt agree to a new fixed rate product between 2012 and 
2022.
What happened
Miss C took out a mortgage with BoS in 2004 through an independent broker. The mortgage 
was taken out on a self-certification basis, which Miss C says wasnt properly explained to 
her.
We havent been provided with a copy of the mortgage agreement from 2004, but I 
understand that an initial three-year fixed rate product was agreed, which expired in 2007. 
Following this, Miss C took out a five-year fixed rate product at 6.29%. When this expired in 
2012, Miss Cs mortgage reverted to BoSs Standard Variable Rate (SVR). The mortgage 
remained on BoSs SVR until 2022.
Miss C is unhappy that BoS didnt offer her a new fixed rate product between 2012 and 
2022. She says she asked BoS for a new fixed rate product on numerous occasions after 
her mortgage reverted to its SVR in 2012, including when she was experiencing financial 
difficulty - but BoS repeatedly told her that there were no products available.
Miss C says this continued until March 2016, when she became up to date with her 
payments. She says she was told in 2016 that she could apply for a new rate, but she would 
need to provide proof of income, which she says she couldnt do. So, her mortgage 
remained on BoSs SVR. 
Miss C says she was later told by BoS in 2022 that there was a self-certification marker on 
her account, which was removed. BoS then agreed to a five-year fixed rate product which 
reduced her monthly payments by around £100. Miss C feels strongly that whilst the marker 
was recorded on her account, she was charged a higher interest rate than she would have 
been charged had it not been there.
In March 2022, Miss C complained to BoS that it hadnt told her until 2022 that she had been 
paying a higher interest rate because her mortgage had been taken out on a self-certification 
basis, and a marker had been recorded on her account  which BoS should and could have 
removed sooner than 2022. Miss C also complained that shed previously struggled to make 
her payments, and she felt something should have been done sooner. 
BoS sent responses to Miss C in April and June 2022 explaining that it didnt uphold her 
complaint. In summary, it said Miss Cs broker was responsible for explaining to her the 
appropriateness of taking out the mortgage on a self-certification basis. Further, it didnt 
agree that it should have proactively explained to her what self-certification is during 
conversations they had after the mortgage had been taken out. It also said it wouldnt usually 
remove a self-certification marker unless it was asked to do so.
Unhappy with BoSs responses, Miss C referred her complaint to our Service.
BoS didnt consent to this Service considering Miss Cs complaint because it didnt think a 
complaint had been made within the relevant time limit rules.
Our Investigator looked into whether this Service can consider the complaint. She was 
satisfied that Miss Cs concerns about BoS not telling her until 2022 that she was being 
charged a higher interest rate because her mortgage was taken out on a self-certification 
basis, and her concerns about the marker on her account (Part one of this complaint), had 
been made within the relevant time limit, so this Service can consider it.  
However, she felt that this Service can only consider Miss Cs concern about BoS not 
agreeing to a new fixed rate sooner (Part two of this complaint), during the six-year period 
leading up to Miss C making her complaint to BoS in March 2022. 
Miss C disagreed with the Investigator, so the complaint was passed to me to reach a 
decision on the jurisdiction matter.
In March 2023, I issued a jurisdiction decision confirming that this Service is able to consider 
Part one of Miss Cs complaint. However, we are only able to consider Part two of Miss Cs 
complaint during the six-year period leading up to her making her complaint to BoS in March 
2022.
Since issuing my jurisdiction decision, BoS made an offer to resolve Miss Cs complaint. It 
offered to rework Miss Cs account, applying the lowest interest rates available from 
February 2017 (the earliest point that it says Miss C would have been eligible for a new rate) 
until Miss C made her complaint in 2022. It also offered to pay Miss C £400 for any distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. 
The Investigator considered Part one of Miss Cs complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary, she said she was satisfied that BoS wasnt responsible for the sale of 
Miss Cs mortgage, and she didnt think Miss C had been charged higher rates of interest in 
comparison to BoSs mainstream (standard mortgage) customers. 
She also felt the offer made by BoS was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and she 
didnt think it needed to do anything further.Miss C didnt agree with my jurisdiction decision or the Investigators findings on the merits 
of her complaint. In summary, she said:
I had used subjective rather than objective criteria when deciding when she knew, or 
should reasonably have known, she had cause to complain about not being given a 
fixed rate. 
BoS had provided her the wrong type of mortgage. She feels she should have been 
given a standard fully certified mortgage from the outset, and she says I also reached 
this conclusion in my jurisdiction decision.   
BoS has acted in breach of relevant rules and regulations by not offering her a new 
interest rate product until 2022.
Her account was brought up to date in March 2016.
BoSs offer should go further. Amongst other things, Miss C thinks BoS should apply 
the lowest interest rates that were available from November 2012, when her 
mortgage reverted to the SVR. 
She should be provided with information about BoSs lending policy and criteria. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, Miss Cs complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss C has said in response to my jurisdiction decision. 
However, it hasnt changed my view and I wont be departing from the findings that Ive 
made. 
Miss C has also said that I concluded that she should have been given a standard fully 
certified mortgage from the outset. I didnt reach a finding on this point in my jurisdiction 
decision. My decision solely addressed what parts of the complaint this Service is able to 
consider. 
Miss C has made detailed submissions about the merits of her complaint. Ive read these 
carefully, but my decision will concentrate on the issues that I think are central to the 
outcome of the complaint.
Part one of this complaint.
Miss C has complained that BoS didnt tell her until 2022 that she was being charged a 
higher interest rate because her mortgage was taken out on a self-certification basis, and 
she says there was a marker on her account preventing her from getting a cheaper interest 
rate.In 2004 Miss C took out a mortgage with BoS on a self-certification basis. Self-certification 
was often used before changes to mortgage regulation, but its no longer something lenders 
in the United Kingdom are able to offer. This type of mortgage was aimed at borrowers who 
were unable to prove how much they earn without difficulty, such as those who were self-
employed.
Miss C has told us that she took out her mortgage through a broker, and BoS has provided 
this Service with a copy of the application form from 2004 which confirms this. This also 
shows the option Special Status was selected from the mortgage products listed in the 
application form, which indicates a non-standard mortgage was applied for. 
Having reviewed the information available to me, I havent seen any evidence that shows 
BoS provided Miss C with any advice when she took out the mortgage in 2004, or when she 
agreed to a new product in 2007. It follows that Im not satisfied BoS was responsible for 
assessing the suitability of the mortgage or checking that Miss C understood the terms of the 
mortgage  including any terms relating to self-certification. 
Further, in the circumstances, I wouldnt expect the self-certification basis of the mortgage to 
have been explained to Miss C during the various conversations she had with BoS after 
agreeing to the mortgage, unless she had specifically requested this - and I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that she did. 
Ive taken into consideration Miss Cs view that the self-certification marker should have 
been removed from her account sooner than it was. However, I dont think Miss C has lost 
out as a result of having the marker on the account and I will explain why.
In 2007, upon the expiry of her initial fixed rate product, Miss C took out a five-year fixed rate 
product at the rate of 6.29%. BoS has provided evidence to show that it had offered a two-
year fixed rate product to its mainstream (non-self-certified) customers at 6.29%. However, it 
hadnt offered a five-year fixed rate product to its mainstream customers at that time. I 
understand that following BoSs merger with Halifax, customers could be directed to Halifax 
mortgage products, and Halifax did offer a five-year fixed rate product at that time - but this 
was at a higher rate of 6.99%. Im therefore not persuaded that Miss C would have been 
able to secure a more competitive five-year fixed rate product with BoS at that time had she 
not been considered a self-certification customer. So she wasnt disadvantaged.  
Further, when Miss Cs five-year fixed rate product ended in 2012, the mortgage reverted to 
BoSs SVR. This was BoSs standard reversionary rate, and it didnt differ for self-
certification and mainstream customers. It was exactly the same rate. Miss Cs mortgage 
remained on the SVR until 2022. So, again, she wasnt disadvantaged as a result of the self-
certification marker.
Having carefully considered the information available to me, Im unable to conclude that the 
self-certification marker on Miss Cs account resulted in her being charged higher interest 
rates in comparison to BoSs mainstream customers. It follows that there are no grounds on 
which I can fairly require BoS to compensate Miss C because her mortgage was marked as 
self-certified. Theres no evidence that she has suffered any losses because of it. 
Part two of this complaint
Miss C has complained that BoS should have agreed to a new fixed rate sooner. For the 
reasons Ive set out in my jurisdiction decision, Im only able to consider the events being 
complained about during the six-year period leading up to March 2022 (so from March 
2016).BoS has told us that it hasnt been able to locate any evidence of Miss C asking for a new 
fixed rate in 2016. And in any event, it says Miss C wouldnt have been eligible for a new 
rate in 2016 because her account was in arrears, and it was its policy at that time that 
customers needed to be up to date with payments before a product transfer could proceed. 
BoS has provided evidence to this Service that confirms this was its policy at that time. It 
isnt uncommon for a lender to require a borrower to be up to date with payments before 
agreeing to a new interest rate product. A new fixed rate would usually come with an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC). And taking out a new product which would be subject to an ERC 
upon early repayment may not be in a borrowers best interests if theres a risk the mortgage 
isnt sustainable in the long term. In Miss Cs circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
BoS to want to see that she was able to make the mortgage payments.
Ive noted Miss Cs request to be provided with the detail of BoSs policy. I understand why 
Miss C would like to see this, but our rules allow us to receive information and evidence in 
confidence where appropriate. Im satisfied that its appropriate to do so here, given that 
BoSs policy document is commercially sensitive. Ive gone on to consider whether BoS has 
applied its policy fairly and Im satisfied it has. Ill explain why.
Miss C says she brought her account up to date in March 2016. However, Ive reviewed the 
transaction history for the account, and this shows the arrears werent cleared until             
30 January 2017. The transaction history shows the arrears balance reducing gradually from 
£1,523 on 28 January 2016 to £54 by 29 December 2016  but the final amount wasnt 
cleared until Miss C made a payment on 30 January 2017.
Im therefore satisfied that February 2017 was the earliest point, within the six-year 
timeframe that I can consider, that Miss C would have been eligible to apply for a new rate. It 
follows that I think BoS has applied its policy fairly when determining the earliest point     
Miss C was eligible to apply for a new rate. 
BoS has also provided this Service with a record of a telephone conversation that took place 
with Miss C in January 2017. This details a discussion that took place about the arrears on 
Miss Cs account and her intention to bring the account up to date with her next payment.  
BoS has accepted that it could have told Miss C that she would be eligible to apply for a new 
rate once the account was up to date during this telephone conversation. And because it 
didnt, BoS has offered to rework Miss Cs account, applying the lowest rates available from 
February 2017, when Miss Cs account was brought up to date, until 2022  when Miss C 
secured a fixed rate product. BoS has also offered to pay Miss C £400 for any distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
Ive carefully considered BoSs offer, including its approach for calculating redress, and I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that February 2017 is the earliest point that Miss C was eligible to apply for a 
new rate. Further, Im persuaded from what Miss C has told us that, had she been made 
aware that she would be eligible for a new rate upon clearing the arrears, she would have 
asked for a new rate as soon as she was able to  which was February 2017. So, I agree 
this should be the starting point for calculating redress. Miss C was able to secure a new 
fixed rate product in 2022, so this should be end date for calculating redress.BoS has agreed to rework the account as if its lowest rate had been in place from      
February 2017. It hasnt detailed the type of products it would apply here - but given that 
Miss C has told us that she had wanted a fixed rate product since November 2012, on 
balance, I think this is what she would have agreed to had she known she was eligible to 
apply for a new product in February 2017. So, BoS should apply its lowest fixed rate 
product/s during the relevant period.
Ive also considered the question of interest on the interest reimbursements (if Miss C 
chooses to have the overpayments refunded to her). Each time Miss C has paid more each 
month than she needed to, shes been unfairly deprived of the extra amount. This entitles 
her to interest on each overpayment, from the time it was paid, up to the time it is 
reimbursed. The relevant rate is 8% simple per annum.
Ive also thought about the impact the matter has had on Miss C. I appreciate that making 
unnecessarily high monthly payments and trying to resolve the matter has caused Miss C 
stress and upset. BoS has offered to pay Miss C £400 for any distress and inconvenience it 
has caused, and I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I require Bank of Scotland plc to calculate redress as follows:
Re-work Miss Cs mortgage so that it is as if a BoSs lowest fixed rate had been in 
place from February 2017 to 2022, when Miss C took a new fixed rate.
Give Miss C the choice of either:
a) Having the resulting overpayments between 2017 and 2022 refunded to her, 
adding simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each payment to the 
date of refund; or
b) Having the resulting overpayments used as an overpayment each month, with 
the balance  and interest charged as a result  reduced in subsequent months.
Write to Miss C explaining any changes it has made to her mortgage account.
If Miss C selects option a), BoS may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award, as required by HMRC. But it should tell Miss C what it has deducted so she can 
reclaim the tax if she is entitled to do so.
BoS should also make a separate award of £400 for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused Miss C.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require 
Bank of Scotland plc to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman