DRN-3738600
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against him without due cause. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S received a payment into his personal current account held with 
Barclays for £30,000. Mr S said this payment was a loan from a friend to help him with a 
restaurant he had taken over. He explained there were no formal agreements or plans for 
paying his friend back, and he was just to send money to his friend when he could. Mr S 
then made various payments out of his account including large payments to a number of 
third-party individuals and a large cash withdrawal. He said these transactions included 
£5,000 to help out a friend, £4,000 cash in hand to a builder to do some work on the 
restaurant, £3,000 to his own business account and £3,000 went to a third party which Mr S 
didnt recall the reason for. There were also transactions to retailers. 
Barclays said they received a report from the sending bank that the £30,000 had been 
transferred as the result of a scam. They conducted a review of his account and asked for 
proof of entitlement to the funds. They then decided to close his account and register him 
with Cifas for misuse of facility relating to receiving the fraudulent funds.  
Mr S was unhappy and complained to Barclays. He said the Cifas marker was causing him 
great difficulties as he was unable to open another account. He said he was not involved in 
any fraud, and maintained this was a loan to help him with his business. Barclays reviewed 
their decision, and declined to remove the Cifas marker. They said them deemed the 
information they provided to Cifas as correct and so they would not be asking Cifas to 
remove the marker. They said they closed his account in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. 
As Mr S remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened, and didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be 
upheld. This was because they felt on balance it was most likely that Mr S was complicit in 
receiving fraudulent funds and so Barclays had enough evidence to refer Mr Ss details to 
Cifas. Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He provided some further information 
including two typed documents relating to the loaning of the £30,000, and his loaning of 
£5,000. He also provided a loan agreement, dated September 2020. Our investigator said 
none of this had changed their opinion, and as no agreement could be reached, the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
The type of Cifas marker that Barclays asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  relating 
to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, theyre 
not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe Barclays have sufficient evidence 
to conclude that the money sent to Mr S was as the result of a fraud, and that he was 
deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that it would be able to escalate its concerns to 
Cifas. And having looked at what happened, I think they were entitled to do so. Ill explain 
why. 
I am satisfied the £30,000 that came into Mr Ss account arrived there as the result of a 
fraud. I have reviewed the notes and reports from Barclays and the sending bank, and it is 
clear that the original owner of the funds had lost these funds as the result of a fraud. But 
this alone is not enough for Barclays to register a Cifas marker against Mr S. I also need to 
be satisfied that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in his dealings with these funds  and 
having reviewed everything I am persuaded it is more likely than not that he was. 
The large payment in followed by a series of transfers and withdrawals, including sending 
funds internationally, does look like what one might expect to see on an account being used 
for money mule purposes. And I am not persuaded by what Mr S has told our service about 
the payments in and out of the account. So, on balance, I do not think Mr S has been honest 
with Barclays or our service, and I think he was deliberately dishonest in his dealings with 
these funds. I say this because: 
Mr Ss testimony was that there was no formal agreement or paperwork between 
himself and his loan provider in the first instance. This seemed highly unlikely given 
the size of the payment into the account. He originally said that he was simply to pay 
his friend back as and when he could  which whilst not impossible, would seem to 
me to be a very relaxed attitude when it came to such a large sum of money. 
Further to this, the payment appeared to have a reference that looked like it could be 
someone elses name. Mr S did not appear to question this, or understand why this 
might be the case and simply said he thought it might have something to do with 
another language. 
After our investigator shared their opinion with Mr S, Mr S was able to produce 
paperwork with regard to the £30,000 loan, and a letter purporting to be from the 
person who sent it to him. This included a loan agreement dated back to September 
2020, and a letter purporting to absolve Mr S of any part in, or knowledge of, the 
source of the funds before they were sent to him. It seemed unusual that Mr S was 
able to produce these after our investigator recommended that his complaint not be 
upheld  particularly when I saw no reference to them before our investigator shared 
this. Further, the existence of the agreement contradicted his earlier testimony. 
If Mr S required such a large loan, it seems strange that he so quickly lent £5,000 to 
someone he knew, again without much by the way of a guarantee that he was going 
to get the money back in a particular time frame. 
Mr S said the £4,000 cash withdrawal was to pay a builder to do some repairs after 
there was a leak in his restaurant, but he has not been able to provide any quotes, 
invoices, or written agreements to show that this was the case. This seems highly 
unusual as I would expect the specifics of the work, including the cost, to have been 
worked out and written down. 
There was also a £3,000 payment out which Mr S could not explain in terms of the recipient or the purpose of this payment. This seems highly unusual  he sent ten per 
cent of the loan he received to a third party, who shared a surname with one of his 
other payees, and he does not remember who they are or why he sent the money. 
So, having considered everything here, I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
register Mr S with Cifas for misuse of facility, and so I will not be asking them to do anything 
further in relation to this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman