DRN-2087105
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. Canada Square sold 
Mrs P the policy at the same time that she applied for the card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs P and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The 
online sales process was designed so that the customer had to actively choose 
whether or not they would take PPI. So Mrs P would have realised that there was a 
choice about this. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ps 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was up to Mrs P to decide if it suited her needs. 
It looks as though the information Canada Square gave Mrs P  about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full information about costs and 
benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. The PPI 
could still have paid out for longer than her full sick pay lasted, and it seems she 
didnt have savings to fall back on at the time. And it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs P 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman