DRN-3255785
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. At the end of the agreement the car was inspected and collected, following which 
MBFS asked Mr M to pay damage charges.
Mr M disputed the charges. He said that when the car was inspected the first time, no 
charges were made, but following the second inspection at which he wasnt present, charges 
were applied.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, MBFS reduced some of the charges but said the remainder 
had been applied correctly.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said she didnt think the charges for the 
LHR alloy and RHF alloy were fair, because the damage was less than 50mm.The 
investigator thought the rest of the damage charges had been applied fairly.
MBFS didnt agree. It said the charges for the LHR alloy were fair because the damage 
exceeded what was acceptable under the relevant guidelines.
Our investigator reviewed further images provided by MBFS and changed her mind about 
the LHR alloy and concluded that it was chargeable damage. She said the damage charges 
for the RHF alloy should be refunded.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr M must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. This identifies damage to the alloy 
wheels, the left-hand front tyre, the front bumper, the left-hand rear door and the right-hand 
front door. Looking at the damage identified, and having regard to the relevant guidelines, 
Im satisfied that the majority of the damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear. This is with 
the exception of the damage to the RHF alloy, which appears to be less than 50mm and 
therefore within acceptable wear and tear according to the relevant guidelines.
Ive taken into account what Mr M has said about the first inspection. Hes said that although 
some damage was identified to the front wheels and rear bumper at the first inspection, 
charges werent applied, and he believes the damage was within acceptable wear and tear. 
Mr M has said that there wasnt any damage to the rear doors when the car was first 
inspected, and he believes that the damage occurred in between the first and second 
inspections.
Ive already said that Im satisfied that the damage to the alloys (with the exception of the 
RHF wheel) and the bumper is outside of acceptable wear and tear. In relation to when the 
damage occurred, MBFS has said that its collection partner is under an obligation to report 
any damage which occurs after the car is collected, and that in this case, no damage was 
reported. Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely that the damage 
occurred during the time that Mr M had the car, rather than in the three days between the 
first and second inspections.
Mr M has also raised an issue about the second inspection, at which he wasnt present. I 
can see that when MBFS sent the booking confirmation for the first inspection to Mr M, it 
advised him that after collection, the car would go through a  second inspection at the MBFS 
de-fleet centre. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr M was made aware that a 
second inspection would take place.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold the complaint. To put things right, MBFS should 
refund the charges for the RHF alloy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must refund the charge for the damage to the RHF alloy. The remainder of the 
charges have been fairly applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman