DRN-3907440
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] has handled 
a claim hes made on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to Mr B 
and RSA includes respective agents or representatives unless specified otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr B has a home emergency insurance policy to provide cover for certain risks 
relating to his boiler. The policy is underwritten by RSA and so its responsible for this 
complaint.
Mr B reported problems with his boiler - which had resulted in in no hot water and no 
central heating - to RSA. 
RSA arranged for someone to call the same day to look at the problem but Mr B says 
they didnt turn up and over the next few days he had to make repeated calls to RSA 
to chase for progress and resolution of the issue. He says he dealt with six different 
contractors before the problem was resolved and was unhappy he had to pay a £95 
call out fee after the poor service he experienced.
He complained to RSA but it didnt provide a full response, only referring him to this 
Service. He raised a complaint with us and our Investigator asked RSA to provide its 
side of the story but it didnt respond despite reminders.
Based on the information Mr B had provided, the Investigator upheld the complaint 
and awarded £150 compensation to recognise the impact of RSAs failings on Mr B. 
RSA didnt respond to his findings, so the case has been given to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This Service invited RSA to submit evidence and comments in support of its position 
on 24 November 2022. Our Investigator issued a reminder to RSA on 12 December 
2022 and said, if nothing was received, he would reach his conclusions based on the 
evidence he did have. 
He issued his findings on 22 December 2022 and asked Mr B and RSA for 
comments. Mr B accepted the recommended settlement but RSA didnt respond. So, 
the Investigator gave the parties one further chance to submit comments, explaining 
that he would put the case before an Ombudsman for a final decision once the 
deadline expired, which it now has.
Overall, Im satisfied RSA has had ample time to provide any comments and 
evidence it wished to. In the absence of it doing so, I have little option other than to 
reach my decision on the basis of the limited evidence available to me.
Mr B explained he first reported the boiler problem to RSA on 1 May 2022 and was 
promised a same day visit by an engineer. No-one arrived by the agreed time so he 
chased RSA and was told another engineer would attend but they also didnt arrive.
After further contact with RSA, a new appointment was booked for the next day but 
when the engineer arrived he didnt know about Mr Bs type of boiler. Eventually, 
having sought advice from a colleague, the engineer concluded the printed circuit 
board needed replacing. This needed ordering and fitting by another engineer but the 
earliest appointment was on the sixth day after Mr B originally reported the problem. 
Mr B was without hot water and heating during this time until the problem was fixed. 
Mr B has explained that, due to his age, he feels the cold and this period of time with 
no heating was unpleasant for him. He was also unhappy about being unable to 
attend to personal hygiene in the absence of hot water. He found the repeated calls 
to RSA and dealing with six of its agents very stressful too. Its clear to me Mr B has 
been let down by RSAs poor service and delays.
I think RSA should pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
through its poor service and delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman