DRN-3724084
The complaint
Mr P complains about a mortgage he has with Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor 
Mortgages (Topaz). He believes that at the time of taking out the mortgage there was a 
secret commission payment made between the lender and the broker. And that as this was 
secret, he is entitled to rescind the loan agreement and have all the repayments hes made 
refunded to him. 
What happened
In and around April 2005 Mr P was looking to take out a mortgage. The mortgage was 
originally with a company I shall refer to here as N and was arranged by a broker, who I will 
refer to as A. A wrote to Mr P on 12 April 2005 thanking Mr P for choosing A as his advisor 
and enclosed a copy of a mortgage illustration that was produced on 8 April 2005. 
The mortgage illustration refers to a number of details and features of the proposed 
mortgage, including that Mr P was looking to borrow £115,000, over 20 years with a flexible 
tracker rate for an initial five-year period of the mortgage. Amongst other things, in section 8 
it refers to What fees must you pay? and includes a £695 arrangement fee, £460 valuation 
fee, £95 additional borrowing fee and £300 lenders conveyancing fee. It also notes that You 
may have to pay other taxes or costs in addition to any fees shown here. 
Section 13 of the illustration refers to Using a mortgage intermediary and indicates that N will 
pay the mortgage broker/intermediary a fee of £347.37 if you take out this mortgage. All 
applications received which continue through to completion will qualify for a special bonus of 
£200. 
On 27 April 2005 N wrote to Mr P with the offer of a loan and this set out the details of the 
mortgage being offered. This referred to the £115,790 being borrowed, which included the 
£695 arrangement fee and £95 additional borrowing fee being added to the amount 
borrowed, as set out in the illustration. The term of the mortgage was over 20 years and the 
initial five-year tracker rate was set out. What fees that may be payable are again listed, also 
in section 8, and refer to a £250 administration fee, £210 valuation fee, £790 arrangement 
fee and £302.20 solicitor/conveyancer fee. The illustration also notes that, You may have to 
pay other taxes or costs in addition to any fees shown here.
Section 13 again refers to using a mortgage intermediary and that N will make payments of 
£23 and £595 in cash and / or benefits if you take out this mortgage in full.
Mr P took further borrowing through N but I understand this was arranged directly with N, 
rather than through a broker or intermediary. 
Mr P complained to Topaz about the mortgages and that he believed there to have been 
secret commission that was paid by N to the broker for arranging the mortgage. Mr P 
referred to several well-known, in this area, court judgments that relate to secret or 
undisclosed commission to support his argument and belief that he was entitled to redress.  
Topaz responded to Mr Ps complaint and, in summary, highlighted that the commission was 
not secret and as Mr P had referred to in his complaint, had been disclosed at the time of 
taking out the mortgage in April 2005. Mr P remained unhappy with the response to his 
complaint and referred it to our service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. 
They considered what Topaz and Mr P had said and provided and the investigator ultimately 
concluded that there were insufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. Again in summary, 
this was because they were satisfied that any commission payments were disclosed to Mr P 
at the time and were not therefore secret. 
Mr P did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by and ombudsman. Amongst other things, Mr P referred to the documentation 
from the time of the sale and that no specific mention of commission was made in any 
document. Mr P noted the £695 arrangement fee he was required to pay N was different to 
the amounts shown that would be payable by N to the broker  suggesting that there was a 
secret payment of some sort that would have been paid. Mr P maintains his belief that there 
was a secret or undisclosed commission payment between N and A. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been referred to me for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, for what 
are broadly the same reasons. I do not consider there to be sufficient grounds to uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. 
Mr Ps complaint is essentially that when he arranged his mortgage in 2005 there was a 
payment of commission between N and A, and that payment was secret or undisclosed to 
him. Mr P has referred to several court judgments that refer to the payment of secret or 
undisclosed commission and how this might impact on the relationship between lender and 
broker when arranging a loan or mortgage. 
I do not consider it necessary to refer to those judgments in detail here, other than to 
highlight what is in my view a significant difference between the circumstances of the court 
judgments and when Mr P took out his mortgage in 2005. That difference being that the 
judgments deal with the non-disclosed or secret commission, where it was not clear to the 
consumer what amounts of commission were being paid to the parties involved in the 
transactions. However, in Mr Ps case, the evidence details what payments would be made 
between N and A, for A arranging the mortgage on behalf of Mr P. I appreciate the word 
commission is not specifically referred to, but I am satisfied this payment would likely be 
considered a commission payment. 
The mortgage illustration Mr P received from A specifically refers to the monetary amount 
that A would receive from N for arranging the mortgage. And, the mortgage offer Mr P 
received from N also specifically refers to the monetary amount N would pay A. Im satisfied 
that Mr P received these documents as these are documents he submitted with his 
complaint and he refers to finding them while looking through some old papers. 
I note that the amounts referred to in the mortgage illustration and offer differ slightly, but I 
have not seen anything to indicate that N paid more than the £595 referred to in the 
mortgage offer. From the evidence presented in this case Im satisfied on balance that any 
commission payment made between N and A for arranging Mr Ps 2005 mortgage was 
disclosed at the time and before Mr P commenced the mortgage. As it was disclosed, had Mr P had any questions or concerns about the commission payment this could have been 
raised and discussed at the time. I havent seen anything however to indicate this was 
discussed at all at the time. 
As the commission payment was disclosed to Mr P in 2005 the circumstances here differ 
significantly to those set out in the court judgments Mr P refers to. And Im not persuaded the 
findings in those court judgments have any direct impact on my decision here. 
I have carefully considered what Mr P has said about the £695 arrangement fee that he was 
required to pay N and that this amount was different to the amounts N said it would pay A in 
the mortgage illustration and offer. The arrangement fee however was something Mr P was 
required to pay N for arranging the mortgage and I have seen nothing to indicate that N 
would pay A some or all of this payment. So it would not in my view be considered a form of 
commission for A as it would not have received any of the payment.   
I have also noted that Mr P has highlighted the sections in the mortgage illustration and offer 
that refer to the possibility that he may have to pay other taxes or costs. This does not 
however refer to, nor is it intended to, mean any other commission payments that would be 
made by N to A. This wording is typically used to ensure that when taking out a mortgage for 
a house purchase, applicants are made aware of other costs. These may be directly related 
to the mortgage process or outside the mortgage application. It is simply intended to 
highlight that the fees or costs listed are not an exhaustive list and depending on the 
circumstances, other costs that arent listed might be required in the mortgage application or 
house purchase process. 
As referred to above, the 2005 mortgage was the first borrowing that Mr P had with N and 
was the only one that involved a third party or intermediary to arrange the mortgage on Mr 
Ps behalf. It appears that subsequent borrowing was arranged directly with N and without a 
third party or intermediary. This appears to be accepted by Mr P and as no broker or 
intermediary was involved in subsequent mortgages, there is nothing further to consider 
around any payments being made to other parties. 
Ultimately, having considered the specific circumstances of Mr Ps complaint Im not 
persuaded he has been treated unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the payment of any 
commission between N and A at the time the 2005 mortgage was arranged. This is because 
any commission or remuneration between N and A appears to have been disclosed at the 
time and would not therefore be considered secret or undisclosed. 
I appreciate Mr P will remain unhappy with the outcome I have reached here, but there are 
insufficient grounds for me to uphold his complaint. Nor are there any grounds therefore to 
direct Topaz to write off any amounts still owed by Mr P, or refund what he has already 
repaid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Topaz Finance Limited 
trading as Heliodor Mortgages. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman