DRN-3134073
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund transactions she says she did not 
make or authorise. 
What happened
Ms A is disputing transactions made on her account between 29 August 2017 and 30 
December 2020. Ms A originally told us that her ex-partner, who I will refer to as M, stole 
over £7,000 of her savings while they were living together. Shes said that he used her card 
to pay for subscriptions, holidays and other purchases that she didnt authorise. During the 
course of our investigation, Ms A says she discovered other transactions she didnt authorise 
and now disputes over 500 transactions totalling over £30,000.
Ms As relationship with M started in early 2017 and ended in August 2020. As I understand 
it, M was Ms As carer while they were in a relationship. Ms As sister, and representative in 
this case, says M took care of the finances whilst they were in a relationship. The 
representative also explained that Ms A is easily influenced.
Ms A told us that M set up online banking without her permission in 2019 and transferred 
funds to his own account. Ms A has said she wouldnt be able to set up online banking 
herself as she has dyslexia.
Ms A says that she didnt disclose any of her details to M or authorise him to make
these transactions. To access Ms As phone, a password is required; M knew her phone 
password. Ms A thinks M set up her online banking on his own phone. 
Ms A told us her card was usually kept in her bag and M was aware of this. However, Ms A 
says she never actually gave M her card. Ms A says she did lose her cards on many 
occasions and therefore needed to order replacement cards. Ms A says it may have been 
possible that M gained access to her card. Ms A says her PIN wasnt written down anywhere 
and M didnt know her PIN, but he could have watched her enter it. 
Ms A didnt notice the transactions until quite sometime after they happened. She says, this 
is because she doesnt open her paper statements as she needs her familys help reading 
these.  She says she calls the bank for any payments she carries out. 
Lloyds believes the disputed online transactions were completed by Ms A herself or she 
gave M authority to do so. It says Ms A has been registered for internet banking since 2014. 
Lloyds says Ms A originally told it she does have online banking but later said that shes 
never used it and didnt set it up. It said Ms A confirmed that she authorised a £4,000 
transaction to her other bank account - which Lloyds says was completed using online 
banking. Lloyds feels Ms As testimony is inconsistent. 
Lloyds also told us that text messages explaining that a new payee was successfully set up 
were sent to Ms As genuine mobile number. It said transactions, which Ms A confirmed as 
being genuine, were completed on the same device used to complete the disputed activity. It 
explained these transactions were authenticated using biometrics; fingerprint/facial security. 
Lloyds says the device used to complete the disputed activity was registered on 24 May 
2019.
Lloyds also declined Ms As claim for the disputed card activity. Its said her PIN has
been self-selected and remained the same for all cards issued in 2020. Its said that
Ms A regularly checked her balance using ATMs, telephone banking and Lloyds
interactive voice response system. It has questioned why she didnt report the disputed 
transactions sooner.
Lloyds said it will consider any unauthorised payments brought to its attention within 13 
months from when Ms A made contact about the disputed activity.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt we could only consider the 
transactions within 13 months from when Ms A disputed the activity. She also considered the 
electronic records provided by Lloyds, suggest Ms A had access to online banking and knew 
about the transactions at the time. She considered the transactions were in line with Ms As 
usual spending. Overall, she felt it was more likely than not that Ms A authorised and 
benefited from the transactions she was disputing.
Ms A did not accept the investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, broadly for the same 
reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
From what Ms A has said she has been taken advantage of financially and Im deeply sorry 
if that is the case. But my role isnt to determine whether Ms A has been the victim of a 
crime. My role is to determine whether Lloyds is entitled to hold Ms A responsible for the 
disputed spending that occurred. 
Can Lloyds hold Ms A liable for the disputed transactions? 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, of 
particular importance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Ms A disputes. 
The PSR 2009 applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017 
apply to transactions made on or after that date. According to PSR 2017 Regulation 74 (PSR 2009 Regulation 59), a payment service user is 
entitled to redress only if it notifies the payment service provider without undue delay, and in 
any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any 
unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction.
Looking at Lloyds account terms and conditions, on page 25 it says:
Except for direct debits or payments made using an overdraft, we will not refund the
payment if you tell us more than 13 months after it was made that the payment was not
made properly or was unauthorised.
The transactions between August 2017 and April 2020 all took place more than 13
months before Ms A contacted Lloyds to dispute them on 25 May 2021. Ms A says she didnt 
notice the transactions until much later. She says she didnt check her bank statements 
because she needs her familys help with this. But Lloyds has provided evidence to show 
that Ms A completed multiple balance enquiries before she reported the transactions to 
Lloyds, suggesting she ought reasonably to have reported them sooner. So, I dont think 
Lloyds decision not to refund these payments is unreasonable given the time thats passed. 
Turning to the transactions from May 2020 onwards, among other things the PSR 2017 
includes the following: 
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains: 
(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to (a) the execution of the 
payment transaction; or (b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that 
payment transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Ms A made the disputed transactions herself or 
authorised for them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask Lloyds to refund 
them. But Ms A has been very clear that she does not consider the transactions in dispute 
were authorised by her. She has explained that she did not make them herself and she did 
not know that the transactions were being made. But Im sorry to have to tell Ms A that this 
doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are unauthorised and that they should be 
refunded to her.
It is possible for Ms A to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on her behalf, 
so that she would be responsible for them, even if she didnt physically make the 
transactions herself or give her explicit permission for them. Lloyds can hold Ms A 
responsible for any spending that happened because she gave someone her permission to 
act on her behalf. This is what is known as apparent authority. If a payer has enabled the 
use of their payment instruments by a third party, so that it looks to the bank like the 
payment transaction has been authorised by the payer, the payment can be considered 
authorised for the purposes of the PSRs.
In her initial claim, Ms A disputed a number of online transactions made by faster payment to 
M and a number of other payees.  The evidence Lloyds has provided indicates on line 
transaction were made through the same device that Ms A had registered with Lloyds on 24 
May 2019. Although, it does not have all the records due to the passage of time. The 
evidence also indicates that transactions Ms A confirmed to Lloyds as genuine were made 
from the same device as the disputed ones. Both disputed and undisputed transactions were done via biometric (finger print). As part of her initial complaint, Ms A told Lloyds that M 
never had access to her phone.
Ms A later said that M must have set up her mobile banking on his phone. But from what I 
can see only one device was registered and used for mobile banking. And this was the same 
mobile number as Ms A has set up for her complaint with this service. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Ms As mobile phone was used for the transactions in question.
During a call between Lloyds and Ms A on 27 May 2019, Ms A confirmed a £4,000 online 
transaction to her other bank account was genuine. Furthermore, she explained during the 
call that she had done the transaction online via internet banking. When asked about what 
device she used for internet banking, Ms A confirmed that she used her other phone and 
computer. Whilst Ms A later denies ever using internet banking; this evidence suggests 
otherwise.
I would expect Ms As testimony to remain consistent and it hasnt. This causes me to 
question the credibility Im able to attach to Ms As testimony.
Ms A says she never gave M authority to make these payments - although I note he was her 
carer and took care of the finances whilst they were in a relationship. So it doesnt seem 
implausible to me that she might have given him authority in these circumstances  even if it 
extended beyond what she had originally agreed.
On balance, I think it more likely than not, that Ms A authorised these transactions or gave 
authority for M to make them on her behalf.
The card payments did not form part of Ms As original complaint to Lloyds. If Ms A didnt 
authorise these transactions, I find it strange that she didnt report them immediately. I 
appreciate Ms A says that she doesnt view her paper statements, but Lloyds has been able 
to evidence balance and other enquires were made frequently during the course of the 
disputed transactions. 
In the course of our investigation, Ms A provided the investigator with two copies of her bank 
statements; highlighting the disputed transactions on each copy. However, there were 
differences between the transactions highlighted on one copy and the other. In another list, 
Ms A provided to the investigator, she highlighted transactions that occurred before her 
relationship with M started. I understand Ms A suffers from a mental illness which means she 
is impulsive, but it seems Ms A is not entirely sure herself which transactions she claims 
werent authorised. 
Ms A also highlighted transactions to a television streaming service as ones she is disputing 
making herself but had previously confirmed to Lloyds during a call on 19 September 2020, 
that she did use this service and those transactions were her. Again, these inconsistencies 
cause me to question the credibility Im able to attach to Ms As testimony.
Some of the disputed transactions were done on a card issued to Ms A after her relationship 
had ended using the cards Chip and Pin. During a call with Lloyds Ms A confirmed she had 
not seen M  so there was no point of compromise for this card.
For example, the evidence shows a £1.60 disputed supermarket transaction on 13 October 
2020 was completed using the contactless microchip. The chip of the genuine card was 
used - so the person making the transaction had the card with them. The transaction took 
place just under two minutes before a genuine or undisputed transaction at the same 
supermarket. Not only did this transaction take place sometime after Ms As relationship 
with M had ended, it was with a new card that had been issued after the relationship had ended. Ms A confirmed to Lloyds that she didnt see M anymore during a call in early 2021. 
If M had taken the card from Ms A he would need to have been in the supermarket, taken it 
from her to make the transaction and return it to her without her noticing in a very short 
space of time  before she made the genuine transaction.
Many of the disputed transactions are in line with other similar transactions that havent been 
disputed by Ms A. As the investigator mentioned  Ms A would likely have benefited from 
many of the card transactions that shes disputing. Again, if M was acting as Ms As carer 
and in charge of their finances, its also not unreasonable to think he was completing these 
transactions on her behalf. 
Im also mindful that the banks terms and conditions explain that Ms A has a responsibility 
to keep her payment credentials safe. The terms say Ms A should not give them to anyone 
else or let anyone else use them. If someone is able to take money from an account 
because payment credentials have not been kept secret, the bank is unlikely to be able to 
refund the money. This is the position even if an account holder has shared details with 
someone close to them that they thought they could trust.
From what I have seen, I think the bank can fairly treat the disputed spending as being 
authorised, even though its possible Ms A gave M authority, at least for initial transactions 
and M spent more than Ms A agreed he could and in circumstances they had not discussed.
Should Lloyds have done more to protect Ms A from financial harm? 
Ive thought about whether Lloyds should have done more to protect Ms A from financial 
harm. 
The starting point is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
But there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Ive thought about the transactions that are in dispute and whether there were any reasons 
why it would have been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances to have expected 
Lloyds to have double checked payment instructions with Ms A before allowing the 
payments to be made. Having done so, I dont think the activity on Ms As accounts ought to 
have alerted the bank that something was wrong, and Im not persuaded that Lloyds has 
missed obvious opportunities where it would have been prudent to further intervene. 
As Ive explained, Id expect Lloyds to be on the lookout for out of character or unusual 
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where its customer might be at risk of financial 
harm. But at the same time, Lloyds cant be involved in every transaction. Ive looked 
carefully at Ms As account statements and for the most part, the pattern of spending across 
her accounts did not stand out as particularly out of character, especially as the transactions 
in dispute took place over a long period of time. There are multiple transactions back and 
forth between Ms A and M  the same known payee. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have 
intervened in the day to day running of Ms As accounts to the extent that would have been 
required to discover the patterns she now claims. I think it is also worth noting that around 
the same time as the transactions out to M, there are very similar payments coming in from 
M often referenced as for a friend or holiday money.Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly 
criticise Lloyds for processing the disputed payments. I dont think the transactions should 
have aroused suspicion that Ms A was being taken advantage of, or that Lloyds missed clear 
indicators that Ms A was at risk of financial harm. I can only compel Lloyds to refund money 
if it I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. But as I dont think Lloyds should have done 
anything more in light of the information available to it at the relevant time, I cant hold the 
bank responsible and direct it to return the money thats been sent.
There is no legal obligation for Lloyds to reimburse the funds. But it remains good practice 
for Lloyds to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be appropriate 
to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in situations 
where it is clear that its customer has been the victim of financial abuse. Lloyds has 
considered the difficult situation Ms A is facing but concluded not to do anything further in 
this particular case. I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot 
fairly compel Lloyds to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not 
say that it should.
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Ms A. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman