DRN-2751010
The complaint
Mr W complains Eversure Limited have unfairly charged him for an amendment on his 
roadside assistance policy.
What happened
On 5 January 2020 Mr W took out a roadside assistance policy with Eversure. In 
December 2020 Mr W paid to renew his policy on 5 January 2021.
On 7 February 2021 Mr W told Eversure hed just exchanged his car for a different one and 
asked them to update their records to show the correct car. Eversure replied, and said theyd 
done that, and charged Mr W a mid-term adjustment fee of £7.50.
The next day Mr W asked Eversure not to automatically renew his policy when it next ends, 
as he didnt think charging £7.50 to change the car registration was fair. Mr W also asked 
what level of cover he had because he didnt think it was clear in the policy terms whether it 
was silver or platinum cover. Eversure replied and said the fee is part of their standard 
terms. They added he had platinum cover, and all the details were shown on the documents 
theyd sent to him.
Mr W asked how can a certificate that quotes two different levels of cover in two different 
sections of the same certificate not be an error  and he asked for a refund of the £7.50 fee 
and compensation for pointing out the errors in the certificate. 
Eversure replied and said the platinum cover is set out as the cover he has. And in the table, 
it shows the platinum cover builds on the gold and silver cover they offer. They explained if 
Mr W wasnt happy with their response, he could now contact us to look into things. 
Mr W got in touch with our service and said he thought the certificate seems to contradict 
itself as it shows all the cover options. He said he didnt raise this initially as he read it and all 
the other documents and thought he understood them. He added that the Terms of Business 
document said, regarding policy amendments, the fee for a mid-term adjustment only 
applied when changing the cover or extending the time of the policy. 
One of our investigators considered things but overall felt Eversure had explained things 
clearly, and that theyd charged the fee fairly.
Mr W didnt agree, saying being charged twice is wrong and changing his registration 
number is less than seven keystrokes. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Have Eversure made it clear enough to Mr W what level of cover he had
Ive looked at the information provided by Eversure and Mr W to determine this.
The certificate issued on 5 January 2021 has a box on the top right corner which specifically 
sets out the type of cover Mr W has. And then theres a large table in the main body of it to 
provide more detail on the different levels of cover.
The box in the top right of Mr Ws certificate says its a platinum policy that hes got. And, in 
the large table there are headings for silver, gold and platinum cover. And under each one it 
sets out the type of cover offer for each section. The gold section says it includes 
everything listed in the silver section  and lists out an extra benefit of this section. And then 
the platinum section, which is what Mr W had, says it includes everything in the gold section, 
plus an additional three elements of cover.
Having reviewed things, Im satisfied this was sufficiently clear for Mr W to know what type of 
cover he had  so I dont require Eversure to compensate Mr W as hes asked.
Have Eversure charged the mid-term adjustment fee fairly
Mr W has said he understood this only applied if he was changing the level of cover or 
extending the policy term from reading the Terms of Business. So, Ive looked at those to 
see what they say.
The Terms of Business explain, under the heading of Payment for our services, that theyll 
charge Mr W for mid-term adjustments and a £7.50 fee. The terms also say We reserve the 
right to collect any balances resulting from any midterm adjustments from the card held on 
file.
As the policy had started a month earlier, and Mr W was changing the car registration, it 
seems reasonable to me that Eversure have charged their mid-term adjustment fee. So, I 
wont be asking them to repay it.
Ive also noted Mr Ws comment about being charged twice. But the evidence Ive seen 
shows hes been charged for taking out the policy, and the mid-term adjustment. So, I dont 
require Eversure to do anything further on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman