DRN-2842479
The complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim on the five-year 
warranty he took out for his sofa. 
What happened
In December 2017, Mr B brought a new reclining sofa. He opted to take out a five-year 
warranty which covered him for accidental staining and accidental damage, and paid an 
additional premium for an optional benefit of being covered for defects and failures of 
manual or electrical recliner actions.
The sofa was delivered in April 2018. In September 2020, Mr B made a claim. He said the 
recliner had stopped working and there was a knocking noise coming from the seat. In 
addition, the leather had ripped underneath, and foam was coming out. And the leather on 
the seats and armrests had faded in places.
Amtrust arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa and then implemented a repair to the 
recliner. But after testing the leather, it said the faded areas were a result of hair or body oils, 
which is excluded under the policy.
Mr B complained. He said the recliner was still failing and the knocking noise continued. And 
he was unhappy that the ripped and faded leather hadnt been repaired. Amtrust declined 
the complaint. Its final response letter doesnt address all the faults reported and merely 
says the policy doesnt cover defects and failures of manual or electrical recliner actions.
As Mr B wasnt happy with this response, he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said that as Mr B had paid the additional premium, he was entitled to the 
optional benefit for repairs to the broken recliner. And that if Amtrusts repair had failed, it 
should assess the issues again. But he didnt think Amtrust needed to do anything more in 
regard to the faded leather.
Whilst both parties accepted this outcome, Mr B has told us that Amtrust has failed to
comply with our investigators recommendations. So the case was passed to me for a
final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said:
As Mr B complains about several faults with the sofa, Ill address each point individually.
Recliner
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs warranty say that if he chooses to pay an additional 
premium  which he did  hell receive the optional benefit under clause 1.5. This says 
theres cover for the costs of repairing defects to and/or the failure of manual or electric 
recliner actions. So Mr B was covered for this.
It appears Amtrust initially accepted that Mr B had this additional cover, as it arranged for a 
technician to inspect the sofa and repairs were carried out. But when Mr B advised that the 
repair had failed, Amtrust sought to rely on an exclusion under clause 3.6 which says theres 
no cover for any damage that is related to thefailure of theinternal mechanism of the 
insured itemwith the exception of the mechanisms as described in 1.5 above.
Amtrust has confirmed to us that Mr B paid the additional premium and as such, Im satisfied 
the above exclusion doesnt apply to him. This is because the recliner is a mechanism 
covered under clause 1.5, which Mr B has the benefit of under his extended cover.
From the information Ive seen, Amtrust is liable for Mr Bs claim for a repair to the broken 
recliner and knocking noise that hes experiencing. Should Amtrust be unable to repair the 
defects, or it considers it uneconomical to do so, the warranty states that it will offer a new 
replacement or a cash settlement. So Amtrust needs to arrange a repair or, if thats not 
possible, a replacement sofa or a cash settlement.
Faded leather
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs warranty says it will cover the costs of repairing 
accidental damage to insured items resulting in stains. It goes on to set out what types of 
stains it covers. And under clause 3 headed exclusions, it sets out what it wont cover. 
Clause 3.1.G says theres no cover for damage, soiling or staining caused by perspiration, 
hair and natural body oils transferred from the hair or skin. Because of this, Amtrust 
declined this part of the claim.
Part of Mr Bs claim related to the colour of the leather fading in various places. Amtrust 
arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa, who did tests on the leather in both the faded 
and unfaded parts. The outcome of these tests, as set out in the technicians report, is that 
the likely cause of the colour fading is head grease and/or body oils. Ive thought about 
whether Amtrusts decision is fair in the circumstances. And based on what Ive seen, I think 
it is. This is because Amtrust has taken expert advice which was based on tests carried out 
on the leather.
I appreciate Mr B doesnt agree with this decision. He says the faded leather is in places 
where he doesnt put his head, so he doesnt believe its caused by head grease. But I can 
see from the photos that the fading does appear on parts of the sofa where his head or skin 
would rest, and so I dont think its unlikely that it could be as a result of body oils. If Mr B 
doesnt agree, hes entitled to fund an expert opinion of his own. And if it concludes that 
something else has caused the leather to fade  and its something the policy would cover  
Id expect Amtrust to reconsider the claim. But on the evidence it has obtained, Amtrusts 
decision on this point is in line with the policy terms and is fair.
Ripped leather
The final part of Mr Bs claim was for ripped leather to the underneath of the sofa. He said 
foam is coming out. I cant see that Amtrust has addressed this part of the claim. And there 
doesnt appear to be any mention of it in the technicians report.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs warranty says that it will cover the costs of repairing 
accidental damageresulting in rips, tears. As this appears to be something the policy 
provides for, Amtrust should consider this part of the claim.
SummaryFrom the information Ive been provided with, Im not satisfied that Amtrust has dealt with 
Mr Bs claim fairly. I say this because it has declined to cover mechanical defects which Mr B 
paid an additional premium to be covered for. And it has failed to address the ripped leather 
claim.
The claim hasnt been dealt with correctly and as a result Mr B has been put to unnecessary 
trouble. In light of this and the amount of time Mr B has waited for his claim to be dealt with 
appropriately, I intend to award compensation of £150.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Reinspect the problems with the recliner and implement a further repair. If the issues 
cant be repaired, or its uneconomical to do so, Amtrust should pay for a 
replacement or provide a cash settlement in line with the warrantys terms.
Consider the claim for ripped leather.
Pay Mr B compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Replies to the provisional decision
Amtrust has accepted the provisional decision and has no further comments to add.
Mr B has provide some further comments. He says:
the knocking noise is coming from the sofa;
a hole is now developing where the fading is; and
there is fading all over and the engineer only inspected the fading on the areas of the 
head and arms.
Hes provided some further photos showing the condition of the sofa.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B says the fading is more widespread and theres now a hole appearing. 
The photos hes provided do appear to show this. But I think its important to remember what 
the policy covers  which is accidental damage that causes stains, or certain other damage 
such as rips and tears. And as well as the exclusion for damage caused by perspiration, 
hair and natural body oils, the policy also excludes damage caused by wear and tear or 
something that happens gradually over a period of time. So the fact there is other fading 
doesnt necessarily mean thats covered by the policy, if it has happened gradually or is due 
to wear and tear. Mr B would need to show the damage is caused by the something thats 
covered under the policy terms. 
As I explained in the provisional decision, Amtrust arranged for an inspection and its 
decision was based on the inspection report. If Mr B obtains another expert report which 
shows that fading or other damage is caused by something thats covered by the policy, Id 
expect Amtrust to reconsider that. But in the absence of this, Amtrusts decision on this 
aspect of the claim is in line with the policy terms and is fair. The further comments from 
Mr B havent caused me to reach a different conclusion. 
So it remains my view that Amtrust hasnt dealt with Mr Bs claim fairly in respect of these 
two points:
it should not have declined to cover mechanical defects when Mr B paid to be covered for this, and
it has failed to address the ripped leather claim.
Putting things right
To put things right Amtrust needs to: 
Reinspect the problems with the recliner and implement a further repair. If the issues 
cant be repaired, or its uneconomical to do so, Amtrust should pay for a 
replacement or provide a cash settlement in line with the warrantys terms.
Consider the claim for ripped leather.
Pay Mr B compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the decision and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to take the 
actions set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman