DRN-2558452
The complaint
Mr B complains about a whole of life insurance policy sold to him in 1999 by Zurich 
Assurance Ltd.
Mr B is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mr B.
What happened
In 1999 Zurich sold Mr B a whole of life insurance policy. The last payment toward the policy 
was made in early 2006 and it lapsed soon after.
In 2020 Mr B complained to Zurich saying the policy was unsuitable. He said that no 
alternative polices were discussed, the premium was a heavy commitment, with four children 
he wasnt able to save, and also that the plan lapsed with no value
Zurich looked at what Mr B said but thought the policy was suitable at the time. They said 
that Mr B was looking for financial security for his family and the recommendation was 
reasonable. They also said there was no obligation to record any alternatives discussed, that 
Mr B had chosen a more expensive premium than the one recommended and that the 
primary purpose of the policy was to provide cover and not as an investment. Mr B remained 
unhappy so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought the policy was suitable 
and that Mr B was given clear information about how it worked. Mr B disagreed and raised 
some further points which our investigator considered, however they still thought the policy 
was suitable. Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale took place in 1999 which is some 21 years ago, and the policy lapsed some 15 
years ago. Its therefore not surprising that Zurich doesnt have a full record of what 
happened when the policy was sold. In situations like this I must come to a decision on the 
balance of probabilities as to what I think is most likely to have happened.
At the time of the sale Mr B was in his early 30s and married with four children. He was self 
employed with an income of £2,000 a month, living in a rental property and he had no 
existing life or critical illness cover in place but he did have some savings. His top two 
financial planning priorities were recorded as protecting family against his death and critical 
illness. He said he had a maximum budget of £100 per month for cover.
Zurich recommended a life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £50,000 and a 
monthly premium of £72.29. When the policy was underwritten and rated by the product 
provider the premium was increased to £104.32 per month. Mr B was given the option of 
lowering the sum assured and keeping the original premium or paying the higher premium 
for £50,000 worth of cover as originally discussed. Mr B decided to pay the higher monthly 
premium. 
Mr B says the premium was a heavy commitment and he was unable to save, and that might 
be true. However a lower premium was recommended which was below his budget, and it 
was Mr B who chose to pay the higher premium. Also the lower premium wouldve lessened 
the effect of any premium increases in the future. So I think the original advice was suitable 
in terms of affordability. 
Looking at Mr Bs situation at the time Im happy the policy was suitable. It covered his two 
needs of critical illness and death cover which would provide protection for his family. The 
recommended premium was within his budget and in the absence of any other cover it 
provided for his family should he become critically ill or pass away. 
Considering Mr Bs level of income, and that he was sole income earner in the family, I dont 
think a sum assured of £50,000 was unreasonable. 
Mr B says there is no evidence of other alternatives, such as term cover, being discussed. A 
term policy however might be more suitable for covering a mortgage; which Mr B didnt have. 
As he was the only income earner in the family I think its fair that the policy was set up to 
cover him for life rather than a specific term which may have left his family without protection 
when the term ended. 
The recommendation document from the time says that the policy was chosen as it provided 
the cover Mr B wanted for the longest long-term cost. And whilst I cant be sure what was 
discussed I think the word chosen implies that there were other policies which the advisor 
couldve discussed and recommended. So whilst theres no evidence of other alternatives, 
ultimately Im happy this policy was suitable, and Im also not sure what other policies 
wouldve been more suitable.
Mr B doesnt feel how the policy worked was fully explained to him when it was sold. As the 
sale was some 21 years ago, and I wasnt there at the time, I can only rely on the available 
evidence. Im happy the policy documents and terms and conditions make it clear how the 
policy works. Whilst I cant be sure what was discussed at the meeting, what I do know is 
that Mr B was provided with these documents soon after. If these documents didnt align with 
what Mr B was told, then he had the opportunity to cancel the policy or ask questions. I cant 
see that either of those things happened, so on balance, Im satisfied that how the policy 
worked was made clear. 
Mr B says that the policy collapsed without any value; and hes right, that is what happened. 
But that doesnt mean that Zurich did anything wrong. The policy ended as Mr B stopped 
paying the premiums in early 2006 due to a change in his circumstances. So without 
premiums being paid the policy, whatever type it was, wouldve ended. And this policy wasnt 
primarily designed an investment so there was no return to Mr B.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Warren WilsonOmbudsman