DRN-4356777
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with TSB Bank Plc (TSB). Mrs R said that she went to her TSB bank 
branch because she wanted to open a 3 year fixed rate ISA. But Mrs R said instead TSB 
opened a 3 year fixed rate bond for her. Mrs R wants TSB to move her money into the ISA.
What happened
There were some discussions between Mrs R and a member of staff in the branch about her 
savings. Apparently, these discussions talked over the options available, and the adviser 
ended up opening some Spend and Save savings pots for Mrs R. Once this had been 
arranged Mrs R went away to think about the options available to her.
Mrs R said that when she went back it was to open the ISA whereas TSB said shed decided 
to take out a fixed rate bond. A little while after the bond had been completed Mrs R 
contacted TSB and said this wasnt the product she wanted. She said she had asked for the 
ISA and instead TSB had given her the bond. TSB said it had given Mrs R the product she 
had requested. But it did accept when she had complained about TSB not following its 
correct complaint handling process. So, TSB offered Mrs R £40 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. As Mrs R remained unhappy, she brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said TSB provide customers with 
information and the customer chooses the product they want. She noted that the bond 
provided a higher rate of interest to the ISA. Our investigator said Mrs R had signed the 
agreement for the bond. So, she didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mrs R didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R is adamant that she only ever wanted to take out an ISA. She said she didnt want to 
lose out on her tax relief allowances. Mrs R said she had mistakenly signed the form for a 
bond. But Mrs R said she was only given the paperwork that confirmed it was a bond after 
she had signed for it. However, Mrs R did accept the completed paperwork did clearly show 
that the product was a bond.
Mrs R didnt think TSB had been clear enough about the bond being set up. She said she 
had been clear all along that she wanted an ISA.
TSB said when Mrs R came back after going away to think about her options she had 
decided to take the fixed rate bond, which was at a better rate. The adviser Mrs R had seen 
originally when the savings pots had been set up was working on the counter so asked 
another colleague to open the bond Mrs R requested. TSB said during the discussions as far 
as it was aware Mrs R understood everything and knew what had been set up. It said, Full 
scripting is read to our customers regarding the product selected and the staff who 
interviewed Mrs R confirmed the correct process was followed and we have signed terms 
and conditions.
Looking at the documents Mrs R signed it says at the top of page 1 of 2 Welcome to your 
new Fixed Rate Bond. I understand Mrs R accepts she signed but said she didnt see that it 
was a bond until later. The details of it being a bond is the heading and in larger print than 
the rest of the text. So, I dont think the documents are unclear or misleading.
In terms of Mrs Rs request to change back to the ISA TSB confirmed the fixed rate bond 
didnt have a cooling off period and is closed for withdrawals the day it is set up. TSB also 
notified Mrs R that her existing cash ISA was still open, but funds couldnt be transferred 
from the bond. Although I can understand how disappointing this is for Mrs R I dont think 
TSB did anything wrong. I think it acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the issue and 
attempting to resolve it.
TSB did accept that it had incorrectly advised Mrs R to raise a complaint herself when it 
should have done it for her. Due to the inconvenience and not following its own complaint 
handling process TSB offered Mrs R £40. I cant comment on this issue. This isnt about a 
financial service. This is about the way TSB dealt with the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman