DRN-3904908
The complaint
Mr C has complained, as a director of a company, which Ill refer to as D, about Highway 
Insurance Company Limiteds (Highway) handling of a motor claim under Ds Van Insurance 
policy.
What happened
On 12 December 2019 Ds driver was reversing off a driveway when contact was made with 
a parked vehicle behind him. Mr C said both parties agreed at the time that no damage had 
been sustained to either vehicle. 
A year after the date of the incident, Mr C received a letter from Highway informing him that 
a claim had been made, alleging Ds vehicle was involved in an incident with a third-party 
parked vehicle in December 2019. Mr C denied the claim and disputed that any damage was 
caused by Ds vehicle. Mr C said contact was only made because there was an extremely 
protruding door trim due to extensive pre-existing damage. He also said the claim had been 
exaggerated and may be fraudulent due to the cost involved in repairing the third-party 
vehicle - just over £2,000 - even though there was no damage caused. He said the damage 
being claimed for was pre-existing and not caused by the contact Ds vehicle had with the 
third-party vehicle when reversing off the driveway. 
Highway decided to settle the claim by agreeing liability with the third-party insurer. Mr C 
disputed this and said the third-party was making a possibly fraudulent claim. Mr C said 
Highway failed to act in Ds best interests and instead settled the claim on a commercial 
basis. He requested Highway defend the claim and offered to cover the cost if the matter 
proceeded to court. 
Highway said they had taken on board the points made by Mr C and made necessary 
investigations. Highway accepted that while there was pre-existing damage, when a vehicle 
is repaired, old damage is absorbed into the repair cost as it is impossible to rectify it, 
without repairing the damage around it. Their engineer reviewed the damage and was 
satisfied that the repair costs were reasonable. 
During the course of the complaint, Mr C also requested from Highway the third-party 
drivers contact details and allegation statement regarding the incident or any other related 
documents in order to pursue a potentially fraudulent claim. Highway said that under the 
GDPR rules, they were unable to provide this information. Mr C remained dissatisfied and 
therefore he contacted the Information Commissioners Office.
Highway explained they had settled on a without prejudice basis, which means without 
accepting liability, because they were unable to prove that the damage claimed for was not 
as a result of the contact made by Ds vehicle and as such if the matter proceeded to court, 
they firmly believed the court would not find in their favour. 
Mr C maintained that he believed the claim had been exaggerated and was potentially 
fraudulent and therefore Highway should reject it as per the following term in the policy: 
 4.1 Claims Fraud 
If you or anyone representing you gives us misleading or incorrect information when 
making a claim or part of any claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated, you will 
lose all benefits under this policy from  the date of the fraudulent claim(s) We will 
cancel the policy and retain all premium youve paid for this policy We may also
Reject the claim or reduce the amount of payment we make 
Highway explained to Mr C that when they rate policies, the impact on future premiums is 
not determined by the amount the claim is settled for, but rather the nature of the incident. 
Therefore, even if the claim value was less the impact for D would be the same. 
As a gesture of goodwill and in recognition of the concerns raised by Mr C relating to this 
matter, Highway agreed to record the claim as a non-fault incident with no impact to Ds 9 
years No Claims Discount. However, as contact was made with the third-party vehicle, 
Highway said they couldnt evidence that the damage wasnt caused by Ds vehicle and 
therefore they couldnt defend the claim because they felt there was no prospect of success 
if the matter proceeded to court. 
Highway recorded the claim on the Claims Underwriting Exchange Database (CUE) stating 
that damage was caused. Mr C said this was misleading and would imply that D would be 
required to disclose a claim which it did not make or authorise.
Mr C remained dissatisfied that Highway agreed to settle what he believes to be a potentially 
fraudulent claim. And as a result, it has been reported on the CUE database which he 
believes will financially impact Ds future policies with additional loading. He says no claim 
was made or authorised for settlement by D. He therefore feels that Highway failed to act in 
Ds best interests. He wants Highway to remove the claim from the CUE database and for 
Ds best interests to be paramount.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Highway 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to settle the claim as they saw fit. He said 
that Highway had been fair and reasonable in recording the claim as non-fault and allowing 
D to retain its no claims discount, given that there was some contact made with the third-
party vehicle and the lack of further evidence. He also said Highway acted reasonably in 
recording the claim on the CUE database. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view. He reiterated that the contact between Ds 
vehicle and the third-party vehicle was very minimal, barely touching and therefore it could 
not have caused the amount of damage that has been claimed for. Although he accepts that 
the no claims discount hasnt been affected and the claim marked as non-fault, he remains 
dissatisfied that D has to notify future insurers about the claim. He believes this will have an 
impact on future premiums. He maintains the damage was excessive and inconsistent with 
the incident. He also said that the claim was potentially fraudulent and exaggerated. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr C has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. I want to assure Mr C that 
Ive read and carefully considered everything he has said. However, my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr C, and Highway, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In Mr Cs complaint letter to this service, he said that he didnt think Ds vehicle caused any 
damage to the third-party vehicle. Whilst he clearly didnt agree with Highways decision on 
settling the claim, what he is also disputing is that Highway recorded the claim on CUE. He 
says this will impact future premiums for D as it will need to let insurers know about a claim 
even though it didnt make or authorise a claim.  
This is clearly a matter of great principle to Mr C and I fully understand he feels frustrated 
with the way Highway has settled the claim when he believed it may be fraudulent and 
exaggerated. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is to investigate how the insurer made 
the decision to settle the claim. Did they act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy? 
In the terms and conditions of Ds policy, Highways ability to determine liability is included 
under the heading Accident and claims procedure. Here it says, in summary, Highway has 
total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim.  
So, Highway is entitled, under the terms and conditions of their policy with D, to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as they see fit. And this means Highway can settle the claim as they 
feel appropriate irrespective of what D said and whether Mr C agreed with the outcome or 
not. That means it doesnt require Mr Cs knowledge or consent to decide how to settle a 
claim. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. And I 
think its a reasonable term, as ultimately Highway will have to pay any settlement, so they 
should be able to decide how to settle. 
This having been said, I would still expect Highway to act reasonably when relying on this 
term and properly consider the matter before proposing a settlement. 
Mr C said that Highway should reject the claim under the policy terms (clause 4.1 Claims 
Fraud) for a fraudulent and exaggerated claim. The term which Mr C refers to is intended for 
when a policy holder is found to have made a fraudulent or exaggerated claim. As this isnt 
relevant to the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that its reasonable for Highway not 
to reject the claim under clause 4.1 of the policy. 
The evidence that Highway had to consider was the two drivers versions of events and 
photographs of the damage on the third-partys vehicle. Having referred the matter to their 
engineer for comment, I think it was reasonable for Highway to conclude that as some 
contact had been made between the vehicles, they couldnt evidence that no damage had 
been caused. Im satisfied Highway acted in line with Ds policy terms and conditions and 
took into account the available evidence when they made their decision to settle the claim on 
a without prejudice basis. The claim was also recorded as non-fault and Ds No Claims 
Discount remained unaffected. I think this was a reasonable decision in the circumstances 
and I dont require Highway to change it.
I think Highway investigated matters reasonably. Mr C may disagree with their interpretation 
of the evidence and their decision to settle the claim, but I dont think they exercised their discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to do so.
Mr C is also dissatisfied that Highway reported the incident on the CUE database. The CUE 
database must be an accurate reflection of whats happened, and Im satisfied that Highway 
have correctly reported this incident and they are not required to delete it from the CUE 
database. I appreciate there is a dispute regarding the amount of damage caused, but I 
would expect an insurer to record such a reported incident on the CUE database. 
Notwithstanding the inclusion of the word Claims in its name, the CUE is a database that 
includes incidents that havent resulted in claims too, so irrespective of the outcome the 
incident would still need to be recorded on the CUE database. 
Mr C requested third-party details so he could pursue this matter further. Highway have 
refused to provide details of the third-party citing data protection issues. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) deals with complaints around this topic. As I understand it, this 
matter has already been referred to the ICO by Mr C. Its therefore not appropriate for this 
service to comment any further on this particular matter. 
Overall, I dont consider that Highway treated D unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Highway to change the way they have recorded the incident on the CUE database or 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman