DRN-3593645
The complaint
Mr H complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to refund his private medical 
insurance premiums after finding out he was not eligible to make a claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
- The policy terms make it clear that to be eligible to make a claim, the member must 
be a resident in the UK and registered with a UK GP. 
- Mr H moved abroad permanently in 2012. BUPA says that if Mr H had made a valid 
claim for treatment in the UK since 2012, this would have been paid. Ive considered 
this argument. However, I think medical information provided to BUPA in the event of 
a claim would have likely brought to light that Mr H wasnt living in the UK and so 
wasnt eligible to claim.
- On balance, Im satisfied that BUPA has not been on risk to pay a claim since 2012, 
and so the fair outcome is for BUPA to return the premiums paid. 
- Mr H says he told BUPA in 2012 that he was leaving the UK and was reassured that 
he could still be covered. BUPA doesnt have a record of this conversation as it only 
keeps information from the past seven years. 
- I therefore appreciate that BUPA had no way of knowing that Mr H had been living 
abroad until this came to light during a conversation between the parties in 2021. 
Because of this, I only require BUPA to pay interest from the date it became aware in 
2021 that Mr H wasnt a UK resident, rather than the date he moved abroad in 2012.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require BUPA Insurance Limited to refund the premiums Mr H paid between the date he 
moved abroad in 2012 and the date the policy was cancelled in 2021. Interest* should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date BUPA found out about Mr Hs 
residential status in 2021 to the date of settlement.
If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman