DRN-3879263
The complaint
Mr G complains that Trinity Insurance Services Limited (Trinity) didnt tell him that he no
longer had an insurance policy in place for his military kit and personal belongings.
What happened
Mr G purchased an insurance policy for his military kit and personal belongings via Trinity,
acting as a broker, in February 2018.
In March 2022 Mr Gs television was damaged, and he attempted to make a claim directly
with the insurer, but they said Mr G didnt have a policy in force. So, Mr G contacted his
broker, Trinity.
Trinity said Mr G hadnt had an insurance policy in place since 2019, and he hadnt paid any
premiums for cover since then. They also said his policy wouldnt have covered his contents
in any event, so even if there was a policy in place, he wouldnt have been able to claim for
his TV.
Mr G says Trinity didnt tell him he no longer had an insurance policy in place. He also said
he should have had cover in place for contents. Trinity said they wrote to Mr G on
21 March 2019 to tell him he no longer had a policy - but Mr G says he didnt receive any
notification from Trinity.
As Mr G remained unhappy, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was
satisfied Trinity had told Mr G in March 2019 that he no longer had an insurance policy, and
it didnt cover his contents in any event.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator. Therefore, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome in part to our investigator. Therefore, 
Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on 
my provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
Mr G first took an insurance policy via Trinity in February 2018, which ran for a year. 
On 23 February 2019, Mr Gs policy was due for renewal.
When considering Mr Gs complaint, our investigator said that the policy was 
cancelled for non-payment, and Mr G was notified of this. Our investigator took into 
account a copy of correspondence Trinity sent to Mr G on 21 March 2019 which said:
Thank you for your recent communication confirming cancellation of the 
above policy.
We are delighted to have been of service to your and we are sorry to lose 
your custom.
Mr G disputes he cancelled his policy. But Trinity also doesnt argue that the policy 
was cancelled by Mr G  despite what the cancellation letter said. Instead, from 
communication with this service, Trinity says the policy renewal didnt continue, due 
to no payment being received from Mr G for his renewal from 2019 onwards. And no 
premiums have been paid since.
I asked our investigator to obtain some further information from Trinity about what 
happened around the renewal, including any correspondence sent to Mr G at the 
time.
Ive seen the renewal documents Mr G was sent on 23 February 2019. However, I 
think they were unclear in the next steps for Mr G to take to renew his policy. I say 
this because these outline - and Ive left the typos and missing words/numbers 
throughout:
Your annual premium for the forthcoming year is will be £83.47, inclusive of
Insurance Premiums Tax (if applicable) and collected by direct debit we 
already hold for you on the firsh working day of every month. You should note 
that this premium includes a £2.25 monthly administration fee. To refresh 
your memory your monthly premium last year was £As you paid by credit or 
debit card last year you will need to contact us if you wish to continue with this 
insurance policy. You have been with us for 1 years. You may be able to get 
the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop round. However, 
please be careful when comparing policy details that you are covered for your 
military lifestyle, that is what makes our products special for you. To refresh 
your memory your monthly payment last year was £4.36, inclusive of
Insurance Premium Tax.The renewal document concludes with:
Customers who do not pay by direct debit
Your cover does not renew automatically if youve not previously paid by 
direct debit. You need to contact us on (number) prior to the renewal date to 
ensure cover continues. We can then take your payment over the phone, No 
charges apply for payments by credit or debit card.
Alternatively, if you wish to now pay by direct debit we would be happy to 
arrange this. For further details please contact us prior to the renewal date on 
(number).
So, from this, I think the next steps for Mr G were unclear. The documents make 
reference to both Mr G paying by direct debit monthly and saying Trinity would 
continue to take payments using the details held, to paying annually, and he did need 
to contact Trinity to renew - in the same paragraph. And the conflicting information 
could have led Mr G to believe he had cover in place from renewal and he didnt 
need to do anything.
Trinity has also provided a second set of documents, dated 13 March 2019 - post 
renewal date of 23 February 2019. These appear similar to the original renewal 
documents, but the next steps are equally unclear- again Ive left the typos and 
missing numbers:
Your Annual premium for the forthcoming year is will be £, inclusive of 
Insurance Premium Tax (if applicable) and collected by direct debit using the 
bank details we already hold on the firsh working day of every month. You 
should note that this premium includes a £2.25 monthly administration fee. To 
refresh your memory your monthly premium last year was £As you paid by 
credit or debit card last year you will need to contact us if you wish to continue 
with this insurance policy, 4.36, inclusive of Insurance Premium Tax.
In my view, this second document, dated after the renewal date, was equally unclear 
about next steps to renew. But I also note that Trinity hasnt actually been able to 
provide screen logs that this second document was sent.
So, I cant see with certainty that this second letter was sent, but even if it was, it 
wasnt clear that the renewal date had already actually passed and overdue 
premiums for the renewal hadnt been received. Instead, it looked similar to the first 
renewal notice (and equally unclear about next steps) - around three weeks after the 
policy renewal date.
But as I say, Trinity havent evidenced this letter was sent so I cant say for certain 
that it was. Instead, based on the information Trinity has provided, theyve only 
demonstrated they sent a renewal invite (which as Ive outlined above was unclear 
on next steps), and a cancellation letter (which didnt actually reflect what had 
happened here). So, I dont think the information Mr G was given was clear in what 
was happening, what he needed to do - such as pay for the policy or how, that Trinity 
hadnt been able to collect the premiums, or that this resulted in the policy ending.
Mr G also disputes receiving the (incorrectly worded) cancellation letter in 2019 so he 
says he wasnt aware his policy had ended. However, Trinity has shown this was 
sent, so Im not able to hold them responsible for this not being received by Mr G.I do also have to consider that Mr G didnt pay premiums since 2019, even if he did 
think he had a policy in place 2019-2020. He also didnt receive any documents for 
the policy in 2020, 2021 or 2022 - or pay any premiums for it in that time. Mr G says 
he had some insurance premiums coming out during this period, but they may have 
been for a separate critical illness policy - but he didnt query this with Trinity or the 
fact he hadnt received policy documents for several years.
But in any event, regardless of the above, Mr Gs policy didnt cover his contents 
items (and wouldnt have even if he had renewed it in 2019). Mr G says this is 
essential cover that he would have taken, but having looked at the renewal 
documents, this covered Mr Gs military kit, his valuables and personal possessions 
(items taken outside the home) - but not his general contents. The schedule from 
2019 reflects this in the cover level against contents, where £0 is listed.
So although Mr G may have been sent unclear renewal documents about what would
happen at renewal, even if I accept they were clear and/or Mr G did actually renew 
his policy (and had done so in the following years), he wouldnt have been covered 
for what has happened here in any event. So, Im not minded to direct Trinity to pay 
Mr G the equivalent of the value of the TV as if he did have a policy in place with the 
insurer, as it would never have been covered, regardless of what happened leading 
up to that point.
However, as I say, Mr G has been given conflicting information by Trinity and this 
includes how to renew his policy, and what actually happened here which resulted in 
the policy then ending. And he has needed to contact Trinity, and other parties 
including his bank and the previous insurer, a number of times to try to establish what 
had happened which led to his policy ending  but he has been given conflicting and 
unclear information about this by Trinity. Whilst I dont think Trinity needs to cover the 
cost of the TV (as this would never have been covered), I think they should 
compensate Mr G £50 for the additional upset, inconvenience and confusion that has 
been caused.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Trinity to pay Mr G £50 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Trinity responded and accepted my provisional decision.
Mr G responded but he didnt agree. He said that when he first took out the policy, the policy 
documents he was sent were blank. Mr G also maintains that his contents were covered and 
any documents Trinity have provided saying it wasnt covered arent true. Mr G says there 
were no issues with his bank, he wasnt sent a cancellation letter and he says Trinity arent 
telling the truth.
Mr G also said the insurer previously paid for a damaged tablet computer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr G, my final decision 
remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.Mr G has said he was sent blank documents in 2018 when he took out the policy. However, 
given Mr G had purchased an insurance policy, which he says is key for his occupation, if he 
didnt receive documents it may have been reasonable for Mr G to contact Trinity to ask for 
another copy to be sent so he could make sure the cover was what he needed.
Whilst I also acknowledge Mr Gs comments that the documents provided by Trinity arent 
true, I dont have any evidence to support these documents are incorrect. As I mentioned in 
my provisional decision, these outlined cover for military kit, valuables and personal 
possessions (outside the home). Mr G hasnt provided any alternative documents or 
evidence to support that his general contents were covered, instead the only documents I 
have been provided show contents to have £0 cover.
In any event, even if the policy did cover general contents in 2018 (which I dont agree has 
been shown by Mr G), the fact remains that Mr G hasnt had any cover in place since the 
policy ended in 2019. So, a claim for his TV in 2022 wouldnt have been covered, even if his 
originally policy did include contents within the home cover, as he hasnt had a policy in force 
(or paid for one) for several years.
Whilst Mr G has said he didnt receive the cancellation letters or other documents in 2019, I 
talked about the documents and the evidence provided to support they were sent in my 
provisional decision. I also commented on the clarity of the wording used in the documents. 
And my views on these points remain the same.
I note Mr G has said the insurer paid for a previous tablet computer. However, this complaint 
is about Trinity acting as a broker, rather than the insurer itself. So, I cant comment on any 
previous claims made or paid by the insurer in 2018. However, what I would note here is that 
whilst the policy documents provided dont demonstrate Mr G had contents cover  which is 
items within the home - they do show he had cover for personal possessions. This covers 
small electronic equipment, which specifically lists tablets, worldwide. So, having contents 
cover in the home wouldnt be necessary for a portable tablet computer to be covered, and 
Mr Gs policy documents show he had this cover previously, prior to the policy ending.
Even so, the fact remains that Mr G hasnt had a policy in place since the 2018-2019 policy. 
He hasnt paid any premiums since this time, and he wasnt sent any documents or 
communication from Trinity to say he was covered since then. But Mr G didnt query this with 
Trinity in the years 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022. 
In my provisional decision I said that I thought it would be fair and reasonable for Trinity to 
compensate Mr G £50 and explained the reasons for this. My thoughts on this and the 
reasons havent changed. So, Ill be directing Trinity to compensate Mr G £50 for the 
additional upset, inconvenience and confusion caused.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Trinity Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr G £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman