DRN-3989140
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr H applied for and was approved for one loan of £400 in March 2020. It was repayable 
over six months at £124.38 each month. Documents sent to us by MoneyBoat in May 2022 
indicate that Mr H paid very little towards the loan and after August 2020 paid nothing 
towards it. So, there is a balance outstanding. 
Mr H complained to MoneyBoat through his representative in April 2022 and received its 
final response letter (FRL) that same month. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr H was not 
content and, through his representative, referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at it and thought that Mr H was paying too much out each 
month on other credit for this loan to be affordable. Our adjudicator had used the credit 
search results MoneyBoat had obtained on 29 March 2020, the day before the loan was 
approved.  
MoneyBoat disagreed and said that our adjudicators reading of the credit file MoneyBoat 
had at the time and which it had reviewed was wrong.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. 
These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. As he took one loan only than 
this does not apply.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Its unusual for me to conclude that a single loan for a relatively modest sum such as the one 
Mr H took warranted additional checks by MoneyBoat before it approved the loan. But in 
these circumstances I have come to that conclusion.
I think that MoneyBoat may be correct that Mr H was not likely paying around £700 a month 
towards other debt. And I say that because I can see that one of the debts was 5 years since 
it had been defaulted and with a debt collection agency and so I doubt very much Mr H was 
repaying it at around 5% of the debt each month. However, MoneyBoat would have been 
aware of that adverse entry on his credit file. 
But what the credit file does reveal very clearly and what I do think MoneyBoat ought to have 
been alive to, was that Mr H had taken a short term loan on 13 February 2020, a large loan 
on 28 February 2020, and two smaller loans on 21 and 22 February 2020, and Mr H had 
obtained a new credit card on 10 February 2020. And one of his mail order accounts was 
over its £1,000 limit (the once that had commenced 15 November 2018). Mr Hs overdraft 
had been bouncing underneath its limit of £2,700 for several months and had a balance at 
the time of £2,100 but still close to the overdraft balance. 
The headline details provided by the credit search MoneyBoat had obtained showed it that 
Mr H had 38 credit accounts of which 15 were active. Mr H had opened six accounts in the 
last six months which translated into an average of one a month, I have seen from reviewing that same credit search document that Mr H had opened five in one month. Plus, Mr H had 
carried out 12 searches in the previous three months which is a high number.
 
Mr H had two home-credit loans both of which were delinquent in that hed not paid anything 
towards them for months. 
Mr H had given MoneyBoat some information about his income and other expenditure. Hed 
told them his income was £1,200 but it had reduced this to £1,080 each month. Mr Hs 
general expenses were increased by MoneyBoat by £210 a month which seemed sensible 
as Mr H had declared very little amounts for monthly food, and transport costs. So, with the 
declared sum of £200 a month for credit plus his rent and an entry for other then his total 
costs came to £800 and these are laid out in a table in the FRL MoneyBoat sent to Mr H. 
But I also think that the likely monthly credit costs were around £500 a month  not the £200 
a month MoneyBoat had used  and so I consider that Mr Hs overall costs were more like 
£1,100 each month. And I have reached that £500 a month figure using the credit search 
MoneyBoat had obtained for Mr H before approving the loan.
So, on the information it had already I consider that Mr H was not likely able to afford the 
£124 a month for this loan.
If MoneyBoat had wanted to take it further and had decided to check why it was that Mr H 
had been applying for so much credit so often and why he had been carrying out so many 
searches for other lenders, then I think one way would have been to view Mr Hs bank 
account statements. I dont think it did that but Mr H has forwarded to us his bank statements 
for the period leading up to 30 March 2020.
From those I can see that Mr H was taking many loans, was in his overdraft, had betting and 
gaming transactions which often added up to several hundred pounds most days. His salary 
varied between £871 and £1,145 plus his housing costs were higher than hed told 
MoneyBoat. 
So, if MoneyBoat had not reviewed any bank account statements for Mr H, still I consider it 
had enough information to recognise that Mr H was not going to be able to afford the £124 
each month sustainably. And if it had reviewed his bank statements to carry out further 
checks before lending then I think it would have realised Mr H was not managing his money 
and was spending a great deal on one activity  betting and gaming  which likely was the 
cause of his debts. 
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that this loan is outstanding. And as Mr H has paid so little towards the 
loan, even with the redress paragraphs set out here, Mr H will have a balance to pay to 
MoneyBoat. 
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Mr H as payments towards the capital amount of £400,
If Mr H has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,But if theres still an outstanding balance, MoneyBoat should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr H
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to the loan after its been paid down.
*HMRC requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks MoneyBoat for a 
certificate showing how much tax MoneyBoat has taken off, it should provide this. If 
MoneyBoat intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr H owes, MoneyBoat must do 
this after tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I direct that Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, does as I have outlined in the putting things 
right section of my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman