DRN-1783983
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of a holiday which didnt meet the agreed terms.
What happened
Mr T booked a holiday to travel abroad for a major sporting event. He booked the holiday 
with a company I will call T at a cost of £1,490.  He says that the transport from his 
accommodation to the airport to fly to the event didnt turn up and the return transport also 
failed to materialise. Mr T had to take a taxi in both directions. He also says that the whole 
experience was stressful and this was compounded by language barriers. 
Mr T was entitled to hospitality with lunch and drinks provided, but this was only available in 
a tent some 15 minutes from the ground. He thought he should have been provided with a 
better seat with food and drinks more readily accessible.
Mr T, who was traveling with a friend complained to T. When that proved to be unsuccessful 
he took the matter up with HSBC. He asked that he be provided with a full refund. HSBC 
credited his account and made a chargeback request, but this was rejected. T said that it 
had offered to refund the cost of the taxis and pay compensation totalling £250, but 
otherwise Mr T had been provided with the rest of the agreed services. It notified Mr T of this 
decision, but it didnt consider if a claim under section 75 might succeed.
Mr T bright his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. 
HSBC explained that the chargeback had failed, but it accepted that claim under section 75 
should have been considered and it set one in motion. It also offered £50 in compensation at 
this point.
Our investigator concluded there was a breach of contract in that the transfers were not 
provided and the hospitality wasnt as expected. She also considered the level of service 
offered by the bank was poor and she suggested it refund 30% of the cost plus £150 
compensation. Mr T didnt agree and said his friend had got all his money back. In due 
course he said he would accept a 60% refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is no break in the debtor-creditor-supplier chain and the remaining issue 
for me to consider is whether there was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
However, before I address that issue I will deal with the chargeback claim.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme - in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
HSBC made a chargeback claim and it was rejected by MasterCard after consulting the 
merchant, T. The bank had no power to alter that decision, but it did fail to consider section 
75 until Mr T brought a complaint to this service.
Turning to the section 75 claim I agree that Mr T didnt receive the full service which he had 
been offered. T failed to provide transfers to and from the airport; that is a clear breach. On 
the matter of the hospitality that is less clear cut, but I can see that Mr T was led to believe 
that it was more than food and drink in a tent some 15 minutes from the ground. 
Nothing I have seen sets out the detail of what was to be provided, but the additional cost for 
this element was significant and I can understand Mr Ts disappointment with what was 
made available.
Overall, I can see that there were failures by T, or its agents and I agree with out investigator 
that some redress is due. In reality Mr T did get the key elements of the package, the flights 
and seats at the stadium and it is right that he pay for these. I think the 30% refund covered 
the taxi fares and allows for the distress he may have suffered.
I gather Mr Ts friend received a full refund, but I cannot comment on that matter and it has 
no bearing on my decision as to what is fair and reasonable.
I believe therefore that Mr T is entitled to compensation as recommended by our 
investigator.
Putting things right
HSBC should compensate Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
Reimburse 30% of the total cost of the package to Mr T.
Pay £150.00 total compensation for the customer service received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman