DRN-4299878
The complaint
Mr E complains that Think Money Limited trading as thinkmoney (thinkmoney) didnt 
reimburse him the funds he lost after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr E is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr E throughout this decision.
Mr E says that he met someone on a dating app and messaged her for a few weeks before 
she told him that in her spare time she invests. He says that the person he was messaging 
provided him with evidence of her success and he asked if she could teach him how to 
trade. Mr E didnt know at the time, but the person he was messaging, and others he was 
later referred to, were scammers.  
The scammer provided Mr E with a link to an investment company Ill refer to as X and 
advised Mr E to open an account with a cryptocurrency provider Ill call S. Between April and 
June 2022 Mr E made multiple payments to S totalling over £27,000. Funds were then 
transferred from S to wallet details provided by the scammer. 
The payments started off small but on 9 June 2022 Mr E attempted to make a payment of 
£9,000 to S soon after a transaction of £3,000. The transaction was stopped by thinkmoney 
and a call took place. In that call Mr E was asked who he was paying, the origin of the funds 
and the reason for the payment. Mr E said he was paying S, hed got a loan and the reason 
for the payment was home improvements.
Mr E realised he had been scammed when he wanted to withdraw funds and was asked to 
pay more. The scammer also stopped communicating with him. 
Mr E didnt report what had happened to thinkmoney but instructed a firm of solicitors which 
wrote to thinkmoney in November 2022. After gathering information from Mr Es 
representative, thinkmoney didnt agree to refund any of his losses. It said that the 
transactions on the account were like those of a customer using the account to invest, the 
payments were going to a legitimate company (S) and Mr E also received credits from S. In 
thinkmoneys opinion, the payments werent unusual, and an unusual pattern of payments 
didnt emerge. 
Thinkmoney noted that when it asked Mr E about the £9,000 transaction on 9 June 2022 he 
lied and said it was for home improvements, so it was unable to provide relevant advice or 
uncover the scam. Finally, thinkmoney said that given the level of research Mr E says he 
completed hed have still thought the investment opportunity was genuine if it had asked him 
further questions. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that thinkmoney refund 50% 
of Mr Es loss from and including the £9,000 payment on 9 June 2022. He said that the 
£9,000 transaction on 9 June was unusual but thinkmoney didnt go far enough when it 
discussed it with Mr E. He felt that thinkmoney should have asked more questions around 
why Mr E was making payments for home improvements to a company predominantly used 
for cryptocurrency and to send money in different currencies. The investigator said that if 
thinkmoney had asked more detailed questions its likely the scam would have been 
uncovered and further loss prevented. 
Initially Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings and said thinkmoney should have 
intervened earlier. After considering the investigators response, Mr E accepted what the 
investigator said but thinkmoney didnt. In summary, it said:
- S isnt just a digital wallet which provides cryptocurrency, it also allows customers to 
make payments online. 
- The £9,000 transaction was larger than normal, but the funds were going to an 
account in Mr Es name with a legitimate company. 
- Sufficient questions were asked in the call on 9 June 2022. 
- Its not possible to confidently say what would have happened if thinkmoney had 
asked Mr E further questions about the home improvements he said he was paying 
for. Its also common to take out a loan and use the funds for home improvements. 
- Its unlikely the scam would have been uncovered given that Mr E didnt tell 
thinkmoney the truth. 
- If Mr E had said the funds were being transferred for an investment thinkmoney 
would have asked additional questions, but this wasnt what happened. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The CRM Code doesnt apply to this case for a number of reasons including the fact that 
thinkmoney hasnt signed up to it.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
thinkmoney, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment, in order to help protect its customer from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request 
that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect thinkmoney to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and to 
provide a suitable warning. 
The investigator included a table of transactions in his view, so I havent duplicated the table 
in my decision. I asked Mr E about the transactions highlighted by the investigator in his view 
and whether these were also scam payments. Mr E confirmed that they were scam 
payments that had been missed so these transactions also need to be considered. 
In this case, I dont consider thinkmoney acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the early 
payments to be made. I dont consider that adding S as a new payee and making low value 
payments over a period of time ought reasonably to have caused thinkmoney to be 
concerned he may be the victim of a scam. 
I agree with the investigator that thinkmoney ought reasonably to have had concerns about 
Mr Es account activity when he made the £9,000 payment in June 2022, particularly given the value of it. Before 9 June 2022 the highest value payment to S was for £1,250. When 
thinkmoney stopped the £9,000 payment on 9 June 2022 Mr E had already made a payment 
to S of £3,000 so there was a significant increase in spending. Mr Es account had also gone 
into overdraft before it was credited with a loan of £13,000.
I also agree with the investigator that thinkmoney didnt do enough in its conversation with 
Mr E on 9 June 2022. Thinkmoney say that Mr E didnt tell the truth about the reason for this 
payment and that had he explained he was making an investment thinkmoney would have 
read a script and asked if he was investing in an FCA regulated company. Thinkmoney also 
said that if it established the payment related to cryptocurrency it would not have released it. 
But Mr E said the payment was for home improvements funded by a loan which wasnt 
unusual, and the funds were going to an account in Mr Es name at a legitimate company.
Whilst the company Mr E sent his funds to isnt just a cryptocurrency provider and it offers 
other services, I dont consider it was reasonable for thinkmoney to accept Mr Es response 
that he was paying for home improvements without further probing. By the time Mr E made 
this payment he had already received four credits from S for amounts ranging from £19.09 to 
£711. This kind of activity is common when a customer invests. I consider thinkmoney ought 
reasonably to have recognised this and asked Mr E some questions around why he was 
paying S rather than a building company directly and what the credits he had received 
related to.
I note that thinkmoney said in its final response letter that, the transactions on the account 
were like those expected of a customer using their thinkmoney account to invest so it 
seems thinkmoney accepts that irrespective of Mr Es answer to its question about the 
payment reason, it recognised the most likely reason for the transactions. So, whilst S is not 
just a cryptocurrency platform, Im satisfied it looked like Mr E wasnt using the other 
services S offers. 
The fact that thinkmoney established that the funds originated from a loan was more 
concerning and ought to have been a further red flag to thinkmoney. The activity on Mr Es 
account was consistent with a cryptocurrency related investment scam that was being 
funded using borrowed money. 
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Es own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have satisfied 
thinkmoney that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, banks had, or 
ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that 
a customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Ive gone on to think about what was most likely to have happened if thinkmoney had asked 
the kind of probing questions I consider it ought to have when it intervened. Im not satisfied 
Mr E would have been able to provide plausible answers to such questions and the real 
reason for the payment would have been uncovered and no further payments made. I 
consider that hed have struggled to give credible answers to questions about the work he 
was having done, why he was using an unusual payment method and why hed received 
credits from S. 
Im satisfied that Mr E should share the responsibility for his loss with thinkmoney for broadly 
the same reasons as the investigator, which Ive summarised below:
- Mr E found out about the investment opportunity from someone he had never met 
and had only exchanged messages with for a few weeks so had no reason to trust to 
the extent he did.
- I havent been able to find any reliable reviews of X. The absence of such reviews 
ought reasonably to have caused Mr E concern.
- There was nothing to link the scammer to X  the company she said she worked for. - I have seen some messages relating to the scam in which the scammer told Mr E he 
would get a 35% rate of return within a day and could withdraw at any time. There 
was another message in which a scammer recommended a basic plan for Mr E and 
went on to say, The basic plan requires an investment amount of 328 USDT and can 
easily earn more than 100 USDT per day. Such returns arent realistic, especially in 
such a short timescale so Mr E ought reasonably to have been more cautious.  
- Mr E wasnt provided with any documentation or a contract to set out what had been 
agreed. This isnt what Id expect of a genuine investment company. 
- By the time Mr E made the £9,000 transaction its clear from the messages he has 
shared that he had serious concerns. Mr E even said he was out but continued to 
make payments. 
Putting things right
Whilst Im sorry to hear about the actions of a cruel scammer, I cant reasonably ask 
thinkmoney to refund Mr E in full. Thinkmoney should refund 50% of the payments made 
from 9 June 2022 (including those highlighted in the investigators view that were made after 
this date). I can see that Mr E has received credits from S (on 17 and 30 June and 7 July 
2022) after 9 June 2022 which should be deducted before calculating 50% of the remaining 
loss. 
My final decision
I require Think Money Limited trading as thinkmoney to:
- Reimburse 50% of all scam transactions from and including the £9,000 transaction 
on 9 June 2022. The credits Mr E received from S should be deducted from the total 
loss figure before the 50% calculation is made (as set out above). 
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement. 
If Think Money Limited trading as thinkmoney is legally required to deduct tax from the 
interest it should send Mr E a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman