DRN-2474238
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he obtained through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Northridge
Finance a trading name of NIIB Group Ltd (NIIB) wasnt the like for like replacement he had
been promised. He would like to reject the car.
What happened
Mr M says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with NIIB in November 2019. The car
was a replacement for a previous faulty one. Mr M says he took the replacement car on the
basis that it was a like for like replacement. However, he says he has since realised it has a
smaller fuel tank and a reduced mile per gallon (mpg) performance.
NIIB said there were no grounds to allow the car to be rejected. It said published fuel
consumption figures are taken from official tests on new cars. The figures are a guide to
comparing the relative fuel economy of different vehicles of a similar age and condition and
didnt represent the average fuel consumption that would be achieved on the road. Several
factors could affect this such as the vehicle age, maintenance, road/weather conditions and
driving style.
With regard to the fuel tank size it said it wouldnt expect this to be automatically discussed
with a consumer . Smaller fuel tanks were becoming increasingly common across the 
industry in an attempt by manufacturers to reduce the weight on modern vehicles to help 
improve efficiency and comply with ever-more stringent emissions regulations.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
I couldnt be sure what Mr M was told at the point of sale. There was understandably 
no record of this conversation.
I didnt  believe there was any suggestion Mr M was specifically told the fuel tank was 
the same size, more that he understood the car to be identical to the one he was 
replacing.
The seven-page specification for the car was very detailed but made no reference to 
fuel tank size. So, if Mr M saw that I could  appreciate he wouldnt have been aware 
there was a difference. And I doubted it was  something a consumer might usually 
ask about.
If fuel tank size is a sig was a significant item, I would expect it to be on the 
specification. As it wasnt,  I was of the view it was s a less important feature. And so, 
I could  understand why this wasnt specifically flagged up to Mr M. 
It wasnt reasonable to expect every single aspect of a car to be discussed at the 
point of sale.
I didnt believe there has been any deliberate mis representation of the car to Mr M. 
I didnt think that  a different size fuel tank represented a material difference. Car 
manufacturers change car designs all the time and it seemed to me that this was a 
much less significant modification than, for example, engine capacity or manual to 
automatic.
Given the changes in car designs I thought it would be unrealistic for Mr M to expect 
an absolutely  identical replacement car.
However, if I accepted  that a difference in fuel tank size meant Mr M didnt get a like 
for like replacement I would have to consider, if he had known this ,if he would have 
gone ahead with the contract anyway.  I thought it likely  he would  have done so as it 
seems he wanted that make and model of car.
Although Mr M raised an issue of the cars performance  with regard to mileage 
achieved, I didnt believe there was any independent inspection to see if there was a 
performance problem.
I didnt feel it was necessary for NIIB to arrange an independent inspection. NIIB had 
commented on the mileage issue and noted various factors can impact on miles 
achieved such as  road and weather conditions. It also provided evidence of an 
article stating for Mr Ms make of car the average mileage was 44 miles per gallon 
less than Mr M achieved.
As its widely accepted that mpg can vary, I wasnt aware of any other issues Mr M 
raised that could have impacted on the mpg achieved.
As I found no evidence of mis representation, I was unable to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NIIB have accepted my provisional decision and have not made any further comments for 
me to consider.
Mr M hasnt accepted my provisional decision and has responded with various issues for me 
to consider.
I do appreciate this matter has caused Mr M a considerable degree of time and stress I also 
appreciate it must be very disappointing when  our service initially upholds a complaint but. , 
as in this case , I reached a different conclusion. 
In response to his concerns I would like to reassure him that I have had full access to all the 
information he has supplied 
I would also like to reassure Mr M that I have considered his case very carefully. I appreciate 
his concern that the same day he received an email from our investigator telling him his case 
was being considered he received my view. So, perhaps understandably ,he didnt feel I had 
given his complaint the attention he expected .My case notes show Mr Ms complaint was allocated to me on 18 November 2020.  I first 
worked on it on 26 November 2020 with more work on 30 November 2020 and 1 December 
2020. I then issued my view on 2 December 2020. As I work independently from the 
investigator he wouldnt have known exactly when my decision would be issued.
In giving his background to his complaint in response to my provisional decision Mr M has 
referred to some issues around the HP agreement. He has pointed out some mistakes in the 
agreement which had he not noticed would have left him at a financial loss. I understand Mr 
M is considering putting in a separate complaint about these issues so it wouldnt be 
appropriate to consider these here.
I note Mr Ms concern that these issues in his view reflect the sales process. But  if there 
were problems with the HP agreement that doesnt necessarily mean that the replacement 
car was mis sold to him
I think it would be helpful if I considered Mr Ms points in turn.
Firstly, he disputes NIIB comments that smaller fuel tanks are becoming increasingly 
common. Mr M has given some evidence to show advertisements for vehicles with larger 
fuel tanks. I think NIIBs point was a general one not that only smaller fuel tanks are now the 
norm.
Next Mr M doesnt agree with my view that if fuel tank size were an important feature it 
would be on the vehicle specification. He says it is an important feature for him and so I 
accept that it is .However there is no evidence that he raised this as a specific concern to 
him prior to getting the car.  
Mr M has been very honest , which is appreciated, and said he didnt discuss the tank size 
with the salesman and didnt see the vehicle specification . He says he didnt feel the need to 
do so. He  wasnt following the usual sales process  this was  replacement for a car that 
had been damaged whilst being repaired and for which he was happy to accept a like for like 
replacement .
He says he didnt see the vehicle specification but chose the car from photographs. And 
when he had the chance to look at the car apart from the colour, he was advised it was 
identical to the one being replaced so he accepted that .
He says he did describe his job which including travelling so thinks the salesman should 
have known and made him are of the difference in fuel tank size. I can understand Mr Ms 
point but as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think its reasonable to expect every 
aspect of a car to be discussed at the point of sale.
I do think if there are specific aspects of more importance than others its not unreasonable 
for consumers to ask about these in order to make their decisions. Had Mr M seen the 
vehicle specification he might have noted no information on the fuel tank size and then 
sought further information since he has told us this information is readily available on 
websites to check.
In terms of vehicle performance Mr M says I misunderstood him and if that is the case I 
apologise. He says that he accepted mpg can vary but not the extent he found with his 
replacement car. 
He doesnt agree with NIIB comments that published consumption figures are only a guide 
and dont represent average fuel consumption that can be achieved on the road. He doesnt feel its reference to a magazine article is reasonable . And he says  that the manufacturer 
says it reduced tank size in line with expected fuel savings, but he hasnt seen any savings 
I dont agree with Mr Ms view I think NIIBs comments are reasonable particularly as it 
pointed out that a whole range of factors could impact on fuel performance such as weather, 
road conditions, vehicle age, maintenance and driving style. And I think these could equally 
impact on mpg achieved. The mpg figures that NIIB quoted from a magazine article and I 
referred to in my provisional decision were just one aspect of NIIBs response. 
Finally, Mr M has commented on the poor service he feels he has received . In summary he 
doesnt feel his concerns were properly investigated about the mpg achieved particularly 
after noting down mileage achieved himself. I have seen all the emails Mr M referred to and 
some of which he copied extracts from in his response to me.
In my provisional decision I said I considered if I should ask NIIB to arrange and independent 
inspection of Mr Ms car but concluded this wasnt necessary. I have considered this again in 
the light of Mr Ms comments. Given there dont seem to be any other issues with Mr Ms car, 
that mpg can vary, and Mr M seems to achieve what is considered to be an acceptable level 
of mpg I do not feel this would be helpful.
Its unfortunate that Mr M has discovered his car has a smaller fuel tank,  but I am still of the 
view that I have no evidence of any intentional or otherwise attempt to mis represent the car 
to Mr M. And that a difference in fuel tank size doesnt represent a material difference in the 
way that for example a change from manual to automatic might. 
So, as  I dont feel Mr M has given me any significant new information that would lead me to 
conclude I should change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman