DRN-3586277
The complaint and what happened
Mr I complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse funds he lost as a result of a scam. He 
is being represented by solicitors in his complaint. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr I met someone through online dating and was persuaded to invest into crypto-
assets. Between October and December 2020, Mr I invested over £8,000 via 
Crypto.com into Viassy.com. 
Mr I realised hed been scammed when he was told hed have to invest more to 
withdraw funds; but still couldnt do so. 
Starling didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. It said he had authorised the transactions and 
it wasnt the point of loss  as his money had been paid into a legitimate crypto-asset 
trader before being sent to the scammer. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it either. She explained Mr I didnt have a valid 
chargeback route and that she didnt think the payments were so unusual that 
Starling ought to have intervened. 
Mr Is solicitors have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It 
considers the final payment was unusual such that Starling ought to have done more 
before allowing the payment to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached but the investigator for the following reasons. 
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr I made 
the payments and so they are authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I have looked at the operation of Mr Is account. In the months leading up to the 
transactions in dispute, Mr I was making payments to other trading platforms. He was 
also making payments to new payees and sometimes made multiple transactions to 
the same merchant on the same day. Mr Is payments to Crypto.com followed a 
similar pattern. I have considered the amounts and accept the solicitors point the final 
payment was higher than other spending on the account. However, by this time, the 
merchant Mr I was paying was a regular payee. When taking everything else into 
account, Im not persuaded the payment amount itself was so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered Starlings fraud alert systems, such 
that it ought to have paused the payment pending further enquiries about it. 
Finally, I have thought about whether Mr I had any chargeback rights for the 
transactions. Mastercard doesnt provide chargeback rights for the situation in which 
Mr I found himself. In any event, the party Mr I paid, which isnt the party that 
scammed him, provided the service paid for  the changing of fiat money into 
cryptocurrency. 
The solicitors have also previously referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) and the banking protocol. However, the CRM doesnt apply to card 
transactions. And the banking protocol is only relevant to branch transactions which 
isnt relevant here. 
I accept Mr I has lost money. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which 
he finds himself, I dont find Starling did anything wrong, so I wont be making an 
award against it. 
Overall, I dont find Starling has treated Mr I unfairly or unreasonably by not reimbursing his 
losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman