DRN-3878259
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim she made on her home 
insurance policy for damage caused by subsidence.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs C got in touch with Covea in 2020 after she noticed damage to the side 
extension and front porch of her home.
Covea appointed a loss adjuster. It accepted the cause of damage was subsidence 
due to nearby trees. But it declined the claim because it said the design of both 
structures was defective or faulty.
Mrs C accepted the porch construction was defective due to its shallow foundation. 
But she didnt think it was fair for the extension to be considered defective. She took 
advice from an engineer, who Ill refer to as V, which supported her position.
Covea maintained it was fair to decline the extension claim. It said the foundation 
was 1,300mm deep. But based on the guidelines of a builder of new homes, N, it 
thought the foundation ought to have been 1,570mm deep. It noted roots and 
desiccated clay to a depth of 2,000mm. But it thought a foundation in line with Ns 
guidelines would have been sufficient to prevent movement within this 430mm layer.
V made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
oNs guidelines would suggest a slightly shallower foundation depth of 
1,535mm in these circumstances. But regardless, Mrs Cs extension wasnt 
built by N, so Ns guidelines arent relevant.
oTree roots were found to a depth of at least 2,000mm. So even if the 
extension had been as deep as Ns guidelines suggest, subsidence damage 
would have occurred anyway.
oThe extension complied with the Building Regulations of the time and 
received approval from Building Control.
oThe extension was built in 1997 and had stood without structural problems for 
over 20 years before the subsidence problem arose. This isnt in keeping with 
a defective or faulty design.
Coveas position didnt change, so Mrs C referred her complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator thought it should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded Covea had shown the 
foundation was defective  or that a deeper foundation in line with Ns guidance 
would have made a difference.
V told us Mrs C accepted what our investigator had said and queried three points:
oShould she receive compensation for the distress and inconvenience?
oCovea had initially refused to renew the policy but has since agreed to do so. 
However, it says it can only do so through a broker, but it wont tell Mrs C 
which brokers it works with. Can this situation be resolved?
oV charged Mrs C for his engineering advice. Should she be reimbursed for it?
After discussion with both parties, our investigator updated his findings:
oHe maintained it was unfair for Covea to decline the claim. It should now 
accept the claim.
oHad it done so earlier, Mrs C would have been spared a great deal of 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Covea should pay £500 compensation.
oAnd she wouldnt have had to turn to V for technical engineering advice. His 
£825 fee should be paid by Covea.
oWhilst Covea cant recommend a broker to Mrs C, it should take a pragmatic 
approach to helping her access a Covea policy through a broker. To do this, it 
could send her a list of brokers it works with or put her in touch with one who 
knows the background to this problem and can help resolve it.
An agreement wasnt reached with Covea. So the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept the porch damage can fairly be declined by Covea, so I wont 
consider it further. This dispute is about the extension, so thats what Ill focus on.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a number of terms and 
conditions. Covea has accepted the extension has been damaged by subsidence.
Covea has relied on a policy term to decline the claim. It says Covea wont pay for 
loss or damage caused by: faulty design or workmanship.
I understand Covea considers the depth of the foundation amounts to faulty design. 
As its relying on an exclusion, the onus is on Covea to show why it would be fair to 
decline the claim.
Covea has referred to guidelines by a builder of new homes, N. Ns guidance only 
applies when construction is under the supervision of N as part of a new home. That 
wasnt the case for Mrs Cs extension. So, the extension didnt need to comply with 
Ns guidelines and theyre not relevant here.
There has been much discussion about whether the damage would have occurred 
even if the foundation had been built to Ns guidelines. But since those guidelines 
arent relevant, I dont think further consideration needs to be given to this point. 
Its agreed the extension was subject to Building Regulations. Requirement A2 says, 
in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground movement caused by 
soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. Covea questions whether this point has been 
met because theres been subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage.
Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as Covea has suggested would 
produce a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy. The regulation document goes on to say that A2 will be met by 
following the recommendations and guidance in subsequent sections. So I think A2 is 
a broad aim, followed by more specific information about how to achieve it.
At the time this extension was built, the document didnt specify a minimum depth to 
meet the requirement. What depth was appropriate was a judgement call for the 
designer, builder and Building Control to make based on the site conditions.
In any case, its accepted that Building Control approved the foundation depth at the 
time of construction. Notes show it visited several times whilst the foundation was 
being laid. It told the builder to increase the depth beyond the original design and to 
remove a nearby tree. This indicates to me that consideration was given to the site 
conditions, including the presence and impact of vegetation.
Covea doesnt think those considerations were sufficient. It says the trees thought to 
be causing the current problem would have been clearly visible at the time of 
construction and their possible impact on the subsoil over time, taking into account 
their mature heights, wasnt reflected in the foundation depth.
Even if this were the case, I think its relevant to keep in mind that Building Control 
inspected the foundation, approved its depth and signed off the extension. So I can 
only conclude it was satisfied that relevant Regulation and guidance was 
satisfactorily taken into account. And, having received sign off from the relevant 
authority, Im satisfied Mrs C took appropriate steps to ensure the extension was built 
to the right standard. I dont think she could reasonably be expected to do more.
I also take into account that the extension had stood problem free for over 20 years 
at the time it suffered damage. V said this didnt indicate a defective design, noting 
there have been a number of subsidence surge events during that time. In those 
summers, the impact of very dry weather resulted in significantly more subsidence 
problems than usual. This extension resisted many such events, which doesnt 
support Coveas position that it was built to a defective or faulty design.
Overall, Im not satisfied Covea has shown the foundation design was faulty  or that 
it would be fair to decline the claim even if it was. As a result, Im satisfied it should 
now accept the claim.
After the subsidence claim was declined, I can understand why Mrs C turned to V, an 
engineer, for technical advice. His comments set out clearly and persuasively why he 
thought the claim should be accepted  and they align closely with what Ive said 
above. In my view, Covea should have accepted what V said. As a result, Im 
satisfied it would be reasonable for Covea to reimburse the cost Mrs C incurred for 
Vs engineering and technical advice. Thats £825. It excludes any cost Mrs C may 
have incurred for V acting solely as a representative.
Had Covea accepted the claim after considering the evidence, including Vs 
comments, the current position would have been reached over a year ago. Its 
disappointing to see that, internally, Covea acknowledged its position was unlikely to 
be accepted by this Service  but it continued to decline the claim anyway. Im 
satisfied Mrs C has been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience and I think 
£500 compensation would be reasonable redress in the circumstances.Lastly, Im pleased to see Covea has acknowledged the industry best practice to 
offer continued subsidence cover to Mrs C. Because it doesnt sell policies directly to 
consumers, it has told her she must buy one through a broker  yet it wont let her 
know which brokers it has arrangements with. This has created an absurd situation 
which leaves Mrs C unable to access the policy Covea is prepared to offer.
Covea should take the lead on putting this right by providing Mrs C with details of 
brokers through which she can arrange cover. I know Covea has concerns about 
providing advice when it shouldnt, but I dont think this amounts to advice. As our 
investigator outlined, there a number of ways Covea can resolve this pragmatically. It 
should remember that Mrs C is its customer and work with her to ensure she can 
access a Covea policy including continued subsidence cover.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Accept the subsidence claim for the extension.
Pay £825* for the cost of Vs engineering advice.
Pay £500* compensation.
Provide Mrs C with details of brokers through which she can arrange cover.

*Covea must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs C accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman