DRN-1855878
The complaint
Mr J took out a packaged bank account with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 2007 and he 
complains it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr J took out an Advance Plus Account (APA) in April 2007. 
The APA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance; price promise insurance; fee 
free cash withdrawals abroad; better rates for overdrafts, loans, credit cards and savings 
accounts; travel and leisure offers; home and car insurance discounts; identity theft 
assistance and a range of other offers. It cost £12.95 a month.
Mr J says that he was told he had to take the APA out in order to get a loan he wanted to 
consolidate his finances.
Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr J disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr J knew he had a choice whether to take out the APA, 
and whether he chose to do so.
Mr J had a fee free bank account with overdraft facilities and had taken out several loans 
before he took out his APA. 
At the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that he was aware that there was a 
range of fee free bank accounts and loans available from both HSBC and other banks and 
financial institutions. 
I say this because banking is a competitive market and bank accounts and loans were 
widely advertised and I think Mr J was an experienced user of banking facilities. 
So, if having a fee free account was important to him and an HSBC representative had told 
him that he had to have a fee-paying account to get a loan, I think he wouldve challenged 
this, checked elsewhere in the market and found what he wanted.
So, while I dont doubt Mr Js honest recollections, in my view his memory is mistaken, and 
he knew he had a choice whether to pay a fee for an account or not even if he wanted a 
loan, and he chose to take the APA out. 
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
APA to Mr J personally or advise him to take it out. Mr J says that HSBC did advise him to 
take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Js needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show me clearly 
that HSBC did make a personal recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing 
information to Mr J and explaining the benefits of the APA, HSBC may have said or implied 
that it was good idea to take out the APA. But this isnt the same as giving a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of HSBCs sales practices at the 
time, I think its more likely than not that HSBC sold the APA to Mr J on an information only 
basis. 
This means HSBC did not have to ensure that the APA was suitable for Mr J, but it did have to 
provide Mr J with good enough information about the APA so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think HSBC did. I say this because Mr J has said that he was aware he was being 
charged for the accounts; he used the preferential overdraft facilities on offer from the time of 
sale; and he benefitted immediately from a substantial interest discount on a large loan he 
took out at the same time he opened the APA. 
HSBC has also provided evidence that in later years Mr J travelled several times while he had 
the APA. So, he couldve made use of the travel insurance and the fee free cash withdrawal 
facility abroad.
I can see nothing in Mr Js personal circumstances that would have stopped him using the 
APAs benefits. And it was for him to decide what he wanted to use. He could also have closed 
the APA at any time after the initial 12-month period, but he didnt and still has it.
So, in my view Mr J knew he had a choice about the APA, and he chose to take it out. And I 
dont think there is anything HSBC didnt tell him that would have changed his mind and put 
him off taking out the APA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman