DRN-3965851
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined their claim on their home 
contents insurance policy.
References to Mr L or Mrs L, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of QIC involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to QIC.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs L and Mr L had a set of golf clubs stolen from inside their house. Mrs L 
was in the house at the time of the theft. 
Mr L made a claim on their home contents insurance policy that they held with QIC. Mr L 
said Mrs L was in the house when the theft happened.
QIC declined to settle the claim. It said the circumstances of the theft dont meet the policy 
terms. It said it would cover the theft if it had happened with entry to their home by force and 
violent behaviour or by deception. But it said there was no evidence of these.
As Mr L was not happy with QIC, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and there was no 
deception to obtain entry, and no evidence of forced and violent entry to Mr Ls house. 
Therefore they felt that QIC had investigated the claim and applied the policy term fairly.
As Mr L is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked into the circumstances of the theft. 
Mr L said on the evening of the theft, he returned to his home with his golf clubs and put 
them behind the front door. As his car had broken down earlier in the day he got the car keys 
from his wife who was in the lounge of the house. He then went outside to his car which was 
less than 50 meters away. He said he closed the front door behind himself but did not lock it. 
When he returned to his house his golf clubs had been stolen. He contacted the police to 
report the incident. He said he had not seen anyone enter his house. And during the theft his 
wife was in the lounge and did not hear anything abnormal - she wouldve thought it was him 
entering the house.
I looked at the police report. It confirmed a burglary had taken place. It said the suspect is 
assumed to have gained entry through the front door which had been left unlocked, and ajar, 
whilst Mr L was close by at his car on the front street. There were no witnesses. It said 
Mr Ls ring doorbell was not working so had not captured anyone entering. 
QIC said it declined Mr Ls claim because as there was no forced or violent entry into the 
property the policy did not cover the theft. It said due to the door not being locked at the time 
of the theft, this has not caused any damage or forced or violent entry to Mr Ls property. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy. On page 18 it says; 
Theft or attempted theft
We will cover loss or damage:
a. caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your home; or
b. where deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
In situations like this our service usually takes the following approach. We typically interpret 
force as some form of action or energy being applied to something. So, in this case turning 
the door handle to get into the house can constitute force.
Where a thief has used a lock pick or some other instrument to unlock a door or window we 
consider this violent even if there is no physical damage to the property. This is because 
someone has used a level of force over and above what would usually be necessary. 
In this case there was no need to use force over and above what would usually be 
necessary as the door was unlocked. The police report said the door was ajar, but Mr L said 
it was definitely closed. 
As Mr Ls policy says it will cover loss or damage following both force and violent entry, QIC 
has declined the claim within the terms of the policy.
Ive carefully thought about the circumstances of the actual theft to consider if reasonable 
care was taken to prevent it. 
In the terms and conditions of the policy it says on page 13;
 11. Reasonable care and preventing loss
a. You must take all necessary and reasonable steps to prevent or limit accident, injury, 
loss or damage to your buildings and contents or liability to others.
b. You must make sure that your buildings are maintained in a good state of repair.
c. You must keep the contents covered by this policy in good condition.
d. If any security measures are installed to protect the buildings (for example, window 
locks), you must use these whenever the buildings are left unattended, as well as 
when everyone in the home has gone to bed for the night.
If you make a claim under this policy and we decide that the loss, damage, liability, cost, or 
expense that led to the claim was caused or made worse by you failing to meet your 
obligations under this clause, we may refuse to pay the claim or we may reduce the amount 
of any payment we make for the claim, pay only part of the claim or we may cancel your 
policy.
Mr L said he took reasonable care to prevent the loss. He said he ensures that when the 
house is unattended the locks are used but as his wife was in the house and not in bed he 
left the door unlocked when he went out to the car.
 
I understand that this claim has caused Mr L a great deal of stress as well as impacting him 
financially due to the theft of the golf clubs. However I dont think he took reasonable steps to secure his golf clubs when he left them directly behind the unlocked door. As the door was 
not locked it allowed the thief to enter and steal the golf clubs without causing any alert to 
Mrs L. 
Having looked at the full circumstances of this claim, Im of the view that it was reasonable 
for QIC to turn it down. I dont think that QIC needs to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman