DRN-3281049
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make him aware that a payment holiday 
on his loan account would negatively impact his credit file
What happened
Mr L requested a payment holiday on his loan account in mid-2019 which Barclays 
approved. 
In January 2020 Mr L found out that the missed payments had been recorded on his credit 
file. But he says he was told  when he made the request, that the payment holiday wouldnt 
impact his credit file. So, he complained to Barclays. He said he wouldnt have taken the 
payment holiday if hed known the impact it would have.
Barclays looked into Mr Ls complaint. But it said Mr L had been told that there would be an 
impact on his credit file. However, it said Mr L had been given wrong information in     
January 2020 when he was told that the missed payments would be removed from his credit 
file when he cleared the arrears on his account. And it paid Mr L £40 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr L didnt agree with Barclays response and bought his complaint 
to us.
One of investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She agreed 
that Barclays had told Mr L that his credit file would be impacted during the call when he 
made his payment holiday request. She noted that Barclays had offered an additional £50 
compensation (making £90 in total) for the mis-information Mr L was later given, and she 
thought this was fair. So, she didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that his understanding from the call he had with Barclays was that 
the impact would be minimal and limited to recording that he had made an arrangement with 
Barclays. He also said he wasnt made aware the information would stay on his credit file for 
six years. And he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear the impact of having a payment holiday is having on Mr L. But to uphold his 
complaint Id need to be satisfied that Barclays had failed to tell Mr L that a payment holiday 
on his loan would impact his credit file. And I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Mr L says that Barclays didnt tell him that his credit file would be impacted by taking a 
payment holiday. I can see the that the investigator has already detailed what was said in 
the call, so I wont repeat that here. But I have listened to the call recording and - like the 
investigator, Im satisfied that the Barclays adviser told Mr L that his credit file and his credit 
score would be impacted by a payment holiday. Im also satisfied that the adviser on the call 
asked Mr L if he still wanted to continue with the payment holiday on that basis. And he 
confirmed that he did wish to continue.  
Mr L has said he thought this would be recorded as an arrangement. And a lender can 
record an arrangement to pay marker on a credit file. But this is generally done when a 
borrower and lender have mutually agreed to a reduced payment plan  where payments 
are still made but at a lower amount than the contractual amount. Ive not seen enough to 
make me think Barclays told Mr L that his request for a payment holiday would be recorded 
as an arrangement to pay. And even if it had, that would inaccurate given that in Mr Ls case 
the payment plan offered to him was to not make any payments at all for a limited period. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays should have considered a reduced payment 
arrangement for Mr L. But as the income and expenditure that Mr L went through on the call 
indicated that Mr L had a deficit in disposable income after expenditure, I dont think he was 
in the position to make any payments at that time.
In any event, even if a reduced payment had been agreed, an arrangement to pay marker 
would still be recorded on a credit file. And I think an arrangement to pay marker is likely to 
have the same impact as missed payments have - both suggest the borrower has struggled 
to pay the contractual repayments due. And arrangement to pay markers also remain on a 
credit file for six years even if contractual payments are later recommenced.
Mr L has also said that he wasnt told the information would remain on his credit file for six 
years. But I dont think Barclays was required to go into detail about the impact on his credit 
file, I think it did enough by letting Mr L know that there would be an impact.    
I note Mr L has also said that he is aware that payment holidays are quite common and dont 
result in a detrimental impact when agreed in advance. But I dont agree. I accept that some 
loan agreements make provisional for the account holder to take payment holidays for short 
periods of time during the life of the credit agreement. But thats not the case with all loans 
and it wasnt the case here. And during the covid pandemic lenders were required to offer 
payment holidays  without impact on their credit files, when their financial circumstances 
were temporarily impacted by the pandemic. But Mr Ls request for a payment holiday was 
before the pandemic started, so not a relevant consideration here.
Lenders are required to provide the credit reference agencies with data that accurately 
reflects how an account has been managed. And here, all be it with Barclays agreement,   
Mr L missed payments. So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong that would make me 
think that it should remove the missed payment information from Mr Ls credit file now. 
It may be helpful for Mr L to know that he can contact the credit reference agencies directly 
and ask to record a notice of correction  this means he has the opportunity to record his 
circumstances behind the missed payments. More information can be found here:
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html
  
https://help.equifax.co.uk/EquifaxOnlineHelp/s/article/How-can-a-Notice-of-Correction-help-
me-manage-my-finances
Its not in dispute that Barclays gave Mr L wrong information when he was told that making 
up the arrears would mean the missed payments would be removed from his credit file. 
Barclays has apologised to Mr L and it paid him £40 compensation. Barclays has since 
offered a further £50 compensation, i.e. £90 in total, for the inconvenience caused. I think this is fair given this mis-information has not detrimentally affected Mr Ls overall position. 
Barclays has confirmed that the additional £50 is still available. So, Mr L should contact 
Barclays directly if he now wishes to accept it. 
Mr L has raised further complaint points since referring his complaint to us. But as the 
investigator has explained, he will need to contact Barclays in the first instance so it can 
address those points before we can become involved.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint - in the sense, that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made an offer that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman