DRN-3875092
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society 
surrounding the requested opening of an account.
Mrs Hs complaint is brought to this service by her appointed representative, Mr G.
What happened
Mr G, who holds Power of Attorney for Mrs H, approached Nationwide to open a new current 
account for Mrs H and was promised a call back from Nationwide within 48 hours to 
complete that request. However, Nationwide didnt call Mr G back within that timeframe, and 
the account was only opened after Mr G himself called Nationwide back several days later. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at the complaint. They explained that their agent who had taken Mr Gs 
initial call had sent the request for a call back to the wrong internal email address, which had 
meant the request hadnt been received by the team that should have received it. 
Nationwide apologised for this, and they offered to make a payment of £150 as 
compensation for any trouble and upset Mrs H and Mr G may have incurred as a result. 
Mr G didnt feel Nationwides response to this complaint went far enough, so he escalated 
his complaint within Nationwide. This led Nationwide to reassess the impact the events in 
question had had, and to increase their offer of compensation to £350. Mr G wasnt satisfied 
with Nationwides response, so he referred this complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Nationwide had 
issued  including the apology, explanation, and offer of £350 compensation  already 
represented a fair and reasonable outcome to what had happened. Mr G remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I feel its important for me to clarify the role of this service and the remit of 
what we can and cant consider. This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, and 
so it isnt for this service to fine or punish a business or to declare that a business has 
acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful manner. Such declarations would be for a regulatory 
body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, the role of this service is to act as an informal dispute resolution service, with a 
remit based on fairness of outcome. This means that my considerations are largely limited to 
whether an unfair outcome has occurred, with a remit to instruct a business accordingly if I 
feel the present position of the issues being complained about remains unfair. 
In this instance, Nationwide dont dispute that they didnt provide the level of service to Mrs 
H and Mr G that they should have done, and theyve apologised for this and made an offer of 
£350 as compensation for any upset and inconvenience that may have been incurred. 
So, the questions I have to ask  as per the remit of this service as described above  are: 
Has Nationwide take the corrective action needed to practically resolve this issue? and, if 
appropriate: Has Nationwide made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to Mrs H, as 
the eligible complainant here, given the trouble and upset she appears to have incurred?.
Regarding the first question, the account that Mr G wanted to opened for Mrs H has been 
opened, and so Im satisfied that Nationwide have taken the corrective action to put Mrs H in 
the position she should have been in  i.e. holding a newly opened account  had 
Nationwide not made the errors that they did.
This leaves the matter of whether Nationwides offer of £350 compensation for the impact of 
their errors on Mrs H is fair. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one person often not being considered as such by someone else. But, given the full 
circumstances of this complaint, I do feel that the £350 already offered by Nationwide is a 
fair compensation amount here, and I can confirm that its in-line with the general framework 
which this service uses when considering compensation amounts (details of which can be 
found on this services website) and that its commensurate with what I might have instructed 
Nationwide to pay, had they not already offered to do so.
Im aware that Mr G is unhappy that, having referred this complaint to this service and then 
sought to escalate the complaint internally with Nationwide, that Nationwide then asked this 
service to pause our review of this complaint while they themselves considered it. 
However, the rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  include 
that this service can only consider a complaint after the business being complained about 
has had the opportunity to consider and respond to that complaint themselves. 
In practical terms, this means that when Mr G asked Nationwide to escalate this complaint 
internally and reconsider their position on it, it was correct for Nationwide to advise this 
service that such a request had been received and to ask us to not consider this complaint 
until theyd responded to the escalated complaint themselves.
Im also aware that Mr G is unhappy with how Nationwide investigated this complaint and 
feels that Nationwides complaint handling process should be considered by this service. 
But, as mentioned previously, this service isnt a regulatory body, and so how a company 
handles a complaint  even if that complaint is about a financial matter  isnt within the remit 
of what this service is permitted to consider. Rather, this service can only consider the 
specific issues that are being complained about, which in this instance were the delays in 
opening the requested new account and the service issues surrounding those delays.
Ultimately, having considered what happened here, I feel that the response Nationwide have 
already issued in regard to this complaint  including the explanation and apology for what 
happened, and the offer of £350 compensation for any trouble and upset incurred  already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
All of which means that, while I will technically be upholding this complaint in Mrs Hs favour, 
Ill only be doing so in order to formally compel Nationwide to honour the offer of £350 
compensation that theyve already made  should Mrs H (or Mr G in his role as Mrs Hs appointed representative) formally accept my final decision here  and I wont be recording 
any adverse outcome against Nationwide in this instance, given that Im satisfied that the 
response Nationwide have already made in regard to this complaint does represent a fair 
and reasonable resolution to whats taken place. 
I realise this mighty not be the outcome that Mrs H and Mr G wanted, but I trust that theyll 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £350 to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman