DRN-2544999
The complaint
Mrs H complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) charged her unfairly for damage to a 
car when she handed it back at the end of her hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In August 2013, Mrs H entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA to acquire a car 
that was just over one year old at the time. On its return at the end of the agreement, an 
inspection was carried out on the car in November 2016. The report recorded several 
damages to the car. PSA explained that this level of damage to the car fell outside the British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. As a result, 
they said Mrs H would be charged a total of £655 to cover this damage.
Mrs H says whilst she accepts the charge for the damage to the wing mirrors, she doesnt 
accept the other damages being charged for. Mrs H also said she didnt sign the inspection 
report, so she doesnt think its fair she is being asked to pay £655. Mrs H also said due to 
her financial situation, she doesnt feel shes able to pay this amount.
PSA said they werent able to obtain a statement from the inspector about who signed the 
inspection report as the inspection took place in 2016. And Mrs H didnt raise this concern at 
the time. PSA say they are happy to discuss setting up an affordable payment plan with Mrs 
H for the £655 that is owed.
Unhappy with PSAs response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mrs Hs concerns. In summary, she felt most of the damage was fairly charged 
for in line with the BVRLA guidelines. However, she didnt think it was fair for PSA to charge 
for damage to the front door mirror housing R as she felt this fell within the BVRLA 
guidelines. So, she recommended PSA remove the charge of £40 which brought the overall 
outstanding balance for the damages to £615.
PSA accepted our investigators view. But Mrs H didnt. Mrs H reiterated the damage she 
didnt agree with  namely the rust on the wheels and the damage to the front bumper. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs H was charged for the following items of damage (taken from the vehicle inspection 
report):
1.Service History Not present Recharge for 01 service £200
2.Front Alloy Wheel L Scuffed, Rim damage 
100m+Alloy smart repair £65
3.Front Alloy Wheel R Corrosion/Rust Alloy smart repair £65
4.Rear Alloy Wheel R Corrosion/Rust Alloy smart repair £65
5.Rear Alloy Wheel L Corrosion/Rust Alloy smart repair £65
6.Front Door Mirror 
Housing RScuffed up to 25mm Smart repair £40
7.Front Door Mirror 
Housing LScuffed 26mm-100mm Smart repair £40
8.Front bumper Scuffed 26mm-100mm Bumper corner £75
9.Front bumper moulding Scuffed 26mm-100mm Smart repair £40
Mrs Hs finance agreement includes a clause which says you will keep the vehicle in good 
conditioncarry out repairs and replace parts when necessary and maintain and service the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations.
The BVRLA has produced industry guidance to help determine what a finance company can 
charge for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as it represents good 
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. So, Ive taken this guidance into account 
when deciding whether PSA acted fairly and reasonably in the charges they applied. Ive 
looked at the photos of the damage from the inspection report provided by PSA and make 
the following findings on the items of damages from the above table:
1. The photo in the report shows the service record isnt stamped. I appreciate Mrs H 
says her partner checked over the car before she handed it back. But the terms of 
her agreement say its her responsibility to ensure the repairer stamps the vehicles 
service book each time the vehicle is serviced. As the evidence shows the record 
wasnt stamped, I think its fair for PSA to charge for this.
2. The scuff on the wheel rim is quite clearly visible from the photo. And I can see the 
ruler against the damage shows its more than 50mm which falls outside of the 
BVRLA guidelines. So, I think PSA have fairly charged for this item of damage. 
3,4,5.   As these damages relate to corrosion on the wheels, Ive addressed them    
together. The BVRLA guidance says any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of 
the alloy wheel is not acceptable. I can see the corrosion PSA have referred to in the 
pictures, so I think its fair for them to charge for these damages.
6. PSA say the scuff on this item is up to 25mm and have therefore charged for this. 
The BVRLA guidelines say scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable 
provided the molding or trim is not broken, cracked or deformed. Having looked at 
the photo of this damage, I cant see the molding or trim is broken, cracked or 
deformed. So, I agree with our investigator this damage charge of £40 should be 
removed.
7. The photo in the report shows multiple scratches and scuffs to the mirror housing 
which appear to be more than 25mm. So, I think its fair for PSA to charge for this 
damage. I note Mrs H accepts this damage.
8. PSA say the scuff here is over 25mm. For the same reasons Ive given above, from 
looking at the photo in the inspection report, I think PSA have fairly charged for this 
item of damage.
9. I can see from the photo in the report that there are multiple scratches in close 
proximity to one another. The ruler shows the scratches measure more than 25mm 
and the bare metal is showing. So, I think its fair for PSA to charge for this.
I note Mrs H has said she doesnt think she caused all the damage to the car. However, Mrs 
H hasnt provided us with any other information of who she thinks it might be or any 
evidence to persuade me that the damage was caused by someone else. In addition to this, I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs H raised this at the time the report was issued in 
2016. And I think it likely if she didnt think she caused the damage shes being charged for, 
she wouldve raised this at the time. 
Mrs H also says the signature on the report wasnt hers. PSA say due to the time that has 
passed since the inspection was carried out in 2016, they were unable to obtain any 
testimony from the inspector about this. Whilst I understand Mrs Hs concerns, I dont think 
this diminishes her liability for any damage caused to the car that falls outside of fair wear 
and tear, as per the terms and conditions of her agreement. In any case, I can see from the 
inspection report that theres two notes to say Mrs H disagreed with the findings in the 
report. Id interpret these comments as the inspector having noted Mrs H had concerns 
about the damage being reported, but seemingly didnt think that changed anything  as they 
found the damage to fall outside of fair wear and tear. I think the inspector recording this 
information suggests they did at least consider Mrs Hs comments regarding the damage.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs H, but I think it was fair for PSA 
to charge for most of the damage as set out in the inspection report. However, for reasons 
Ive already provided, I dont think its fair for PSA to charge for the damage to the front door 
mirror housing R. Therefore, I think PSA should remove this damage charge of £40 from the 
total amount owing. This means Mrs H now owes £615. 
I note Mrs H has told us she doesnt think shes able to afford to repay the outstanding 
amount. PSA have said theyre prepared to set up an affordable repayment plan for Mrs H 
and I think this is fair. Mrs H should contact PSA directly to discuss her repayment options if 
she wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this decision. And I direct PSA Finance UK Limited 
to remove one of the damage charges from the overall amount owed as explained above, 
leaving Mrs H with £615 to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman