DRN-3460261
The complaint
Mr E complains Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One, have unfairly closed his 
credit card account and did not pay him the cashback hed accrued.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the credit card say Capital One reserve the right to close 
a credit card account, providing it gives at least seven days notice. In this instance, 
Capital One wrote to Mr E in September 2021 and gave him two months notice of 
the account closure.
Capital One have told Mr E during subsequent calls the decision to close the account 
was reached in line with their internal lending policy.
I appreciate Mr Es comments and his frustration that he is unable to obtain any 
further context regarding the closure. But a lender can decide who it provides credit 
to and isnt obliged to provide further information about its lending criteria, as it is 
commercially sensitive and confidential.
So, I think Capital One has acted in line with its terms and conditions, and it gave 
Mr E a reasonable period of notice the account would be closed. Considering all the 
information available, Im not persuaded Capital One has treated Mr E unfairly.
Neither Mr E or Capital One have been able to provide a copy of the specific, full 
terms and conditions regarding the cashback promotion on the account. However, 
Capital One have provided an excerpt regarding the promotion. The wording sets out 
rebates would be paid each January, as Mr E has described, so I think it relevant 
here. 
But this wording also sets out no rebate will be payable if the agreement is 
terminated or the account is closed. So, Im not persuaded Mr E would have been 
due a rebate in these circumstances.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman