DRN-2885319
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the difficulty he had attempting to change his address details 
held by his pension provider ReAssure Limited (ReAssure).
What happened
Mr W attempted to change his address details by email but unfortunately ReAssure did not 
offer this as an option for customers when they needed to change their address details. It 
explained that for security reasons it required either a wet ink signed request, or the 
change could be made during a phone call following specific security questions being 
answered.
Mr W remained unhappy with these options. He explained the postal option would take too 
long and due to waiting times and the cost of calling from Australia to make changes this 
option was also not suitable.
ReAssure was unable to offer Mr W a different method of changing his address.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought ReAssure had acted fairly, so 
didnt think it should have to do anything to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed, so 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 March 2020 Mr W emailed ReAssure to amend his address details. On 2 April 2020 
ReAssure responded to Mr Ws email asking him to return a change of address form in the 
post.
Mr W sent ReAssure a different pension providers form by email and also attempted to call 
ReAssure but unfortunately the offices were closed.
ReAssure replied to Mr W with a further copy of its address change form. Mr W explained he 
would not return a postal copy of the form as the postal system would take too long. He was 
also unable to contact customer services.
ReAssure sent a letter to Mr W explaining that its security processes required a signed form. 
ReAssure wrote a second letter to Mr W explaining the change of address could be made by 
post or over the phone.
I appreciate what Mr W has told us, and that the options ReAssure offered him to change his 
address details were not convenient. But ReAssure has explained that these processes are 
in place for security reasons and as a service we are unable to ask any business to change 
its processes as we are not the regulator.
I think the options ReAssure gave Mr W to change his address were reasonable and I dont 
require it to do anything to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman