DRN-1885084
 
The complaint
Company L complained about Tradewise Insurance Company Limited. They arent happy 
that a claim was turned down under their commercial motor trade insurance policy. 
What happened
L took out commercial motor insurance with Tradewise through their broker. Unfortunately 
they had to make a claim following the theft of a vehicle and Tradewise turned down the 
claim. This was because the vehicle was an import and hadnt been registered in the United 
Kingdom. And claims for vehicles not registered in the UK within 28 days were excluded 
under the policy.
L wasnt happy about this and thought that the clause wasnt fair and didnt take account of 
how their business operated. L highlighted that they often dealt with vehicles that were 
imported and that it can often be difficult to get a vehicle registered in the UK within the 
specified time frame. As Tradewise maintained its position L complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into this complaint but didnt uphold it. Although she acknowledged 
that the whole situation mustve been very difficult for L, she didnt think that Tradewise had 
done anything wrong. It had simply relied on a clause in the policy that was brought to Ls 
attention when they took out the policy and was clear in the policy documentation and the 
key facts document. 
As L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position L has found itself. They have simply been 
the victim of crime and had their vehicle stolen. But I have to be fair to both sides. And 
Tradewise has a specific clause in the policy that excludes theft if a vehicle isnt registered in 
the UK within a month of purchase or being placed on cover. So I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in turning down the claim as the vehicle wasnt registered nearly a year later.
As a commercial customer I would expect L to know what insurance cover it required. I 
understand that L buys vehicles that have been seized by public authorities and some of 
these are imported. I know L has disputed what imported means and says that it isnt defined 
in the policy. But I think it is clear that the stolen vehicle wasnt registered in the UK and is 
what someone working in the motor industry would call an import. Again I would expect L to 
query this with Tradewise when it took out cover if it had any doubt about this. But the 
exclusion refers to any non United Kingdom registered vehicle in any event so I think it is 
clear.However, Ls main points here is that they werent aware of the clause; that they werent 
able to meet the timescale of 28 days as it could take up to six weeks to register a vehicle in 
the UK; and that the clause didnt fit with the way it operated its business.
I can see that it can take up to six weeks to register a foreign vehicle in the UK so I can 
understand Ls point. And given the nature of Ls business they may not know when a 
vehicle first came to the UK. But I think it is likely in most cases that it would take less than 
six weeks to register a vehicle in the UK. And if L took steps to register the vehicle as soon 
as they bought it then it wouldve been registered, and so insured, by the time it was stolen. 
But L bought this vehicle about a year before the theft and it still wasnt registered in the UK. 
So it cant be argued that L was acting within the spirit of the policy as it was nearly a year 
down the line. In any event, as L said, they just werent aware of the clause as opposed to 
being unable to get the vehicle registered in time.
Ive looked at whether Tradewise did anything wrong here and whether L ought to have been 
aware of the clause. And I think L shouldve been aware. I say this as the clause was clear 
within the policy documentation and as Ive said I expect a company (such as L) to take 
greater care in ensuring any insurance is fit for purpose and covers the way their business 
operates. I know L argues that the clause wasnt outlined within the statement of fact. But it 
was in the key facts document (KFD), which gives a helpful summary of the policy and 
highlights significant exclusions (like this one), so I think the policy documentation was clear 
enough.
Furthermore, Ive listened to the call when L took out the policy with the broker. Although I 
accept that the questions and discussion around importing vehicles could have been clearer 
L did say that it didnt deal with imported vehicles. And L didnt correct Tradewise or the 
broker about the fact that it deals with imported vehicles when they received the policy 
documentation. And I wouldve expected them to, given the nature of their business.
Overall, Im satisfied that L shouldve been aware that any European vehicle can be used 
under the policy but has to be registered in the UK within 28 days. I say this as it was clear 
enough from the telephone call when the policy was taken out; from the policy 
documentation; and, importantly, it was outlined in the KFD. So, I dont think it is unfair for 
Tradewise to rely on the clause. 
Finally, the clause is on the motor trade policy for a number of reasons including ensuring 
the vehicle exists and is registered in the UK so it can be traced back to the owner. And, 
importantly, that the vehicle meets UK standards and is roadworthy - after all Tradewise is 
responsible for insuring the vehicle while it is used on public roads and if it is stolen.
So, given the nature of Ls business I would expect them to ensure that the policy covered 
their needs. And as I think the clause was clear; that Tradewise didnt want to insure 
vehicles not registered within a month in the UK; and L had been in possession of the 
vehicle for nearly a year. I cant say that Tradewise has done anything wrong in turning down 
the claim in line with the clause, which says it shall not be liable under this Insurance 
whilst any non United Kingdom registered vehicle is in the custody or control of the Insured 
or permitted driver, once the vehicle has been in the United Kingdom for a period exceeding 
28 days.
I know this will come as a disappointment to L, but I have to be fair to both sides. And as 
Tradewise hasnt done anything wrong here Im not upholding this complaint.
 My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman