DRN-4180764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy and 
that it later failed to tell them that they hadnt taken out optional Travel Disruption Extension 
(TDE) cover.
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and Ill refer to Staysure throughout my 
decision.
What happened
On 27 January 2020, Mr and Mrs P took out a single trip travel insurance policy online. The 
policy was sold by Staysure and underwritten by an insurer Ill call G. Mr and Mrs P were 
due to travel abroad on 8 March 2020. On 4 March 2020, Mr P contacted Staysure to make 
a new medical declaration for Mrs P. Cover was agreed for Mrs Ps new medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs P travelled abroad as planned. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
their return flight to the UK was cancelled. Mr and Mrs P incurred costs in making return 
travel arrangements to the UK and they made a claim for those costs on their travel 
insurance policy. 
G turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Thats because it said the only section of the policy 
which wouldve covered their situation was the TDE. However, Mr and Mrs P hadnt taken 
out this optional cover when they purchased the policy.
Mr and Mrs P felt that Staysure had mis-sold the policy to them. They said it had been 
marketed as comprehensive cover and that theyd therefore concluded that it covered all 
eventualities. They also felt that given public knowledge about the impact of Covid-19 by 
early March 2020, Staysure shouldve drawn their attention to the fact that they didnt have 
TDE cover when Mr P called to declare Mrs Ps new medical conditions. They considered 
that if Staysure had done so, they wouldve paid the additional premium for TDE cover and 
their claim wouldve been accordingly covered by G. So they felt theyd lost out because of 
Staysures failure to highlight the lack of TDE cover to them. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Staysure had made the option to buy TDE cover sufficiently clear during the online 
application process. And he didnt think Staysure had had a responsibility to highlight the fact 
that Mr and Mrs P didnt have the TDE extension when Mr P called to declare Mrs Ps new 
medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I dont think Staysure has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether Staysure mis-sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs P and whether it had a responsibility, in March 2020, to draw their 
attention to the fact that they hadnt taken TDE cover. A complaint about Gs decision to turn 
down Mr and Mrs Ps claim was considered separately by another ombudsman.
It's common ground that Mr and Mrs P took out this policy online, in late January 2020. Ive 
seen no evidence that Staysure carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ps demands and 
needs during the sale and so I dont think it recommended that they should take out the 
policy. This means it didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for them. But it did 
need to give Mr and Mrs P enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
to allow them to decide if it was right for them.
Staysure has provided me with a copy of the sales process Mr and Mrs P wouldve followed 
when they took out the policy. Mr and Mrs P were presented with the option to take out the 
Basic or Comprehensive levels of cover. Core Comprehensive cover offered substantially 
higher levels of cancellation, curtailment, medical expenses and baggage cover than the 
Basic policy, along with additional core sections in the form of personal liability and legal 
protection cover. Mr and Mrs P opted for the Comprehensive level of cover.
Mr and Mrs P were next offered the option to Personalise your policy. This set out a list of 
optional add-on covers, with the premium for each add-on displayed adjacent to each option. 
Immediately underneath each optional head of cover was a hyperlink to more information 
about that section for a potential policyholder to read. Included in this list was the option to 
tick and add the TDE cover. If a customer clicked on the more information link, there was a 
list which explained the cover the TDE provided and the policy limits. 
In my view, Staysure clearly set out the cover levels which applied and gave Mr and Mrs P a 
clear choice to explore what the TDE cover did. I also think it gave them a clear option to 
add it to their core policy if theyd wished to. All parties accept that Mr and Mrs P didnt add 
TDE cover to their core policy.
Following the sale of the policy, Staysure needed to send Mr and Mrs P a copy of the policy 
documents. Im satisfied it met this obligation. It wasnt responsible for the drafting of the 
policy terms. But for completeness, Ive looked carefully at the policy documentation. I can 
see that the policy terms includes a Table of Benefits which sets out the core sections of 
cover and applicable limits. Immediately underneath is a second table of benefits, which is 
titled optional sections of cover. The policy says that these sections of cover are available if 
an additional premium has been paid and if theyre shown on the policy validation certificate. 
TDE is shown as an optional add-on at the top of this table. Theres no indication that it 
forms part of the core policy. And neither of Mr and Mrs Ps validation certificates showed 
that theyd chosen to add TDE cover, nor that theyd paid an additional premium for it either. 
Mr and Mrs P say they believed that as theyd bought Comprehensive cover, they were 
covered for all eventualities. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality. And as 
Ive said, I think Staysure gave Mr and Mrs P the option to add on non-core covers to their 
core policy during the sales process. So I dont think it would be fair for me to find that 
Staysure provided unclear or misleading information about the type of cover Mr and Mrs P 
had purchased.
I think that the totality of the information Staysure gave Mr and Mrs P about the policy cover 
was clear enough to allow them to decide whether it was right for them. I find that Mr and 
Mrs P were given a choice about whether or not to add on TDE cover during the policy sale and that the documentation they were sent post-sale was clear enough to show that they 
hadnt bought the TDE. This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold to them.
Did Staysure fail to meet its information responsibilities in March 2020?
Both parties agree that Mr P called Staysure to go through an additional medical screening 
for Mrs P in March 2020, shortly before their departure. Mr and Mrs P think that given the 
developing situation regarding Covid-19, Staysure ought to have drawn their attention to the 
fact that they didnt hold TDE cover.
Given the time thats passed since the call, Staysure no longer has a copy of it. I dont find 
thats unreasonable. Mr and Mrs P have said that Mr P would most likely have asked 
whether he and Mrs P were fully covered or good to go during that call. Its impossible for me 
to know with certainty what was said. But I need to bear in mind the purpose of the call  to 
make additional medical declarations for Mrs P and to check whether G would be prepared 
to provide cover for them. It appears that a further declaration was made and that the policy 
was accordingly amended.
As Ive explained, Staysure didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs P should take out the policy 
and I wouldnt reasonably have expected it to provide them with any advice about the level 
of core or add-on cover they held during medical screening either. I dont think it had a 
responsibility to check whether Mr and Mrs P were fully covered for potential travel 
disruption (or any of the other optional add-ons they hadnt taken out) , let them know that 
they didnt have TDE cover or to ask whether they now wanted to buy it. It simply needed to 
ensure that it carried out screening correctly so that G could decide whether or not to cover 
Mrs Ps new conditions. Ive seen no evidence that Staysure made any error in terms of Mrs 
Ps additional medical screening.
So whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ps position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket for reasons beyond their control, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that 
Staysure shouldve highlighted the lack of TDE cover to them during the call of 4 March 
2020.  This means that Im not telling Staysure to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman