DRN-2769386
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Unum Limited declined a claim made on a group income protection 
policy she had the benefit of.
What happened
Miss G has the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through her employer, 
which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work sick for 26 weeks (the 
deferred period). 
Miss G was absent from work in early October 2018 and she was signed off work by her GP 
with depression with effect of 15 October 2018. She remained off work and GP certificates 
stated the reason she was unbale to work as either depression or anxiety and depression. 
A claim was made on the policy towards the start of 2019.
Unum considered the claim and declined to pay the benefit under the policy. It concluded 
that there wasnt enough to establish that Miss G was incapacitated as defined by the policy 
throughout the whole of the deferred period. Miss G didnt think that was fair, so appealed 
Unums decision. Unum maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Miss G complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss G disagreed so her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Thats not to say that Miss G hasnt been through a difficult 
time. However, based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Unum has unfairly 
declined the claim made on the policy.
Unum has a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. When making a claim, its for Miss G to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period.
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if theyre unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and are not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was actively undertaking for (the policyholder) immediately prior to incapacity
Miss Gs role was mainly sedentary in nature. 
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum unfairly declined Miss Gs claim.
In support of her claim, Miss G completed a claim form dated April 2019. On it, she said that 
she was recovering from depression and symptoms of anxiety. And this affected her ability 
to think, process information and interact with others. 
Ive considered Miss Gs GP notes: 
In October 2018, its reflected that Miss G had low mood, anxiety and difficultly 
coping with work.
In November 2018, its reflected that Miss G still felt low and tearful and not ready to 
face everybody at work. Theres mention that there will be occupational health input 
and then a planned return to work. Theres also mention of Miss G undergoing 
counselling which was helping, and her anti-depressant medication dosage being 
increased.
In December 2018, its reflected that she was open to  and thinking about - a 
phased return to work, that she was feeling a bit better on increased medication 
although her mood does get low.
Miss G continued to be signed off work but theres nothing in her GP notes about the impact 
Miss Gs depression/anxiety was having on her between January 2019 and, when the 
deferred period ended, in early April 2019. And how her conditions affected her ability to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her role.
Miss G says she hadnt realised that she would be disadvantaged by not making 
appointments to see her GP particularly during the second half of the deferred period. And 
her GP has said in a letter dated October 2019 that they wouldnt have expected to see Miss 
G every month having ascertained that work was impossible given her medical problem. 
But ultimately, its for Miss G to establish that she was incapacitated as defined by the 
terms of the policy  not just that she had been diagnosed with depression/anxiety. I accept 
that she had GP certificates reflecting that she was unable to work covering the entirety of 
the deferred period, that she was undergoing counselling and her anti-depressant 
medication had been increased. However, Unum has concluded that there was not enough 
medical evidence to provide an understanding of Miss Gs reported restrictions and 
limitations throughout the deferred period. And considering the medical evidence in this 
case, I think thats fair and reasonable.
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Miss G says she suffered a relapse 
after December 2018, when her GP records indicate an improvement in her symptoms and 
that she was contemplating a (phased) return to work. But her GP records dont reflect this.
And the vocational rehabilitation report dated late April 2019  so a few weeks after the end 
of the deferred period  reflects that Miss G was feeling a lot better than during the initial 
stage of her absence and that her concentration was much improved; she was able to knit 
and attend a night class once a week. It also reflects that there were no reported limitations 
to her memory or communication, and that her mood had improved significantly. 
I know Miss G will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that her complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the 
parties involved.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman