DRN-2453219
The complaint
Mr C complained about Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited. He said he hadnt taken out a 
contract for a phone, and hed never received a phone which Virgin said had been delivered 
to his home.
What happened
On 19 December 2019, a Virgin mobile phone contract was taken out in Mr Cs name. The 
application was made by phone and later electronically signed. Mr Cs correct postal address 
was given, but the email address was different from the one Mr C later said was his.
Theres a disagreement about what happened next:
- Mr C says that no phone was delivered to his home;
- Virgin says that the phone was delivered to Mr Cs home by a courier. It said that the 
courier obtained a signature at 11:57 on 20 December.
On 8 February 2020, Mr C rang Virgin. By then, there were £90 of arrears on the account. 
Mr C told Virgin that hed missed a payment because of confusion about the payments. He 
paid the full amount of the arrears. The amount of future direct debits was confirmed to Mr C, 
and he said he was ok to make the payments in future.
On 19 February, Mr C rang Virgin again. He said he hadnt ordered any handset, and hadnt 
received a phone. He said the reason hed paid £90 on the previous call was because hed 
just paid it without knowing what it was about.
On 18 March, Mr C complained to Virgin. Virgin didnt uphold his complaint. It said a contract 
had been taken out on 18 December 2019 with its telesales team, for a three year contract. 
Virgin said it always got a Consumer Credit Agreement e-signed before sending out a 
handset, and it said Mr C had e-signed on 19 December. And it said the phone had been 
delivered to Mr Cs home address the next day. Virgin told Mr C that its fraud team had 
investigated, and had found Mr C was liable.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said the email address on the Virgin 
account was different from his, and someone must have had his bank details to set up the 
direct debits. The investigator asked Mr C if he still had his bank card, and he said hed been 
pickpocketed abroad the previous year, but the current bank card was still in his possession. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He noted that the phone had been sent to 
Mr Cs home address, and there wouldnt have been any benefit to a fraudster in doing this. 
He also pointed out that Mr C had given three different explanations for why hed paid £90 to 
an account which Mr C had said wasnt his. So the investigator didnt believe someone else 
had taken out the phone contract in Mr Cs name.
Mr C wasnt satisfied. He said he hadnt taken out the phone, and it hadnt been delivered to 
his address. He said hed taken out a phone contract with another provider in October, so he 
wouldnt have wanted another phone. He said he always dealt with his phones in store, not 
by phone. He said hed paid the £90 because he was getting letters saying he owed the 
money and his mother had told him to pay. Mr C also said that it was ruining his credit score 
and giving him stress he didnt need. He wanted it sorted and out of the way. He also said 
that the call recordings would show that someone different had taken out the contract, from 
his own calls with Virgin.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont always have all the evidence wed like, and here, its disappointing that Virgin cant 
provide either the signature / address / reference number on the couriers document from 20 
December 2019, or the call recordings from the initial set-up call, or Mr Cs later calls with 
Virgin. Its especially disappointing these werent kept when there was a known dispute. In 
particular, the initial call recording would have helped considerably in determining whether or 
not Mr C took out the contract.
When the evidence is incomplete, as here, I take my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened, taking into account the evidence which is available and the circumstances 
of the complaint.
Phone delivery
The couriers delivery confirmation document is of limited use as evidence, as it doesnt 
include either the address, Virgin order number, or signature. Delivery signatures can 
sometimes be unclear squiggles, but the lack of an address or order number means the 
document doesnt categorically prove that it was delivered to Mr Cs address. 
However, the account shows completed for the same date as the couriers delivery 
confirmation. And Virgin only sends phones to a customers registered address. So I think 
its more likely than not that the phone for this order was delivered to Mr Cs address on 20 
December.
Other issues around opening the account
Mr C said that the email address for opening the account was different from his. I dont 
consider this proves that Mr C didnt take out the contract, because its not unusual to have 
more than one email address.
The credit agreement was also electronically signed, not signed with a signature. I dont 
consider that an electronic signature proves that it was Mr C who took out the contract.
But Ive borne in mind that there wouldnt be any benefit to a fraudster of getting a phone 
delivered to Mr Cs address, because they couldnt use it. So this makes it more likely that it 
was Mr C who took out the contract.
Ive also considered Mr Cs arguments that he already had a phone with another provider, 
and got his phones in shops not over the phone. But neither of these necessarily proves that 
Mr C didnt take out the Virgin phone.
Payment, and phone calls in early 2020Its not disputed that Mr C paid £90, clearing the arrears at the time, on 8 February 2020. Its 
not clear why Mr C would have made such a payment if he hadnt taken out the phone. At 
various times, Mr C gave Virgin, and this service, different explanations:
- In the call when Mr C paid the £90 on 8 February, Mr C said he hadnt paid before 
because of confusion about the payments needed. He agreed to make future 
payments;
- In the call on 19 February, Mr C said he hadnt taken out the contract and hadnt 
received a phone. He said the reason hed paid the £90 was that hed received a 
letter and had paid it without knowing what it was about;
- Mr C told our investigator that the reason hed made the £90 payment was that he 
wasnt able to talk to Virgin about the account unless he paid the arrears.
- In his response to the investigators view, Mr C said hed paid the £90 because hed 
been getting letter after letter and his mother had told him to pay it.
I consider its most unlikely that any customer who really hadnt taken out a phone contract 
would have paid £90 to the arrears. And when Mr C did pay that £90, theres no record that 
he said anything about not having taken out the phone. Thats very surprising. The first 
mention of that is on the later call on 19 February. Im also not persuaded that Virgin would 
have refused to speak to Mr C about the phone until hed paid the arrears.
But most of all, the fact that Mr C didnt give a consistent story casts doubt on his version of 
what happened. If he really hadnt taken out the contract, Id have expected him to have 
contacted Virgin straightaway when he received the first letter about the direct debit  and to 
have stuck to a consistent and believable version of events.
So I find that its most likely that Mr C took out the phone contract himself. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman