DRN-3033663
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance) handled the finance arrangements relating to a kitchen he bought.
What happened
Mr H bought a kitchen from a third party, W, who undertook to supply and fit it. He paid a 
deposit and W arranged finance for the remaining amount through Barclays Partner Finance. 
The finance arrangement involved a 12-month interest-free period, which meant that if Mr H 
repaid the loan within that time, he wouldnt incur interest. Mr H says Barclays Partner 
Finance released the money to W early, and before he was satisfied the kitchen had been 
supplied and installed to his satisfaction.
According to the timeline Mr H provided, there were numerous problems with the kitchen. 
The fitting arrangements werent kept and Mr H says he ended up fitting the kitchen himself. 
Mr H says W removed the fitting element of the contract without his agreement. He was also 
dissatisfied with Ws attempts to rectify the other problems hed identified, and with the fact 
W had sought release of the loan funds from Barclays Partner Finance. He sought a price 
reduction from W, along with compensation for his time and costs.
This dispute went on for some considerable time, such that the interest-free period had 
almost passed. Mr H was unhappy that Barclays Partner Finance had released the loan 
funds to W and he was still unhappy with the kitchen. He felt Barclays Partner Finance was 
acting unreasonably and made a complaint.
In response, Barclays Partner Finance told Mr H it had concluded the loan hadnt been 
wrongly activated. It said it had received notification from W that the fitting aspect of the 
contract had been removed, and adjusted the loan balance accordingly. Barclays Partner 
Finance further said it had refunded the cost of a damaged kitchen unit, along with a nominal 
payment in recognition of Mr Hs inconvenience in raising his complaint. Barclays Partner 
Finance noted Mr H had said he wanted to withdraw from the finance agreement. It told Mr H 
this would result in cancellation of the credit agreement, subject to him paying the remaining 
loan balance.
Since then, W has made a number of offers to settle Mr Hs claim against it. Our investigator 
noted those proposals, and made further enquiries of Barclays Partner Finance to establish 
the loan position. He also noted Barclays Partner Finance had said it was still willing to 
agree to Mr Hs withdrawal from the credit agreement and remove any missed payment 
information as long as he repaid the outstanding balance before the end of the 12-month 
period, being 16 September 2021. Although Mr H said he wanted the agreement cancelled 
and that he would pay W directly, the investigator wasnt persuaded to recommend this, and 
so the matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays Partner Finance gave Mr H a loan to pay for his contract with W. The loan in 
question is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974). Of potential relevance 
to the issues in Mr Hs complaint are the provisions the CCA1974 contains detailing the 
lenders responsibilities in relation to the actions of a third party supplier of goods or 
services, and to withdrawal from the agreement.
Section 75 of the CCA1974 deals with the former of these responsibilities. One effect of 
section 75 is that, where an individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided 
under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that individual can 
bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way 
he could against the supplier. The supplier here was W; Barclays Partner Finance was the 
lender. Mr H has made a claim for breach of contract against W. He potentially has the same 
claim against Barclays Partner Finance.
Barclays Partner Finance appears to have considered that claim to a point, but Mr Hs 
complaint to us doesnt focus on the lenders response to that issue. Although Mr H has 
provided extensive  and if I may say, most helpful  information on the back and forth of his 
attempts to rectify things with W, his complaint to us talks mainly about the activation of the 
loan and Barclays Partner Finances actions in seeking payment from him.
Im also conscious that the passage of time means that since Mr H made his complaint, a 
number of events have occurred that affect the claim he might originally have had against W. 
Not least of these is that W has made a significant offer in settlement of that claim.
I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays Partner Finance failed to deal with Mr Hs section 
75 claim appropriately when it sent him its response in November 2020. The lender 
acknowledged Mr Hs right to bring the claim, that the nature of the contract between Mr H 
and W had changed to one of supply only, and made an offer to reimburse Mr H for what it 
considered it was liable. It also provided an explanation in respect of those aspects of the 
claim for which it considered it wasnt liable.
That doesnt mean Mr H isnt able to go back to Barclays Partner Finance to see if it is willing 
to revise its position in respect of the claim. But given W has already made an increased 
offer to settle that same claim, while noting the provisions of section 75 it doesnt strike me 
as appropriate for me to make the same requirement of Barclays Partner Finance in the 
context of resolving this complaint. Mr H is able to consider Ws proposal and decide for 
himself whether to accept or to pursue that claim further, either against W or Barclays 
Partner Finance.
Mr Hs focus in this complaint has been about whether Barclays Partner Finance was wrong 
to release the loan funds to W and subsequently, whether it has acted unfairly in asking him 
to repay the balance.
On the first point, Mr Hs agreement with Barclays Partner Finance says that it will pay the 
amount of the loan to W once the loan is approved and signed, or  if later  when W 
supplies the goods or services. Although Ive noted what Mr H says about the funds being 
paid to W earlier than they should have been, I find the available evidence persuasive that 
Mr Hs loan account itself began on 17 September 2020. Even if Barclays Partner Finance 
paid the money to W at an earlier point, Im satisfied this caused no material disadvantage to 
Mr H.
Mr Hs original contract with W was for the supply and fitting of the kitchen. Due to the issues over the kitchen fitting, W sought to remove that aspect from the agreement, arranging for 
the respective sum charged to be refunded against the loan balance. Mr H disputes that W 
was entitled to take such action without his agreement. But in any event W did not fit the 
kitchen; Mr H did. The amount in question was applied as a credit to the loan account on 24 
September 2020. So again, Im not persuaded this issue  while no doubt a matter for 
concern for Mr H  has caused him any detriment.
Ive previously mentioned the right afforded under the CCA1974 (and stated on the loan 
document) for Mr H to withdraw from the credit agreement. Section 66A of the CCA1974 and 
the credit agreement both say that he can do so, subject to certain conditions including 
repaying the loan where the money has been paid to the retailer.
I appreciate Mr Hs arguments are founded to some degree on the fact he believes Barclays 
Partner Finance should not have paid the money to W. I follow the line of thinking; if 
Barclays Partner Finance had not done so, he wouldnt now have to pay it back. Be that as it 
may, Barclays Partner Finance did advance the payment to W. That paid for the kitchen 
supplied to Mr H. Im not persuaded hes being treated unfairly by being asked to pay back 
that money to Barclays Partner Finance, given that it offered to allow him to do so at no 
additional cost.
I realise that if Mr H is not in a position to repay Barclays Partner Finance in full from readily 
realisable funds, he might instead need to borrow the money to do so. That, though, is not 
materially different from the position he expected to be in when he took out the buy now, pay 
later loan. Alternatively, Mr H can presumably start making payments under the original loan 
terms, which would avoid the need to find an alternative source of funding.
Barclays Partner Finance has said if Mr H proceeds to withdraw from the agreement and 
pays off the balance, it will ensure no adverse payment information is shown on his credit 
file. I think this is a fair position to take, though if Mr H accepts my decision I would expect 
Barclays Partner Finance to take any relevant steps to amend Mr Hs file now, to avoid 
payment data causing difficulty should he need to borrow money to repay the debt.
Barclays Partner Finance should also extend the date by which Mr H needs to make his 
chosen arrangements, so that he has sufficient time both to consider the options available to 
him and to secure alternative funding should he choose that option. In my view, an extension 
until 14 November 2021 would provide enough time for Mr H to make his choice and notify 
Barclays Partner Finance of it. After that date, if Mr H hasnt repaid Barclays Partner Finance 
in full and hasnt made arrangements to continue the loan, the lender will be at liberty to 
record any appropriate missed payment information.
My final decision
While I think the lenders existing proposal represents a reasonable way to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint, I think it would be appropriate to ensure Mr H has sufficient time to accept it and 
for it to be enacted. I also think it should recognise the possibility that Mr H may have no 
alternative other than to proceed with the original finance arrangement.
With this in mind, my final decision is that to settle Mr Hs complaint, Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) should take the following steps:
1. On receipt of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision, take appropriate steps to remove 
any missed payment information or other adverse data it has recorded on Mr Hs 
credit file in respect of the loan account;
2. Write to Mr H to inform him of the options available to him to deal with the remaining loan balance, for his reply by 14 November 2021. Those options should include (but 
are not limited to) Mr H repaying the outstanding loan balance in full as a lump sum 
payment, and allowing Mr H to recommence the loan agreement on the originally 
agreed repayment schedule, save for monthly repayments commencing 14 
November 2021;
3. Suspend any interest on the loan balance until 14 November 2021. Any interest 
already calculated or charged should be refunded
4. In the event that Mr H accepts Ws proposal to resolve his breach of contract claim, 
allow him to make a lump sum payment against the loan balance if he wishes to do 
so. If he does, the loan payment schedule Ive referred to in 2. should be recalculated 
from that point
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman