DRN-3397768
The complaint
Mr T complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) failed to provide him with 
documentation about the maturity of his fixed rate bond.
What happened
Mr T held a fixed rate bond with YBS. The bond matured on 31 December 2020 and a 
maturity pack outlined the options he was able to select from at that time. However, YBS 
received no instructions from Mr T prior to 31 December 2020, so they carried out the 
default maturity option. This resulted in the proceeds being reinvested into a fixed rate 
access bond with an interest rate of 0.45%, for 12 months.
Mr T is unhappy as he says he didnt receive any documentation prior to the maturity date, 
so was unable to make an informed choice about what to do with the bonds proceeds. He 
complained about this to YBS, who told him they sent the relevant documentation on 11 
December 2020.
As Mr T maintains he never received this, he was unhappy with YBS response and referred 
his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered it but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr T disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.
YBS have provided a screenshot of their internal system, showing a record of when letters 
were sent out to Mr T. This clearly shows that one letter was sent to him in the month of 
December 2020, on the 11th. YBS have also provided a copy of the maturity pack. Its dated 
December 2020 and is addressed to what I must assume is Mr Ts correct address - it is the 
same one he included on his complaint to YBS and the same one he has provided to our 
service.  
I can see Mr T feels strongly about this matter. Hes pointed out that the same thing 
happened to a family member, during the same time period, and that this must indicate a 
problem caused by YBS. 
I dont doubt Mr Ts testimony that he didnt receive the maturity documentation. But in order 
to uphold this complaint against YBS I must first establish that YBS did something wrong. 
And Ive seen nothing to demonstrate that this is the case.
It is unfortunate that Mr T did not receive the maturity pack prior to the maturity date. But I 
have to consider whether YBS did what would reasonably be expected of them in the 
circumstances. I am satisfied that they did - they issued the correct documentation, on time, 
and to the correct address. Whilst I understand Mr T says it never arrived, I have not seen 
enough to say that this was due to YBSs actions. The fact Mr Ts family member may not 
have received their maturity pack either does not demonstrate to me that there is a 
systematic issue with YBS here. There are other factors that could have impacted postal 
delivery in December 2020, namely the ongoing effects of the Covid pandemic, and the 
busy Christmas period. 
The postal system can, on occasion, be inconsistent or unreliable. This is further 
demonstrated in this case as Mr T sent our investigator a letter which was never received by 
our service. I do not have enough evidence here to say that Mr T failed to receive his 
maturity pack due to the postal services actions. But I also do not have enough to say Mr T 
failed to receive his maturity pack due to YBS actions. So I am unable to ask them to 
compensate Mr T as he has requested. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman