DRN-2739508
The complaint
Miss S complains about the suitability of a life assurance policy sold to her in 1994. 
Responsibility for the sale of the policy now sits with Sesame Limited. 
What happened
The policy sold to Miss S gave her two sorts of cover. One would pay an amount of money  
the sum assured  to her estate if she died. The other would pay her money if she 
developed one of the critical illnesses listed in the policys terms. The sum assured was set 
up to increase over the years, to keep up with inflation. That in turn meant Miss S had to pay 
increasing monthly amounts  the premium  to have the policy. 
Miss Ss complaint focusses on her circumstances in 1994. She says she had no 
dependents or mortgage debts, meaning she didnt need to leave a large sum of money to 
her estate if she died. And shes said her job at the time would have given her sick-pay and 
benefits if shed got ill. 
Sesame have said they feel the cover had been suitable for Miss S. They also felt it was now 
too long after the sale of the policy for her to bring her complaint to us. Ive made a separate 
decision about the time limits that apply to this case, explaining why Miss S had raised her 
complaint in time.
Our investigation of the merits of Miss Ss complaint hasnt gained much documentation from 
the time of the sale. Thats not too surprising, given it took place in 1994. But our investigator 
thought about Miss Ss recollection that she had no dependents and was solely responsible 
for her own finances. 
He found that showed a need for the critical illness part of the policy. If Miss S had become 
ill, there didnt seem to be anyone else to support her financially. But he couldnt see a 
reason for Miss S to leave money to her estate if she died, given she had no dependents or 
major debts to repay. He said that meant the life cover part of the policy wasnt suitable for 
Miss S in 1994. 
Sesame said theyd accept that view to resolve the complaint. They worked out that if Miss S 
had only had critical illness cover over the years, shed have paid a little less to have the 
policy. They said a remedy of £5,435.94 would put things right in the way our investigator 
had suggested. 
Miss S felt this was a little low, given how much shed paid for the policies over the years. 
She asked for the case to be looked at again, so its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator, for much the same reasons. With no 
one financially dependent on Miss S in 1994, she seems to gain little from a policy that 
would leave money to her estate. The cost of that cover therefore seems like an 
unnecessary and unsuitable expense for her. 
But having no one to support her financially if she became ill shows there could have been a 
benefit to Miss S in having critical illness cover. I appreciate she had a job that included sick-
pay and other benefits. But those could have been affected if Miss S became so ill she 
couldnt keep working. So I find the recommendation to have critical illness cover was 
suitable to the circumstances Miss S has described. 
Putting things right
Our first thought when resolving complaints is to try to put people in the position theyd have 
been in if theyd received a fair and reasonable service. For Miss S, thats the position shed 
have been in if Sesame had recommended she have critical illness cover, without also 
recommending she have life cover. 
The main difference would be to the premium she paid to have the policy. Sesame have 
worked out what she would have paid by looking at the policies that were available to 
provide just critical illness cover in 1994. Theyve then taken an average of the cost of these. 
I find that reasonably reflects that any specific provider might not have agreed to give Miss S 
cover.
Sesame have then worked out the difference between this average cost and the premium 
Miss S paid for her combined life and critical illness cover each year. Theyve factored in the 
increases to the sum assured that were part of the original policy. And theyve taken account 
of the policy reviews over the years where Miss S chose to decrease the sum assured rather 
than paying a higher premium. 
By doing that, I find Sesame have taken reasonable account of how Miss S would have 
chosen to maintain the policy over the years. 
Sesame have then added simple interest of 8% to the difference in cost. This is reasonable, 
to reflect that if Miss S hadnt paid the money towards the policy, shed have been able to 
use it some other way and potentially make a gain from doing so. Theyve accounted for tax 
on that interest too. I find thats reasonable, and for Miss S to pursue with HMRC if she 
doesnt feel she should pay tax on it. 
Finally, the figure Sesame have worked out deducts the surrender value Miss S received 
when she ended her policy. Thats a reasonable deduction, given Miss S already has that 
money.
Having looked in detail at Sesames calculation, I find the final total  a payment of 
£5,435.94  will be enough to put Miss S in the position shed have been in had she received 
suitable advice in 1994. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint that Sesame Limited shouldnt have recommended life cover for 
her in 1994. To put this right, Sesame Limited should pay Miss S the difference in cost 
between the policy she had and the cost she would have paid if shed just had a policy giving 
critical illness cover. They should also pay simple interest on any refund - at 8% - and factor 
in any tax incurred, and the surrender value Miss S has already received. 
Sesames calculation  saying this will be a total payment of £5,435.94  appears to comply 
with the remedy Ive decided is needed, up to the date of the calculation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman