DRN-4155051
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd unfairly blocked and closed his account. 
What happened
Mr F had an account with Revolut.
In August 2022, carried out a review on Mr Fs account. Whilst it completed the review 
Revolut blocked Mr Fs account, which meant he wasnt able to use the account or access 
any funds held in his account.
 
Following its review, Revolut decided to close Mr Rs account. Revolut wrote to Mr R giving 
him 60 days notice that it intended to close his account in October 2022. 
Mr F says the block to his account was inconvenient and meant he wasnt able to cover the 
cost of travelling to work. He also says that when he contacted Revolut about what was 
happening with his account Revolut wouldnt give him any information, which he found 
frustrating and time consuming.
Mr F complained to Revolut. In response, it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had 
decided to block Mr Fs account. And it said that it had closed his account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to our service. He wants 
Revolut to provide an explanation why it closed his account, to reopen it and pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought Revolut hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Fs account. Mr F disagreed. He wants to know why 
Revolut closed his account. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks and financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of 
the information Revolut has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr F, but Id like to 
reassure him that I have considered everything.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Revolut has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be 
summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and 
detect financial crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  
Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr F was operating his account, Im 
satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance with these obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Fs account. It was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. So 
I cant say Revolut has treated Mr F unfairly when it restricted his account. 
I next turn to the closure of Mr Fs account. Banks and financial businesses are entitled to 
decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank or financial business must keep a customer. But 
they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
At times, following a review, financial businesses and banks sometimes choose to end their 
relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank or financial 
business isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr F decided to 
stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. I understand Mr F wants 
Revolut to explain the reason it closed his account. But Revolut is under no obligation to tell 
Mr F the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I 
cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr F this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so.
I appreciate that it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. And I 
acknowledge what Mr F has said about how Revoluts actions impacted him. But Revolut 
have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account when it decided to close it. The 
terms explain that Revolut can close the account with notice by providing a customer 60 
days notice. Having looked at all the information available to me, including Revoluts actions 
and the information its provided Im satisfied that Revoluts decision to close Mr Fs 
accounts was reached legitimately and fairly. Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions 
and circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Revolut acted in line with them, so, it 
was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I wont be directing Revolut to 
reopen Mr Fs account.
In summary, Im satisfied that Revolut treated Mr F fairly when it blocked and closed his 
account. 
My final decision
My final decision, is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman