DRN-1711928
The complaint 
C Ltds complaint is about The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) and its handling of a 
remortgage application. C Ltd had a knotweed report done before making the application 
and sent it to TMW via its broker to find out if the property would be acceptable. It said that 
TMW said it would be acceptable if the knotweed was more than 7 metres away from the 
property and C Ltd said it would take the risk.
C Ltd wants £1900 to cover the cost of the treatment needed to complete the application as 
it said if TMW had told them this would be required before applying, it wouldve applied 
elsewhere. TMW said the later valuation found the knotweed was closer than 7 metres and it 
shouldve told C Ltds agents on 15 May 2019 that it needed to see the warranty for the 
treatment plan to proceed. It paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Part of this complaint is about the definition of being within 7 metres of the property. 
The report originally sent to TMW said that the knotweed was more than 7 metres 
away from the building but within the boundary; the definition applied by the valuer 
who undertook the later valuation said that the knotweed was within 7 metres. 
Neither party is at fault for this issue as neither C Ltd nor TMW carried out the 
surveys. And nothing was said about whether the knotweed would need to be treated 
to allow the application to proceed when the query was first raised - a property can 
be acceptable subject to a treatment plan being in place. C Ltd didn't ask if treatment 
would be required and TMW didn't volunteer the information.
But the knotweed was within 7 metres and the valuer advised that if the application 
was to succeed, a treatment plan was required. I cant say that this is unfair or 
unreasonable as lenders are able to set their lending policies, provided that theyre 
applied fairly and reasonably, and rely on professional advice. Given the concerns 
about damage that can be caused by knotweed, and the fact that TMW was originally 
told the knotweed was further away than it was, I think the application of the policy 
here was fair and reasonable.
In order to continue with the application, C Ltd had to pay for the treatment and it 
chose to do so. Im not persuaded that because TMW gave information originally on 
the understanding that the knotweed was more than 7 metres away, its fair and 
reasonable for it to refund the costs. Theres also no evidence before me that another 
lender wouldve accepted the application without the work being done. And the 
commencement of the treatment led to the amended valuation allowing the 
application to proceed.
C Ltd says that the treatment plan wasnt needed as shown by TMW's letter received 
on 15 May 2019 withdrawing the retention. The letter says the mortgage can proceed after the updated valuation had been received. The valuer is an independent 
professional and its fair and reasonable for TMW to rely on such advice. And by this 
point the treatment had been started; this led to the retention was removed. It doesnt 
mean that the treatment wasnt required and I think the letter couldve been better 
worded.  TMW agrees and this is partly why its paid compensation.
TMW couldve have warned the broker early on that if the valuers assessment of the 
distance between the dwelling and the knotweed was less than 7 metres, a treatment 
plan would be required. I appreciate that TMW was told that a survey had been 
carried out and the knotweed was further away, and that lenders cant cover any 
eventuality when dealing with preliminary enquiries. TMW also did mention that the 
offer was subject to the valuer's views, which was correct; it was the valuer's advice 
which led to the requirement for treatment and the later withdrawal of the retention. 
But TMW's initial response did create an expectation that C Ltd saying in writing that 
it would take the risk would be sufficient, and that was unfair and unreasonable. 
Taking the evidence and all the circumstances into account, I dont think the costs of 
the treatment should be refunded, but £200 compensation is more than fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by the failure to clearly set out the full 
position on 15 May 2019. C Ltd is a limited company and so cant suffer trouble and 
upset, though its directors can be inconvenienced.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman