DRN-1128305
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two credit cards for which payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies were taken out. Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
The cards were taken out in 1997, and the first available statements in 2000 shows there 
being PPI on both cards. So Lloyds sold the policies at some point between 1997 and 2000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that these policies were mis-sold  I'll explain why.
Neither side still have the original documents from the time, which is understandable given 
just how long ago these policies were sold. But Ive looked at Lloyds sales process for this 
type of policy during the period of these two sales. And from what Ive seen, it looks like 
Lloyds wouldve offered Mr A the choice to take or turn down PPI, and in order to get 
each policy he wouldve needed to actively choose it. So I think its most likely that Lloyds 
made it clear Mr A didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take these two policies  
though I can certainly understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended these policies to Mr A, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend them, so to be fair to Mr A, Ive assumed they 
did. That means Lloyds had to check each policy was right for him  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that they were. For example, it looks like Mr A 
was eligible for the policies and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr A was entitled to sick pay through work, it reduced to just a fraction of his normal 
pay after less than four months, whereas the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work 
benefits and covered him for up to twelve months in each claim. Mr A also had savings, 
though these wouldnt have covered his salary for that long if he lost his job or his sick pay 
ran out. And the PPI meant Mr A could effectively protect his savings and use them for other 
things instead of having to sacrifice them to pay his credit cards. So it looks like these PPI 
policies couldve been useful for Mr A in his circumstances.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like Mr A was affected by any of the key 
things the PPI didnt cover, and it would have been useful for him in case something went 
wrong. And the policies were paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr A could cancel them at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put him off taking it out on either occasion. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But for the card ending -4829, Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A, 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so they should have told Mr A about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds have paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium on his card ending -4829  and I think that 
is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
I have not found that these two policies were mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on his card ending -4829. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman