DRN-1592200
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that One Insurance Limited didnt provide him with a hire car after hed 
been involved in a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Mr R purchased a guaranteed hire car policy with One Insurance, as an add-on policy to run 
alongside his motor insurance policy with Insurer S. Both policies were sold to him by his 
broker. Mr R was involved in a road traffic accident and he claimed on his policy with One 
Insurance. But they didnt provide him with a hire car.
Mr R has complained about One Insurances refusal to provide a hire car. Hes unhappy with 
the reasons given for this refusal, and that he was told he was being protected from potential 
additional costs by One Insurance not providing the hire car.
Our investigator found One Insurance had acted reasonably. He said the terms of their 
policy meant a hire car would only be provided in the event of an accident where the claim 
was covered by Mr Rs motor insurance policy. Because the Insurer S hadnt accepted the 
claim, and One Insurance didnt have confirmation the claim would be accepted, the 
investigator didnt think One Insurance had done anything wrong.
The investigator explained that, if Insurer S didnt accept the claim and Mr R had already 
been provided with a hire car, then he wouldve been responsible for the full costs of the hire 
car. So he agreed that One Insurance were protecting Mr R from potential additional costs 
by not providing the hire car when asked. The investigator also explained that we werent 
able to look into Mr Rs concerns about how One Insurance were regulated, and that hed 
need to raise these concerns with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. Hes queried the relationship between One 
Insurance, the broker and the accident management company (AMC) who dealt with the 
claim against One Insurances policy. Hes also queried the One Insurances regulatory 
status as theyre not based in the UK.
Mr R has also said he was mis-sold the guaranteed hire car policy and was accused of 
making a fraudulent claim. He finds this accusation highly offensive. He believes that One 
Insurance didnt comply with the terms of the policy he purchased, and if they had done, they 
shouldve provided a hire car when he first asked them to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R said he tried to get a courtesy car through Insurer S. But they couldnt provide one 
because the claim was on hold, pending an investigation into acceptance. So he called the 
broker about the policy with One Insurance, who passed him onto an AMC to deal with this 
claim. Mr R was told by the AMC that One Insurance couldnt provide a hire car for the same 
reason as Insurer S  because the claim hadnt been accepted yet. He was also told this 
was to protect him against potential future costs. When the AMC tried to explain why this 
was the case to Mr R, they referred to hire car costs being recoverable when fraudulent 
claims are made. Mr R believes he was being accused of making a fraudulent claim.
The terms of Mr Rs policy with One Insurance were If you have a fault claim incident, a hire 
vehicle will be given for events mirrored by your insurance cover level. This applies where 
your vehicle is out of action when directly affected by an insurance claim and a vehicle is not 
available from your insurer. The Insurance Product Information Document also confirmed 
In the event of an insurance claim  and your insurer does not provide you with a vehicle. 
We will provide you with a hire vehicle.
This means for One Insurance to be able to provide a hire car, Mr R would need to have 
been involved in an accident that resulted in his car being out of action; he wouldve had to 
have made an insurance claim, and his insurer wouldve had to say he wasnt entitled to a 
courtesy car under the terms of his motor insurance policy.
Its not disputed that Mr R was involved in an accident that resulted in his car being out of 
action. Mr R notified Insurer S of the accident, and they had to do some investigation before 
they accepted the claim. One Insurance have said a hire car can only be provided once a 
claim has been accepted and the insurer has confirmed that no courtesy car was available. 
Because Insurer S hadnt accepted the claim, they werent able to confirm that Mr R wasnt 
entitled to a courtesy car under the terms of their policy. So, One Insurance werent able to 
provide a hire vehicle under the terms of the guaranteed hire car policy. While I accept this 
was inconvenient for Mr R, as he relied upon his car for work, I cant say One Insurance did 
anything wrong  without any confirmation from Insurer S, the terms of the guaranteed hire 
car policy werent invoked. 
And I dont think Insurer S saying the claim was on hold pending investigation changed this. 
While it meant that Mr R couldnt get a courtesy car from Insurer S before the claim was 
accepted, it didnt mean he wouldnt get one once the claim had been accepted. If Insurer S 
said no courtesy car was available after the claim had been accepted, thats when One 
Insurance wouldve been able to provide a hire car.
Mr R has said that the AMC made him feel he was making a fraudulent claim by the way 
they answered his questions about the potential to recover costs. The AMC are separately 
regulated by the FCA, and my decision is about the service provided by One Insurance, not 
the AMC. So I cant comment on what the AMC said. 
But I agree with the investigator that, if One Insurance had provided Mr R with a hire car 
when he first asked, and if Insurer S had subsequently refused to accept the claim, then he 
wouldve been liable to pay the hire car costs. While this couldve been explained better to 
Mr R, this doesnt mean he was being accused of making a fraudulent claim. Claims can be 
refused for many reasons, and a refusal doesnt automatically mean that the claimant is 
suspected of fraud.With regards to Mr Rs concerns over the relationship between One Insurance, the broker 
and the AMC, and his concerns One Insurances regulatory status, this is not something this 
service can consider. Any concerns of this nature need to be directed towards the FCA - our 
jurisdiction doesnt extend to regulatory matters.
And if Mr R believes he was mis-sold the guaranteed car hire policy, this is a complaint he 
needs to raise with the broker. One Insurance werent involved in the sale of this policy, so I 
cant hold them responsible for whether it was suitable for Mr Rs circumstances or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about One Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman