DRN-4311682
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has declined to refund transactions that he says he 
didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
Mr B, a sole trader, has a business account with Monzo. Hes disputing four payments 
totalling around £5,000 made from this account which were all made to a bar in Poland on 
24 and 25 February 2023.
Mr B says that he was in Poland at the time and had bought a round of drinks using an 
account he holds with a different bank, but he didnt make these payments. He says 
someone moved money from other accounts he holds into his business account with Monzo 
and then used those funds to make the disputes payments. Mr B says the activity on his 
account should have looked suspicious to Monzo.
Monzo says that Mr Bs Monzo debit card was added to Google Pay on 24 February 2023, 
and that this was approved in Mr Bs mobile banking app. This was then how the disputed 
payments were made.
Mr B says that he doesnt remember approving anything in this Monzo banking app or being 
asked for any information or to make payments. And that his phone remained on him. 
Monzo declined Mr Bs claim and said that the timeline of events meant it wasnt possible for 
someone else to have authorised them. It also gave Mr B two months notice that it would be 
closing his account. Mr B complained about this but Monzo said it had acted correctly in the 
circumstances.
When Mr B referred the matter to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said that there was no plausible point of compromise for Mr Bs phone or 
mobile banking passcodes to explain how a third party could have been able to approve 
setting up Google Pay in his Monzo app. So, they didnt think Monzo had acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Bs claim. They also said Monzo had given notice to close Mr Bs account in line 
with the account terms and conditions.
Mr B didnt accept this, he said he didnt set up Google Pay or make the transactions. 
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
The disputed transactions all took place using a newly set up Google Pay token. As 
part of setting this up, the token was confirmed in Mr Bs Monzo banking app.
Mr Bs Monzo banking app was only set up on one device and this was the same one 
as when the account was first set up earlier that month. So, the evidence supports 
that Mr Bs genuine phone was used, and that his secure passcode was used to set 
up Google Pay.
Mr B says that he had his phone in his possession, and that he doesnt remember 
approving anything in his Monzo app or sharing this secure information. 
Unfortunately, this is inconsistent with the evidence available. And so, I dont think 
Monzo has been unreasonable in concluding that Mr B did set up Google Pay and in 
treating the payments as authorised. 
Whilst it is possible that Mr Bs involvement didnt extend to making each payment 
himself, based on what hes told us I cant fairly conclude that its more likely than not 
that he wasnt aware Google Pay had been set up, and therefore that payments 
could be made. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to attempt to establish which 
payments I think Mr B potentially was and wasnt aware of given hes told us he 
wasnt aware of any. This is relevant because Mr B has asked us to consider why 
Monzo didnt identify the activity as suspicious in the circumstances. But in order for 
me to make an award on this basis I would need to conclude that an appropriate 
intervention likely would have led to at least some of the payments being prevented. 
And as Ive said, the information Ive been provided with doesnt support a clear point 
at which Mr B stopped consenting to the payments being made.
So, for the reasons above I think Monzo has fairly declined to provide Mr B with a refund in 
the circumstances. 
Mr B has also expressed dissatisfaction around Monzos decision to close his account. 
Under the relevant terms and conditions, Monzo can do so provided it gives two months 
notice of its intention to do so. Monzo did that here and on the information available I cant 
see that it has applied this unfairly. Ive thought about what Mr B has said about this and his 
experience with Monzo, but in the circumstances I dont think Monzo needs to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman