DRN-4329312
The complaint
Miss O complains about the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(DG) under a protection policy for her tumble dryer.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
What happened
Miss O had a protection policy with DG covering breakdown and repairs to her tumble dryer. 
In March 2023 the tumble dryer door began opening mid-cycle and the dryer stopped. She 
called out an engineer who inspected the dryer and said the parts needed to repair the dryer 
were no longer available, so under the policy DG would offer a like-for-like replacement. 
DG provided a link to a service through which Miss O ordered a replacement dryer. 
However, when the dryer arrived it was a different size and fitting to her old tumble dryer, 
and a different specification. She contacted DG and arranged for the dryer to be returned. 
She said she explained to DG the size and model of her old dryer several times and how 
important it was to have an appropriate replacement, given her family circumstances, 
including a vulnerable child. 
She was provided with a new link to choose a replacement to meet her needs. She says she 
was told the link would only have models that  unlike her old dryer  didnt have a vented 
outlet, as this was no longer a feature of dryers available. Miss O was offered a model of the 
same size as her old dryer, although of a different make. DG say they waived a £265 
upgrade fee, as a goodwill gesture, as they had to order a replacement from a different 
supplier (as Miss O didnt want a replacement from the same supplier).
The replacement arrived, with Miss O having to pay for installation (the policy didnt cover 
installation of integrated appliances  something Miss O says she wasnt aware of when she 
took out the policy). She used a local fitter to install the dryer, rather than pay the £90 
installation fee the DG supplier would have charged. 
However, Miss O found the dryer took much longer to dry clothes and when she received 
her electricity bill in the following months, found the cost had increased significantly. She 
contacted her electricity supplier to see why her bill had increased so significantly. They 
asked whether she had any new appliances that might be faulty. She told them about her 
new dryer, and they suggested she test it. She turned off every other appliance and ran the 
dryer for 15 minutes, during which time the cost shown on her smart electricity meter 
increased by £2. Her electricity company said this indicated a fault with the dryer.
She called the dryer manufacturer, as the dryer was under warranty, who said the dryer was 
a blow heat pump; model which wasnt ideal for use by a family as electricity consumption 
was three times that of a vented dryer  it wasnt faulty. The manufacturer suggested this 
should have been made clear to Miss O before it was ordered (which she didnt think had 
been the case). Miss O contacted DG to ask them to change the dryer. After speaking to 
several people, she was told they wouldnt, as shed used it for six weeks.
Unhappy at what had happened, Miss O complained to DG. She said shed been misled 
about the replacement dryer, hadnt been given appropriate information to make an informed 
choice and was left with a dryer she couldnt use because of the high electricity cost.  She 
asked DG to cover the additional cost of electricity and to change the dryer.
DG didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they said that listening to the call in 
which Miss O discussed a replacement dryer, Miss O said she didnt mind what kind of 
replacement dryer was provided as long as it didnt consume too much electricity. DG 
offered a model with a condenser (as opposed to vented) with a heat pump and A+ power 
consumption rating. DG said Miss O didnt object to the model being a different 
manufacturer. DG said they wouldnt replace the dryer because its electricity consumption 
was high as the appliance had been installed and used for six weeks.
Miss O then complained to this service, saying shed been misled about the replacement 
dryer and couldnt use it because of the high running cost. She was paying for her policy to 
cover a dryer she couldnt use. She wanted DG to cover the increased running cost and 
replace the dryer with a more suitable model.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought it reasonable for DG to replace Miss Os 
old dryer, as the parts werent available to repair it. DG accepted there was an issue with the 
initial replacement being too big, but this was because the wrong model was delivered, 
which the investigator didnt think DG could be held responsible for. And it was reasonable 
for DG to arrange a further replacement.
On the replacement dryer, the investigator noted its energy rating (A+) was better than Miss 
Os old machine (C) and the type of dryer (condenser with heat pump) was the only one 
available as vented models were being phased out. The investigator noted DGs comment 
the replacement dryer being a heat pump model could take longer to dry clothes and costs 
could increase if used on a quicker drying cycle. 
Based on these findings, the investigator thought DG couldnt have done anything differently 
to put Miss O in a better position, or that Miss O had lost out. So, he didnt ask DG to replace 
the dryer. The replacement also had a larger drum size, which was likely to increase costs. 
And the policy documents made it clear installation costs wouldnt be covered. But as the 
manufacturer indicated there could be an issue with the dryer, the investigator thought it 
reasonable for DG to arrange for the dryer to be inspected to confirm it was working correctly 
(and consider replacement if found not working correctly).
The investigator also thought DG should pay Miss O £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered, from their refusing outright to replace he machine (or have it 
checked to see if it was working correctly).
DG disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They didnt think they should be responsible for arranging an inspection of the 
replacement dryer. Had Miss O reported an immediate fault or damage to the appliance 
when delivered, they would have assisted in liaising with the supplier. But Miss O hadnt 
reported an issue with the dryer until two months after it was delivered. DG didnt believe the 
indications were that there was a fault with the dryer, but if there was this would be an issue 
for the manufacturer (as the dryer would be under the manufacturers guarantee). 
The policy terms and conditions made it clear that faults under the manufacturers guarantee 
werent covered under the policy. So, if Miss O thought there was a fault with the dryer 
(excessive electricity consumption) she should contact the manufacturer directly to arrange a 
call out. This wasnt something DG would be responsible for (where an appliance was under 
the manufacturers warranty/guarantee).Given these points, DG didnt think they should pay Miss O compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Miss O has told us about her circumstances and 
vulnerability of her child and the impact on her. Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is 
my role here, whether DG have acted fairly towards Miss O.
The key issue in Miss Os complaint is the increased electricity consumption (and cost) of 
her replacement dryer. She says this makes it unaffordable to operate, meaning shes 
paying to cover an appliance under her policy she cant use. DG say they arent responsible 
for what may be a fault as this would be the responsibility of the manufacturer under the 
dryers guarantee/warranty. Had Miss O reported an immediate fault or damage when the 
replacement dryer was delivered, they would have assisted her in liaising with the supplier 
(and/or manufacturer). But Miss O waited six weeks after using the dryer before raising her 
concerns, so she should contact the manufacturer.
While this is the key issue of the complaint, Ive first considered the point about installation 
costs of the replacement. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions (which Miss O was 
provided with when she took out the policy) and they explicitly state these arent covered 
where a replacement appliance is provided. Under a heading Product disposal and delivery, 
installation and other costs theres the following statement:
In all cases you will be responsible for installing the new appliance and paying any 
related costs.
I think this makes it clear Miss O would have to pay for the replacement dryer to be installed. 
Coming back to the main issue, Ive looked carefully at the sequence of events set out 
above, including the respective views of Miss O and DG. The first replacement dryer having 
been the wrong size to fit into Miss Os property (it appears the wrong model was delivered) I 
think it was reasonable for DG to arrange for it to be returned and for her to choose a second 
replacement. While mistakes can happen, this would have led to delay in Miss O having a 
replacement dryer that did fit, which would have caused her inconvenience. Ill consider this 
alongside my other findings and conclusions.
On DGs point that Miss O didnt report the potential fault (the increased electricity 
consumption) when the dryer was first delivered, Im not persuaded this is fair or reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case. While the dryer wasnt obviously damaged or failed to work 
when first operated, the issue Miss O has is with its electricity consumption in use (and the 
length of time she says it takes for clothes to be dried). 
I think its reasonable for Miss O not to become fully aware of the impact shes raised about 
electricity consumption until she received subsequent electricity bills, which she could then 
compare with the bills before the replacement dryer. While she may have been concerned at 
the drying time, the impact of that (and the operation of the dryer more generally) wouldnt 
have been fully apparent until the subsequent electricity bills arrived. 
So, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable for DG to say that Miss O not telling them about 
the issue of electricity consumption for six weeks means they shouldnt be held responsible 
for any issue (or liaising with the supplier or manufacturer to arrange an inspection).Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what DG should do to put things right. 
From the evidence Ive seen, while Miss O says her electricity consumption has increased 
significantly, Ive not seen anything that clearly shows there is a fault with the dryer. Ive 
noted the points made by DG about the replacement dryer being a heat pump model 
meaning it could take longer to dry clothes and costs could increase if used on a quicker 
drying cycle. These are points about how the dryer is used, not directly ones that indicate a 
fault with the dryer.
On Miss Os request for DG to reimburse her for increased electricity costs, DG say this is 
an indirect cost under the policy terms and conditions. Theyve referred to the following 
policy condition:
costs or loss arising from not being able to use your product (e.g. hiring a 
replacement), or incidental costs caused by breakdown or repair (e.g. costs to 
remove or reinstate built-in or fitted equipment):
While this doesnt explicitly refer to costs (direct or indirect) arising from a replacement 
product, as the replacement was a result of the breakdown of Miss Os old dryer, I think it 
reasonable to interpret the condition to include costs of using a new product.
Ive also noted DGs observation that all manufacturers in the UK have discontinued vented 
and condenser-style dryers, meaning customers only options are heat pump models. So, 
Miss O would have had to choose such a model (whether under the DG policy or had she 
simply purchased a new dryer had she not been covered by the policy). 
But having made an internet search, there are vented tumble dryers advertised from major 
retailers as being available, albeit at lower energy efficiency ratings (C) than the A+ rating of 
the replacement dryer provided to Miss O (and with a depth dimension that, from what Ive 
seen, wouldnt fit in Miss Os property. So, it may be the suppliers used by DG dont offer a 
vented model (and/or one that would fit). 
However, given the policy condition above and what I will come onto about whether there is 
clearly a fault with the dryer, I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask DG to cover any 
increased electricity costs that Miss O has referred to.
As the evidence Ive seen doesnt clearly indicate a fault with the dryer, I dont think its 
reasonable - at his stage  to ask DG to replace the dryer. But given my conclusions, I do 
think its reasonable to ask DG to liaise with the supplier/manufacturer to arrange for an 
engineer to inspect the machine, to assess whether there is a fault with the dryer. 
In coming to this conclusion, Ive also had regard to what DG have said in their final 
response, that listening to the call in which Miss O discussed a replacement dryer, she said 
she didnt mind what kind of replacement dryer was provided as long as it didnt consume 
too much electricity. DG offered a model with a condenser (as opposed to vented) with a 
heat pump and A+ power consumption rating. So, I think DG should have been reasonably 
aware that electricity consumption was important to Miss O. And while they offered a model 
with a nominal better energy consumption rating, compared to her old dryer, the increased 
electricity consumption and cost would have been concerning for Miss O.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about the issue of compensation. DG say 
they dont think they should pay Miss O compensation for distress and inconvenience. But 
given my conclusions, I think Miss O has suffered distress and inconvenience from whats 
happened. In thinking about what would be reasonable, Ive also considered what Miss O 
has told us about her circumstances. Looking at the circumstances of the case as whole, I think £100 compensation would be fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Os complaint. I require 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Liaise with the supplier/manufacturer to arrange for an engineer to inspect the 
machine, to assess whether there is a fault with the dryer. 
Pay Miss O £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Miss O accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman