DRN-3551930
The complaint
Mr V complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In or around April 2018, Mr V was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr V decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In or around April 2020, Mr Vs made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. He 
said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not 
to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr V to enter into the 
contract with P. He has made the following points:
He was told the system would be self-funding; and
the monthly payments would be more than covered by the savings; and
there is a significant shortfall in the projected performance vs the actual performance; 
and
he would not have purchased the system if hed understood there would be a 
significant shortfall against his loan repayments.
Shawbrook didnt provide a final response to Mr Vs complaint but did give him the rights to 
refer his complaint to this service. They also subsequently offered to pay compensation of 
£200 to reflect the delay in investigating his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. During the course of their 
investigation, Mr V also made this service aware of further installation issues not included 
within his original complaint. Our investigator confirmed to Mr V that this service wouldnt be 
able to consider any complaint issues or points that hadnt already been raised and 
considered by P or Shawbrook.
Having considered all the information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that 
P had told Mr V his loan repayments would be covered by the financial benefits of the 
system. But she did agree the system wasnt performing as expected. Our investigator also 
found discrepancies within the assumptions used by P resulting in the financial benefits 
being overstated to Mr V. She also found that one of the extra features supplied by P wasnt 
providing the returns they suggested. 
Our investigator thought Shawbrook should calculate and pay to Mr V an amount to reflect 
her findings together with the compensation theyd already offered. Shawbrook havent 
responded to investigators view. So, Mr Vs complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr V paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr V could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr V and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr V says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr V and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with Mr Vs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr V, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied on balance the quote did 
form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went 
through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Vs version of 
events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement also clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr V was told that the cost of the system was £15,887.55. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £15,887.55 and the monthly payment was £188.22. The total 
amount of credit is £15,787.55 after payment of a deposit of £100. It goes on to show that 
the total amount payable would be £22,686.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Vs recollections, Im satisfied he was told 
there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set out in the 
table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £15,887.55, it would cost 
Mr V more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr V says he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-funded by the 
savings. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr Vs recollections of 
the meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr V could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr V could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £208.77, which results in an average monthly income of £17.40. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £188.22. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr V was 
told the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment alone.
Energy savings
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr V could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £383.02 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr V, the combined income and savings in year one are shown as 
£1,170.03. These are shown in a table entitled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120/180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr V entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £190.71. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the quoted monthly loan repayment of £190.71, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr V could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, wouldnt be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. This also supports my finding above that Mr V wasnt told that the FIT payment 
would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Vs version of events. 
However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr V that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so, Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson didnt make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr V was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr V could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr V the system would pay for itself by year 
14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, 
and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
System performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr V. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,280 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Vs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,745 kWh from initial installation to March 2021. This is less than estimated by P 
at the point of sale, so I agree Mr Vs system isnt performing as expected.
Mr V confirmed that P arranged and completed an inspection of the system in January 2022. 
He recalled the inspector told him the solar system itself and battery were working as 
designed. But the hot water system was completely dead, he commented that it probably 
wouldnt be used anyway because the system is unlikely to generate enough electricity to 
cover usage and battery charging but couldnt identify any faults.
Shawbrook also confirmed the inspection had not identified any system faults. So, they 
requested a full breakdown of all FIT payments calculated and received since the system 
was installed at Mr Vs home to consider the under-performance assessment further. This 
information was provided to Shawbrook. But theyve made no further comments or 
observations.
Assumptions
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and August 2018 to calculate 
the EPR and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
partly explains why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on information available from 
the ONS covering 2007 to August 2018. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr V 
couldve expected to receive from the system. However, our investigator did identify that the 
EPR and RPI figures were overstated by P. This means that Ps quote inflated the estimated 
savings, income and benefits generated by the proposed system. Our investigator and 
Shawbrook both agreed a refund needs to be made totalling £278.66 to reflect this. So, I 
shall include this within my final decision.
Independent report
Mr V arranged an Energy Performance Validation Scheme (EPVS) report to consider the 
estimates P included within their quote at the point of sale. The report was completed in October 2020 by an approved specialist in home energy certification. I consider the report to 
be credible in terms of its source, detail and completeness.
Generally, the report concludes the estimates made by P and included in their quote were 
reasonable. But it did highlight an issue with Ps estimates for the hot water controller they 
supplied. The report identified that Mr Vs self-consumption, including battery storage, will 
mean that there should be no excess generation to divert to the cistern. So, its unlikely that 
the savings estimated by the hot water controller could be achieved. This appears to support 
Mr Vs recollection of what he was told by Ps inspector in January 2022.
Our investigator asked Shawbrook to consider the report findings and provide their 
comments. But Shawbrook havent responded.
Putting things right
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied P didnt suggest to Mr V the system would be self-funding. But I am persuaded the 
system is underperforming against the estimates P included in their solar quote. And, as a 
result, Mr V isnt receiving the financial benefits he was told he would. Im also satisfied that 
the savings associated with the hot water controller are also not being achieved. My decision 
will also reflect the discrepancy found between the EPR/RPI rates P used in the quote.
As Ive already mentioned, under section 75, Shawbrook have equal liability for any 
misrepresentation by P here. So, my decision will reflect their responsibility for Mr Vs losses. 
Shawbrook and/or P may consider it beneficial to clean, adjust or make improvements to the 
system installed at Mr Vs home in order to achieve the quoted financial benefits This would 
be acceptable subject to any subsequent improvement in performance being proven.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint.
I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
reimburse Mr V for the discrepancy between the quoted EPR/RPI rates and the 
actual EPR/RPI rates for the same period; and
reimburse Mr V an amount equivalent to the benefits P told him hed receive from the 
hot water controller installed, over the full loan term; and
calculate and refund to Mr V the difference between the financial benefits quoted and 
those received and estimated to receive over the full term of the loan. 
Pay Mr V £200 compensation to reflect the delays in completing their investigation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman