DRN-3355099
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited gave him misleading 
information concerning a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was in an accident that wasnt his fault when another driver ran into the back of him. 
Mr B called Hastings to make a claim. Hastings said it was putting him through to another 
firm to deal with the claim. The other company concerned is an accident management 
company (AMC). The AMC arranged repairs and provided a replacement car while those 
were ongoing.
Some months later Mr B's solicitors told him the third party insurer hadnt paid all the claim 
and Mr B might be required to go to court to recoup the AMCs costs.
Mr B complained. He said Hastings hadn't told him he could ultimately be responsible for 
covering the cost of the claim and he thought he was claiming through his policy. Hastings 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think 
Hastings needed to do anything else. Mr B didnt agree so his complaint's been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
When Mr B rang Hastings he told it that the third party insurer had already contacted him to 
offer its services in dealing with the claim. That meant it was clear to Hastings that Mr B 
wasnt at fault for the accident, as if thered been doubt about that then the third party insurer 
is unlikely to have offered its services to Mr B directly. So, rather than putting the claim 
through Mr Bs own policy, Hastings referred him to the AMC to handle it. 
It might help if I explain that, where a drivers been involved in an accident which wasn't their 
fault, AMCs may offer to arrange repairs and provide temporary replacement cars. But 
AMCs are independent from insurers, they are entirely separate businesses. So when an 
AMC is involved the consumer isnt claiming from their own insurance policy and the AMC 
isnt acting as agents for the insurer. Instead the consumer enters into an agreement with 
the AMC that allows it to seek to recover its costs from the third partys insurer. The 
advantage for a consumer of using an AMC rather than claiming through their own policy is 
generally that: they won't have to pay their excess; the AMC will usually provide a temporary 
replacement car that is of a similar class to their own car; and their insurer will usually record 
the claim as non-fault/notification only from the outset. 
I've listened to the call when Hastings referred Mr B to the AMC. I've heard that Hastings 
referred to the AMC as another company and said that the AMC would deal with the claim 
directly, meaning that it was the AMC and not Hastings that would progress the matter. 
Mr B was happy with that and Hastings put him through to the AMC. So from Hastings 
perspective, it only did what Mr B wanted it to do. And its worth noting that Mr B would then 
have been required to accept the AMCs terms for dealing with the claim on his behalf before 
that went ahead. 
That said, I can see why Mr B might have been confused. Like most people he'd never had 
an accident before and didnt know what the process might be. And he said at the outset he 
wanted you guys  that is Hastings and the policy underwriter  to deal with the matter. 
And I can see why Mr B might have found some of Hastings language misleading; for 
example it referred to the AMC as being provided by Hastings. So I think Hastings could 
have been clearer that the AMC was an entirely independent company and, once Mr B 
accepted its services, Hastings and the policy underwriter would no longer have 
responsibility for the claim. But even if Hastings had been clearer about the AMCs role I 
dont think Mr B would have been in a different position now. Ill explain why.
Mr B was very clear during the call with Hastings that he was worried that the claim would 
affect his no claims discount (NCD). And Hastings confirmed that as it was putting him 
through to the AMC it would mark the claim as notification only. That means Hastings 
would make a record on a shared insurance database that Mr B had been involved in an 
incident but that his insurer hadn't paid out on a claim. Such a record wouldnt affect Mr Bs 
NCD. 
But, if Mr B had claimed through his own policy then thats unlikely to have happened. 
Instead its more likely that the claim would have affected his NCD from the outset. Thats 
because where a consumer claims on their own policy, it's standard practice in the insurance 
industry for that claim to be initially recorded as open. An open claim is any claim which 
has yet to be settled or where the policyholders insurer has yet to recover their outlay  
what it has paid out to settle the claim  from the third party insurer. And, generally, insurers 
treat open claims in the same way as they do fault claims, until the claim has been closed 
down and marked as non-fault. So, an open claim on Mr Bs insurance history would have 
affected him and his NCD in the same way as a fault claim until the claim had been closed 
down and his insurer had recovered its outlay. So, by accepting the services of the AMC, as 
his own insurer wouldnt have an outlay for the claim, Mr B was ensuring that his NCD was 
unaffected from the outset. 
Also if Mr B had claimed through his own policy then he would have been required to pay his 
policy excess upfront. But by accepting the AMCs services he didnt have to pay that.
Further, I know Mr B was unhappy with the temporary replacement car the AMC provided as 
he didn't think it was suitable for his needs. But had Mr B claimed through his own policy, he 
would have only been entitled to a group A car  those are small cars, often a hatchback 
with a one litre engine. Whereas, generally, AMCs will provide replacement cars which are 
of a similar class to the consumers own car. So, while he was unhappy with the car the 
AMC provided it was most likely more suitable for his needs than the courtesy car his policy 
entitled him to.
So, having considered the above, while I think Hastings could have been clearer about the 
role of the AMC, it seems likely that even if it had been Mr B would have chosen that option 
and been better off by using the AMCs services. And, as I've said above, after it had referred 
Mr B to the AMC he would have had to agree to its terms at that point. So, if he hadn't wished to do so he could have either claimed through his own policy or directly through the 
third party insurer, but he accepted the AMCs terms. Any complaint Mr B has about the 
AMC he should put directly to it. 
Ill add that Mr M has said he thinks its immoral that Hastings would refer him to an AMC. 
It's not my role to decide if an action is moral or not, only if it's fair and reasonable. As I've 
described above, there can be significant advantages to a consumer using the services of an 
AMC as opposed to claiming through their own insurer. And I think that was the situation 
here. So I dont think there was anything unfair or unreasonable in Hastings offering to refer 
Mr B to the AMC when it considered that was in his interest to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm to going not instruct Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman