DRN-3391336
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains Legal and General Insurance Society Limited (L&G) didnt 
tell Mrs C her life assurance would end in 2017, and refused to consider a retrospective 
claim. 
The estate of Mrs C is represented by Mrs Cs husband, Mr C. Mr C is himself represented 
here, but for simplicity my decision will refer only to Mr C. 
What happened
In 2008 Mrs C took out an 18 year decreasing term assurance policy. It would pay the sum 
assured if Mrs C was diagnosed with one of the defined critical illnesses, or passed away. 
The policy also included waiver of premium (WoP) benefit. Mrs C was the policyholder and 
life assured. The premiums were paid from Mrs C and Mr Cs joint bank account.
In January 2016 Mrs C attempted to take her own life. Mr C says this left her with significant 
mental and physical health issues so that she was no longer able to work, and in late 2016 
an application was made for her to receive government benefits.
In June 2017, the direct debit for the policy premiums was cancelled by the payer. 
The premiums went unpaid, so by September 2017 the policy had lapsed.  
Sadly, in January 2018 Mrs C took her own life. As the administrator of Mrs Cs estate, Mr C 
contacted L&G to make a claim under Mrs Cs policy. But L&G said the policy had lapsed in 
2017.
Mr C complained to L&G. He said Mrs Cs health in 2016 meant she would have been 
entitled to receive WoP benefit under the policy, which meant the policy wouldnt later have 
lapsed due to the premiums not being paid. He said Mrs C was mentally very unwell when 
she cancelled the direct debit, and had perhaps done so accidentally while rearranging her 
finances. Mr C said Mrs C was vulnerable and unable to manage her own affairs, so Mr C 
had looked after things for her including monitoring her post. He said Mrs C didnt receive 
anything from L&G to say the premiums hadnt been paid and the policy was at risk because 
if she had, hed have seen it and acted to make sure the policy remained in place. Mr C said 
the premiums were paid from a joint account and he wasnt told theyd stopped being paid. 
L&G said it initially asked Mr C to provide medical evidence to support the claim, but also 
told him it would ask its payment team for clarification. That clarification meant it then told Mr 
C it wouldnt consider a claim because the premiums hadnt been paid for over six months 
when Mrs C passed away, so the policy was no longer in force. L&G said it wrote to Mrs C 
about the missed premiums in July and September 2017, and it no longer held copies of the 
letters but this was in line with data regulations. L&G said joint account holders Mrs C and 
Mr C would have known about the failed direct debit in any case. L&G said it hadnt known 
Mrs C was unwell when the policy ended, but given Mrs C had been able to claim 
government benefits in 2016, it thought that she would have also had the ability to claim for 
WoP. However, L&G accepted Mr C had to chase it for responses over two months in late 
2020 and offered him £200 compensation for this inconvenience. 
Mr C brought this complaint to our Service, saying L&G had caused him a great deal of 
distress.
Our Investigator thought L&G hadnt sent Mrs C a letter in July 2017 about the unpaid 
premium and her policy being at risk. But that it had sent her a letter in September 2017 to 
say the policy had ended and she could contact L&G if she wanted to restart it. He thought 
L&Gs error in not sending the July 2017 letter hadnt made a difference, because Mr C 
couldnt have acted on that letter since Mrs C was the policyholder, and the evidence 
suggested shed chosen to cancel the direct debit. Our Investigator said the policy terms 
meant L&G wasnt obliged to consider any retrospective claims now. And he explained that 
as the estate of Mrs C was the eligible complainant here, our Service could only award 
compensation for unnecessary inconvenience, not distress. However, he noted L&G had 
offered Mr C £200 for his inconvenience and thought that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Mr C and our Investigator communicated further. Ive summarised what I see to be the 
additional relevant points Mr C made:
As administrator of Mrs Cs estate, Mr C told L&G the claim was based on Mrs Cs 
incapacity. But L&G rejected the claim because it wrongly assumed Mrs C herself had 
made a claim for government benefits and so could have claimed for WoP. But Mr C 
could get evidence that someone else completed Mrs Cs government benefits claim, 
and that she was incapacitated. 
L&Gs refusal to even consider the claim wasnt based on medical evidence. 
L&Gs overall approach was unfair, given another insurer had considered whether the 
failure to claim WoP was because of Mrs Cs incapacity, and then considered and paid a 
claim in the same circumstances. Mr C agreed our Investigator could ask the other 
insurer for the medical evidence it had relied on. 
L&Gs WoP policy terms were unfair as they meant it had the final say regarding WoP 
claims, so our Service should award redress.
At the time, Mrs C wasnt capable of claiming WoP and Mr C wasnt legally able to do 
this for her. When he later made a claim with L&G, it was in his capacity as 
administrator of Mrs Cs estate, and the time needed to go through the legal formalities 
of that meant this was outside the WoP timescales set out in the policy terms.  
Ultimately, our Investigator thought L&G hadnt been unfair or unclear. He said the policy 
didnt lapse because of any error by L&G, and the policy terms meant it didnt have to 
consider retrospective claims  though another insurer chose to consider and accept a 
claim, he wouldnt expect L&G to go beyond the policy terms. He noted the medical 
evidence provided by the other insurer showed that by March 2017 Mrs C had separated 
from Mr C and was living apart from him in her own property and engaging with medical 
professionals. So he thought it wasnt reasonable to conclude Mrs C wasnt well enough to 
manage her own affairs when the direct debit was cancelled, and Mrs C may simply have 
decided she no longer needed the policy given her change in circumstances.
Mr C was unhappy our Investigator hadnt shared Mrs Cs medical evidence and government 
benefits claim evidence with L&G. Mr C wanted our Service to focus on Mrs Cs capacity to 
claim WoP within the timescales set out in the policy terms. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about Mrs C passing away. I offer my 
condolences to Mr C and his family, and I realise this is a very difficult and upsetting time for 
them. While I dont wish to cause Mr C any further distress, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The evidence provided by L&G shows the direct debit instruction was cancelled by the 
premium payer on 15 June 2017. Mr C doesnt dispute Mrs C cancelled the direct debit, but 
suggests it wasnt intentional.
Mr C says L&G didnt tell Mrs C her premiums hadnt been paid and that her policy was at 
risk, because he was monitoring her post as part of managing her affairs at that time, and no 
such letters were received. However, I can only hold L&G responsible for sending letters 
correctly, not for whether those letters are received or not. So, Ive considered what L&G 
sent Mrs C. 
L&G says the time passed means it now only holds limited information about Mrs Cs policy. 
Its provided a template of the letter it says it would have sent Mrs C in July 2017 to say the 
direct debit hadnt been paid and should be paid within the next 14 days if Mrs C wanted her 
policy to continue. However, L&G cant provide a system record to show a letter was 
dispatched in July 2017, so I dont have enough evidence to reasonably conclude L&G sent 
this letter.
L&G has also provided a template of the letter it says it sent Mrs C in September 2017. The 
template says Mrs Cs premiums werent paid so her policy had been cancelled, but L&G 
could look at her options for restarting the policy if she contacted it in the next 14 days, and 
completed a declaration of health and paid the missed premiums. L&G has provided a 
system record to show it sent Mrs C a letter on 7 September 2017. Therefore, on the 
balance of probabilities, Im satisfied its more likely than not L&G sent that letter to Mrs C. 
I think L&G made an error by not sending the first letter in July 2017. However, I dont think 
that makes any difference here. I say that because its not disputed Mrs C cancelled the 
direct debit. And L&G sent her at least one letter saying she could still restart her policy if 
she wanted to, albeit only if she completed a declaration of health. As the policyholder, only 
Mrs C could have done this. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs C contacted L&G 
about restarting her policy. I know Mr C says Mrs C wasnt capable of managing her own 
affairs at this time. But the medical evidence Ive been provided with shows that from some 
months earlier, Mrs C was living separately to Mr C in her own property and engaging with 
medical professionals. So, I dont have enough evidence to fairly conclude Mrs C wasnt able 
to contact L&G about her policy if she wanted it to continue.
The policy terms say that If premiums are not paid within 30 days of each due date, the 
policy will lapse without a value and Legal & General's liability will cease. Its not disputed 
the premiums werent paid between the direct debit being cancelled in June 2017 and the 
policy lapsing in September 2017. Therefore Im satisfied the policy lapsed fairly and in line 
with the policy terms. 
Mr C says L&G should assess a retrospective WoP and life claim here, and that its unfair to 
say it wont without considering any medical evidence. 
The policy terms say: 
Provided that all premiums due have been paid and proof has been received by Legal & 
General of incapacity of the Life Assured, Legal & General will maintain the Policy as if all premiums due under the policy had been received on their due dates during such period of 
incapacity, until the end of the period of incapacity, the Life Assured's 60th birthday or the 
expiry date of the policy, whichever is the earlier. This benefit is subject to the following 
conditions: 
(c) Notice of a claim must be sent to Legal & General within four months of the 
commencement of incapacity, otherwise the commencement of incapacity will be deemed to 
be four months prior to receipt of notification. If there are extreme medical or other valid 
reasons why notice cannot be sent to Legal & General within four months of the 
commencement of incapacity then this requirement may be waived at the absolute discretion 
of Legal & General.
The policy had lapsed about six months before Mrs C passed away. I know Mr C thinks L&G 
should consider the medical evidence to establish whether Mrs C not claiming WoP in 2016 
was because she was incapacitated. But theres nothing in the policy terms that says L&G 
has to consider a retrospective claim. Instead they make clear that there are timescales 
within which a claim must be made and waiving these is at the absolute discretion of L&G. 
L&G has chosen not to waive them in this case. I appreciate Mr C feels very strongly that 
this is unfair, and points out another insurer considered and paid a retrospective WoP and 
life claim in the same circumstances. That may be so. But that doesnt mean L&G is obliged 
to do the same thing, or that it has acted unfairly here. Whats relevant here is the specific 
terms of the policy that Mrs C and L&G agreed, and Im satisfied L&G has acted fairly and in 
line with them. 
I know Mr C says L&G has caused him a very great deal of distress, but I dont think L&G 
has done anything wrong regarding the policy or retrospective claim. I should also be clear 
that Mr C is bringing this complaint as a representative of Mrs Cs estate, rather than as an 
eligible complainant in his own right. However, L&G says it didnt respond to Mr C, in his role 
representing Mrs Cs estate, as it should have over the course of two months. Its not the 
crux of the complaint Mr C raised with our Service, but L&G itself accepts this and has 
offered Mr C £200 compensation for the inconvenience this caused him. Mr C should contact 
L&G if he wants to accept this offer of £200 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman