DRN-1713093
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-
sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J bought a regular premium MPPI policy in February 1990. They purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage 
ended in November 2001.
Mr and Mrs J say they were given the impression PPI was a condition of being approved for 
a mortgage as they were first time buyers. They think Halifax mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs J's case.
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Js complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs J say they were given the impression they had to have the MPPI policy in 
order to be approved for a mortgage. 
 
I acknowledge everything Mr and Mrs J has said. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Mr and Mrs J and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
 
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold 
(around 30 years ago). Thats not surprising given the time thats passed, and its 
similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs J have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was optional.  
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs J during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs J, it had to 
ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr J's needs (as the sole 
policy holder). 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr J based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr J 
says he would have been able to claim statutory sick pay so i think he would have 
needed the benefit provided by the MPPI. The policy would have paid in addition to 
any provisions he and Mrs J would have had and for longer. I think, on balance, Mr J 
had a need for this cover based on his circumstances at the date of sale, for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason 
such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for 
him either.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr and Mrs J took out but even though it has provided information detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr 
and Mrs J in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly I dont think they would have done anything different and decided 
against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr J wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr and Mrs 
Js complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman