DRN-3611006
The complaint
Mr F complains Starling Bank Limited restricted his account when it shouldnt have.
Im aware our investigator told both parties they had until 5 August 2022 to make further 
submissions. As both parties have already made their positions clear and Im satisfied I have 
enough information to reach a fair outcome, I have decided not to delay matters.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has a current account with Starling. On 28 March 2022 Starling contacted Mr F. It said 
as a regulated bank it was required to monitor accounts and transactions. It proceeded to 
ask Mr F questions about some large transactions and his source of wealth/income, and for 
appropriate evidence. I find this was reasonable given Starlings responsibilities and I note 
the account terms and conditions allowed for it. 
Mr F responded the same day but didnt properly answer Starlings questions or provide any 
appropriate evidence. Starling responded, also on the same day, to ask him to provide the 
information it had asked for. On 4 April 2022 Starling said it was looking into Mr Fs account 
and would be in touch. The following day it asked Mr F for some information about his 
company and his personal income. On 12 April 2022 Starling sent an update which said the 
message could be ignored if Mr F had already responded. Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Starling to ask Mr F for the information it did given its responsibilities and Im satisfied 
Starling did enough to attempt to obtain said information.
On 19 April 2022 Starling, having not heard from Mr F, said his account was under review 
and had been restricted - something the account terms and conditions allowed. Starling 
asked Mr F to provide the information it had previously asked for. Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Starling, when it didnt receive the information it had asked for on several 
occasions over a couple of weeks, to restrict the account while it reviewed matters. The 
restriction was removed on 27 April 2022, so the review didnt take a significant amount of 
time. 
Overall, I find Starling acted fairly and reasonably. But in any case, Mr F has said he only 
had about £30 in the account for the duration of the restriction  meaning he wasnt without 
access to money he needed. And he has confirmed it didnt impact a property purchase he 
was undertaking. So this matter didnt cause Mr F material detriment.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman