DRN-2878085
The complaint
Mr K is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says he was mis-sold a unit-linked long term savings policy by Sanlam Financial 
Services UK Limited in November 1990.  
What happened
Mr K took out a Sanlam Savings Programme, which was a regular contribution unit linked 
investment with a life assurance element. It began on 21 November 1990 and was set up to 
run until 2032. Mr K agreed to contribute £50 per month, and continued to pay premiums 
until May 2007. On 6 March 2015, Mr K surrendered the policy for a value of £22,372.16.  
In May 2020, the CMC complained to Sanlam. It said that the policy was mis-sold because 
even though it might have been affordable at the time, there was no evidence that Mr K 
required a policy with such a long term. In fact, he was particularly young at the time and 
there was a strong likelihood that his circumstances would change down the line.
The CMC submitted that Sanlam shouldnt have offered an inflexible contract. As Mr K had 
recently taken out a ten-year monthly income plan (MIP) for savings purposes, he should 
have either been recommended to take a new MIP or cancel the existing one and take out a 
combined MIP.  That is because the MIP had a far better return over the comparative period.  
Sanlam rejected the complaint. It firstly said it had seen no evidence to suggest the policy 
was unaffordable. Secondly, it disagreed that the advice was unsuitable for Mr K merely 
because he was young and didnt have dependants.  
The CMC referred Mr Ks complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint and believed it should not succeed. He said he noted that Mr K had held the policy 
for some 25 years, and he could have contacted Sanlam at any time if he had been unhappy 
with the policy. 
Given that Mr K had many other policies with Sanlam and a financial career working with 
equities, our investigator felt Mr K would have had a reasonable degree of understanding as 
to how the policy worked. Finally, he said there was evidence that Mr K had discussed his 
future goals with Sanlam, and the recommendation was not out of step with those.  
The CMC disagreed. It said it felt the investigator had not properly considered its principal 
argument, that being how best advice would have been for the existing MIP to be cancelled 
and the additional £50 per month combined with the premium for the surrendered MIP in 
order to purchase a new combined MIP. Mr K would have been better off if he had done this.  
The adviser would have known the most beneficial option for Mr K but chose to disregard it. 
Sanlam didnt have any further comments to make.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed.  
Though the sale of this policy was a considerable time ago, Sanlam has been able to 
provide some fact find information obtained by the adviser that recommended the policy to 
Mr K. This recorded how Mr K was already earning a high income working in equities trading 
at age 22, while living at home with his parents. He had set out his wish to retire early at 45-
50, and at some point in the future to have a family.    
While I note the CMC has pointed out that Mr K was young, single and didnt have 
dependants at the time of the advice, I disagree that this automatically rendered the 
recommendation unsuitable. 
The life assurance inclusion was a qualifying requirement, to ensure any gains arising from 
the policy were exempt from income tax. And this was something Mr K was familiar with as 
the MIP he held operated in the same way. Further, Mr K was recorded as requiring a 
savings vehicle for future life planning, and I do not believe the inclusion of a small 
proportion of life cover causes the recommendation to be unsuitable for that purpose.  
Though the policy did have charges such as a fund management charge and a monthly 
maintenance charge,  these were set out clearly to Mr K in the product literature he was 
given at the time. Mr K also emailed Sanlam to ask about the charges again in 2007  and 
though he stopped any further contributions each month, he retained the policy for a further 
eight years. 
The product information issued to Mr K also highlighted how he could access his savings at 
any time, but that the programme was designed so that the full benefit of the investment 
would be realised after around 25 years. I believe Mr K was aware that the policy was 
designed to be kept for the longer term, and this was in line with his recorded objectives. It is 
also supported by the fact that Mr K surrendered the policy after 25 years.  
At the time, Mr K held several products with Sanlam including the MIP which began in April 
1990 with a monthly contribution of £100. It seems to me that Mr K had some understanding 
of how these policies operated and it likely explains why he was happy to take out a number 
of similar investments with Sanlam. 
I appreciate the CMC says the best advice at that time would have been to cancel the MIP 
and combine the two premiums into one, new MIP. Even if, with hindsight, Mr K wouldve 
been better combining the premiums into one, shorter term MIP, that doesnt mean that the 
savings programme was unsuitable for his needs and objectives  which included 
consideration for a longer term. 
I mustnt use hindsight in determining a reasonable outcome to a complaint; for that reason I 
need to determine if I consider the recommendation for the savings programme was a fair 
proposal based on the information before the adviser  and I consider it was.  
Ive seen no reason to dispute the contents of the information recorded about Mr Ks 
circumstances in 1990. I conclude it was most likely that Mr K was satisfied that the savings 
programme was the option he wished to pursue for his documented long term savings 
requirement  and this differed from the shorter ten-year term of the MIP he already held. I 
therefore do not consider the advice was unreasonable or that the policy was mis-sold.  
Finally, though it hasnt been contested by the CMC I do agree with Sanlam and our investigator that, when looking at Mr Ks financial circumstances, the proposed monthly 
contribution of £50 was likely affordable given his particular income, savings and living 
circumstances. I am satisfied on balance that the decision he took at the time to invest in this 
policy was within his means and with a term which coincided with his long-term retirement 
and lifestyle goals.
My final decision
I reject this complaint and do not make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman