DRN-2600641
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the proposed settlement by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) for her home insurance claims for water damage to her kitchen and bathroom.
 What happened
In December 2018 Mrs H had a flood in the ground-floor bathroom in her maisonette due to
a leaking pipe. She made a claim on her separate home emergency insurance, and repairs
were carried out to the pipes. It was recommended that she secure the freestanding bath
since this could cause leaks if it moved. Otherwise Ms H took no further action, and the area
was allowed to dry naturally.
In August 2019 there was a leak in the kitchen, again caused by burst pipes. Mrs H had the
leak repaired and made a claim to RSA. She also appointed a firm of assessors/contractors
(T) to deal with the claim for her. They assessed that there was considerable damage to
both the kitchen and the bathroom. RSA sent out a loss adjuster to assess and it was agreed
that two claims would need to be pursued. T drew up schedules of work and argued with
RSA about the assessed cost for doing the work. In November 2019 on a site visit to check
the bathroom RSAs contractor determined that the damage might not be just due to the
leaking pipes. It thought there was likely pre-existing damp issues. Tests were then carried
out which indicated that the damp was caused by rainwater, possibly coming in through a
low level airbrick. It was also pointed out that the bathroom wasnt adequately ventilated, and
there may not be an adequate damp proof course (DPC).
RSAs initial scope of works provided for strip out of the plaster on the walls up to 1.5m,
drying and reinstating. As a result of its tests it didnt believe it was liable for the walls and
drying, as it said that if the damage was due to just the water pipes it would all be at a low
level. It proposed to pay for the replacement floor tiles and any works to remove/refit the
sanitary items and skirting boards. However it wouldnt pay for the strip out, replastering of
the walls and drying. It reviewed Mrs Hs complaint and agreed that there had been delays
on its part. In particular it said it should have identified the bathroom claim earlier and kept
her up to date. It paid her compensation of £400.
Mrs H pointed out that the airbrick wasnt connected to the bathroom wall, that there was a
mechanical fan in the bathroom and that there was a DPC present. She further pointed out
that she had had a damp survey carried out in 2017 when she bought the property, which
recommended certain damp works which were then carried out. No problems were found
with the bathroom.
On review of Mrs Hs complaint by this service our investigator thought that it was likely that
the problem in the bathroom was caused by the leaking pipes, so RSA should carry out the
work to the bathroom and kitchen. He said RSA should pay a further £100 compensation.
RSA disagreed. It said that it would be prepared to carry out high level testing on the walls to
see if the damp problem was higher up. Mrs H didnt want any further testing. She pointed
out that since her complaint was made shed had the extension to her home re-rendered and
a new bathroom window put in. She did ask however that RSA now carry out the work to the
kitchen.
RSA declined to proceed with the kitchen repairs until Mrs H had had the bathroom sorted
out. It proposed to pay her a cash settlement, which Mrs H doesnt want.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that RSAs position in respect of the bathroom and 
its offer to do further testing in respect of the bathroom was reasonable. As far as the kitchen 
was concerned I said it should proceed to carry out those repairs, rather than offer a cash 
settlement.
Mrs H advised that shed like RSA to start the work on the kitchen as soon as possible and 
was happy for it to undertake the further testing in the bathroom to put an end to the ongoing 
debate.
RSA said it had always been willing to carry out the repairs to the kitchen and explained that 
it changed its view as it hadnt been provided with any evidence of the repairs, including the 
installation of a window, Mrs H claimed to have undertaken to the bathroom. It had offered to 
carry out higher level testing in the bathroom but Mrs H had declined to allow this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
In respect of the bathroom, RSAs evidence is firstly from its contractors observations. They
said there was moss and mould growth and evidence of blown tiles in the shower area. The
salt test of the water indicated no nitrates or chlorides present which can signify rainwater.
Mrs H referred to her damp survey carried out in 2017. But although this didnt indicate damp
problems with the bathroom, I have to bear in mind that that was sometime before RSAs
tests carried out in late 2019. T said the damage was due solely to the water leak from the
pipes but this wasnt backed up by any testing. Ive noted that the home emergency report
just identified the bath should be secured. However again this wasnt backed up by testing
and wasnt an opinion as to what caused the damage to the walls, which was noted and
commented on later.
I appreciate that since the test was carried out, Mrs H has had a window fitted and that there
does appear to be a DPC. But my view on this has to be informed by the expert evidence
which indicates rainwater to be present. If I were to ignore this and RSA were to carry out
work, which included complete stripping out and replastering of the damp walls and there
was an underlying problem, it might affect the new plaster. I can understand RSAs
reluctance to proceed without ensuring that any underlying issues are dealt with first, and
those issues would likely not be covered by insurance. I can also understand that Mrs H
didnt want any further testing carried out but Im aware that RSA did offer to do it. I cant
require it to do such testing but if the home is to be disrupted for the kitchen repairs it seems
to me that it would be wise to take up RSAs offer. Otherwise RSA will offer a cash
settlement for the items its prepared to pay for. I cant require it to do those repairs, in the
bathroom, while the other issues remain to be resolved.
If RSA carries out further testing and finds no evidence of rainwater penetration then there
would be no bar to it doing the repairs for the bathroom that it had originally scoped for.
As regards the kitchen, I cant see any reason why RSA cant do the repairs now. The only
reason it didnt proceed was because of Mrs Hs understandable desire to have all repairs
carried out at the same time. It had agreed to do all the necessary repairs to the kitchen, and
should proceed with those.I note that RSA did delay in dealing with this matter in the early stages. I understand that it
felt T was obstructive. However as it noted it should have identified the problem with the
bathroom much sooner  it had been aware of this from its original site visit back in
August 2019. It has paid compensation of £400 which I think is fair and reasonable. And
because I think its position concerning the bathroom is reasonable, I dont propose to award
any further compensation.
The position is now that RSA has agreed to do carry out the repairs to the kitchen which it 
had proposed to do before Mrs H raised her complaint with us. But she had refused as she 
wanted both kitchen and bathroom done together., although she later said she would agree 
to the kitchen repairs being done first. RSA had also in response to our investigators view 
offered to carry out high level testing in the bathroom. Mrs H had refused this but she now is 
now prepared to agree to this as well.
Im pleased to note the change in the position of the parties. But I dont accept that 
previously it was reasonable for RSA to refuse to carry out the kitchen repairs, and offer a 
cash settlement instead. It had always regarded the kitchen and bathroom as separate, 
before it offered to do further testing, and only changed its view after Mrs H refused that 
further testing.
So I will now require RSA to carry out the repairs to the kitchen. As Ive said its not obliged 
to carry out further testing in the bathroom, and I cant direct it to do so, but given that it has 
offered to do so and Mrs H will accept that, Ive taken that into account in making this final 
decision. RSA will be able to see if Mrs Hs repairs including the installation of the window 
have been carried out. 
As for whether RSA will carry out further repairs to the bathroom, or just cash settle the part 
it has agreed to, this remains to be considered by it after it does the testing. I cant prejudge 
that issue, nor can I prejudge what will happen if the repairs to the bathroom arent carried 
out and there are any further leaks. 
My provisional findings, as set above are now final and form part of this final decision.
   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to arrange to 
carry out the agreed repairs to Mrs Hs kitchen.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman