DRN-2416730
The complaint
Ms A complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has unfairly refused a life 
assurance claim she made on behalf of her late partner under their joint protection policy. 
Instead, it voided their cover on the grounds of misrepresentation and returned the policy 
premiums to Ms A.  
To resolve the complaint, Ms A wants L&G to honour the claim payment.
What happened
On 10 November 2020, I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In that decision, I 
proposed to uphold the complaint, subject to any further evidence or comments I may 
receive.  
On 7 December 2020, I issued a second provisional decision. A copy of the findings set out 
in that second provisional decision is provided in italics below.
Having looked at matters again following the additional information from L&G, I am no longer 
able to conclude that this complaint ought to be upheld. Whilst I remain of the view that Mr 
Ls misrepresentation was careless (and L&G now concedes it agrees to that 
categorisation), the additional information provided now demonstrates that L&G could not 
have offered Mr L insurance. 
I know this will be particularly upsetting for Ms A, as it had previously appeared as though a 
proportionate settlement could be paid to her. But, I have to be fair to both parties in a 
complaint  and the complete set of information now supplied by L&G shows that it could not 
have insured Mr L at the time, without requiring a new application. Ill explain why that is 
below.
L&G now agrees Mr Ls actions were not reckless or deliberate. It accepts that, as per my 
previous findings, Mr Ls actions were better described as careless. Ms A hasnt made any 
further comments about that. I remain of the view that Mr L should have answered the 
question about his blood pressure positively. 
As set out in my provisional decision, in the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer 
should consider a proportionate remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the 
underwriting decision would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If 
insurance could have been offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer 
can amend the contract to reflect this.
I also explained how wording from the ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless 
misrepresentation when deciding a proportionate remedy, says:
4.2.5 The underwriting decision would have been deferred  In cases where the 
underwriting decision would have been deferred, or where the decision to defer the 
cover would have been made. As far as possible, insurers should try to determine 
what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been (that is, at the end of the 
deferred period or when the investigation was complete) and apply the appropriate 
remedy as above. If it is not possible to work out whether the insurer would have 
offered any cover, or if the deferral decision would have required the customer 
to re-apply at a future date [L&Gs emphasis], then this should be treated as a 
decline in 4.2.4 above. 
In my previous findings, I had not seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate that L&G could 
not have considered underwriting Mr L during a postponement period. Specifically, on the 
evidence to that date it appeared Mr L could have returned to L&G within the 36-month 
maximum postponement period and received rated insurance, with a +75 rating.
This was complicated by the information supplied by L&G in respect of the three blood 
pressure readings Mr L had in 2015, almost two years after the application. In the 
communications with our investigator it had said had Mr L re-applied after that time, it would 
have used all three of these measurements to work out the average reading. The 
underwriting decision could then be based on that average. The readings were 16 April 2015 
- 182/90, 8 May 2015 - 182/112, and 17 June 2015 - 154/101. L&Gs Cardiovascular Risk 
Calculator showed a potential rating of +75%, had Mr L re-applied after June 2015.  
L&G now retracts that, in part. It firstly says the calculation was only a potential one, but in 
reality it could never have offered cover in 2015. It now secondly says the April and May 
2015 readings were too high to have offered insurance  these again would have led to a 
postponement.  
I dont accept that second submission, because there is no justification as to why the June 
2015 reading would be discounted. However, I do now accept that L&G would not be in a 
position to be using the 2015 readings at all. That is because the complete evidence now 
shows it could not have allowed the postponement of the original application to be longer 
than 12 months. At that time, Mr L would have had to reapply  and the wording of the ABI 
Code allows L&G to treat a new application for insurance as a decline when assessing 
misrepresentation.  
L&G has now supplied the subset questions Mr L would have been asked, had he disclosed 
that he had seen a doctor in relation to his blood pressure. Those questions provide granular 
detail in respect of variables relating to blood pressure, such as diagnoses of other 
conditions, medication and attendance with a GP or nurse. However, the questions then 
specifically require the applicant to state his or her last known blood pressure reading. Mr Ls 
was 163/119 in September 2009. Whilst I recognise that Ms A has explained that this and 
the other proximate readings of July and August 2009 were particularly high due to labile 
hypertension, Mr L would have had two options; either a) disclose the last reading or b) say 
he did not know it  in which case L&G would have asked his GP for it.  
In either circumstance, the most recent reading would have been used to trigger a 
postponement. I noted this in my provisional findings, but it seemed at that time that the 
wording of L&Gs guidance entitled Postpone and Decline Decisions allowed for 
postponements up to 36 months, and this coupled with the retrospective underwriting 
comments did not specify a period of time. I have included the wording of this in my previous 
provisional findings, set out above. Again, in any final decision I will redact sensitive 
underwriting information, as this is proprietary to L&G and should not be published.  
  
L&G has always maintained that the 36 month period cannot take precedence over its other 
internal documentation on Valid to Dates which states that an underwriting offer expires 
within 12 months. I did not provisionally agree with that, as its clear that the two sets of 
guidance conflict with one another. To that end, in my first set of findings I explained how 
L&G has told us that Mr L would have needed to re-apply at the end of the postponement period. I have seen no underwriting guidance or manual pages to support that assertion. 
What it actually requires is an acceptable blood pressure reading within the last 12 months, 
in the context of the confirmed evidence that a postponement can be as long as 36 months.
However, the specific underwriting tables (of 2012, the most relevant at the time Mr L 
applied for cover) showing tolerance of systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements 
by age of the applicant gives an outcome of [redacted] for a reading of 163/119; this is a 12-
month postponement, which would have triggered a letter to Mr L requiring that he seek an 
up to date blood pressure reading. And, L&G has now supplied an internal document from 
2009 entitled Postponement Update which clarifies:
[redacted internal documentation setting out that a new application must be submitted].
There is unfortunately no medical evidence of blood pressure readings within 12 months of 
Mr Ls application. And I cannot now conclude that it is reasonable to look forward as far as 
36 months. As I discussed in my provisional decision, the next readings are in 2015. But I 
cannot find that it is reasonable to look to these readings where L&Gs complete evidence 
now shows it would require a new application after 12 months, because the ABI Code allows 
an insurer to treat careless misrepresentation as a decline if the deferred period (of 12 
months in this case) results in the requirement for a new application. Without acceptable 
blood pressure readings in the interim, that applies here. 
I realise that Mr L didnt return to the GP for any hypertension matter until 2015 and he went 
many years without any review of his blood pressure. But L&G isnt at fault for that. It has 
been required to retrospectively review Mr Ls medical history at the claim stage. That flows 
from the question being answered wrongly in 2013. The evidence now shows that if Mr L 
had rightly told L&G of his medical history, he would have been asked additional questions 
about that history. Whether he could recall the reading or not, either way this would have 
necessitated a new blood pressure reading. It simply isnt possible to say what that new 
reading would have been before the end of the 12-month period; and because of the 
additional information Ive now seen relating to postponement, it isnt reasonable to use the 
2015 measurements to determine whether L&G could have gone on to offer Mr L rated 
insurance as the deferred period ended before then.  
Despite my sympathy for Ms A, unless I see any further evidence to materially alter these 
additional findings Im likely to reject this complaint, save for the direction to pay her £250 for 
the upset she has been caused.   
Though I will remove it from any published decision, I ask that L&G consents to a copy of the 
relevant underwriting evidence (the full submission with attachments sent to me in response 
to the provisional decision) being shared with Ms A. This is so that she can reflect on the 
specific underwriting parameters relating to blood pressure that were in place at the time she 
and Mr A applied for their policies; and also to understand how it applies in the 
circumstances of the relevant law and ABI guidance on misrepresentation in consumer 
insurance contracts.
Ms A provided a detailed written response to my second provisional decision. I will not set it 
out in full here, though I have read and acknowledge the complete contents. In summary, Ms 
A said:
it is very upsetting that L&G can provide information late in the process;
Mr L could not have told L&G about his blood pressure readings in 2013, because 
the reading was taken as a matter of course;
Mr L was flustered the day he attended his rheumatology appointment;he suffered from white coat hypertension, and this was recognised in my first 
provisional decision;
Ms A now disputes the finding of careless misrepresentation when Mr L didnt know 
he had high blood pressure and the measure taken was more than four years before 
they applied for their insurance;
she remains of the view that even if Mr L could have recalled his high reading and/or 
issues with white coat hypertension that she feels L&G would have been in a position 
to insure him at a higher cost rather than refuse insurance altogether;
at the time of the claim, L&G bombarded Ms A with questions about Mr Ls history  
bullying her into trying to recall back many years at a time she was suffering.  
L&G didnt offer any further reply. The complaint has now been passed back to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise and appreciate how upsetting it is for Ms A that the findings in this complaint no 
longer support a proportionate claim payment. This is because the complete evidence now 
shows that the late Mr L couldnt have been offered any insurance by L&G, if it had known 
Mr Ls correct medical circumstances in 2013 when they sought their policies. 
But, as Ive noted previously I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint. And though this 
change in the outcome of the complaint is upsetting for Ms A, I cannot issue a decision 
enforcing a claim payment for life assurance by an insurer where the evidence now shows 
that a policyholder could not have obtained that cover in the first place.  
I note that Ms A now disagrees with my findings in the provisional decision of 10 November 
2020. However, her additional comments do not alter my view that a misrepresentation 
occurred. For completeness, my first findings said that:
Mr L was asked three questions where L&G says he should have answered differently:
Apart from anything you have already told us about, during the last 5 years have you 
seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for any other condition or symptom 
which has needed an angiogram, CT scan, ECG, or MRI?
Apart from anything you have already told us about, during the last 5 years have you 
seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for raised blood pressure, raised 
cholesterol, or condition affecting blood or blood vessels, for example anaemia, 
excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein thrombosis?
Apart from anything you have already told us about, during the last 5 years have you 
seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for anxiety, depression, any form of 
nervous or mental disorder needing treatment or counselling, chronic fatigue or 
persistent tiredness?
Like our investigator I do not believe there was a material misrepresentation on the first 
question. There simply is not sufficient evidence to suggest Mr L reasonably knew he 
had anything to disclose to that question, given no ECG took place. It was suggested on 
his GP records, as a response to his blood pressure  but I have seen no clear evidence 
that Mr L was aware of it.  And, in any event I agree with both L&G and our investigator that this would reasonably 
have arisen had Mr L answered yes to the next question relating to blood pressure. I 
know that the incidences where Mr L had raised blood pressure were over four years 
previously. But, I do believe he ought reasonably to have been able to recall it.  
I say that because Mr L was particularly young at the time to have readings of that 
nature. He was still in his 30s at the time of applying for the cover in 2013. And the first 
two readings of July 2009 were very high at 187/123 and 185/116 respectively. I 
recognise that Ms A has explained these were labile hypertension (white coat syndrome) 
and L&Gs underwriting recognises that can skew the results. Nonetheless, Mr L had 
spoken to both a consultant (albeit a rheumatology one for the unrelated joint issues) 
and been recalled to his GP about blood pressure and I remain of the view that he 
should have told L&G that was the case, noting that his blood pressure remained 
elevated the following week (168/94) and later in August and September (at 165/100 and 
163/119) when the GP checked it.  
So, whilst I appreciate Ms A says Mr L couldnt have known or wouldnt reasonably have 
been able to recall the issues with high blood pressure readings, I disagree. It is correct that 
Mr L saw the consultant for a different matter, but his readings (be that because of labile 
hypertension or not) were sufficiently concerning that he was referred to his GP where his 
blood pressure was checked by the GP in August and September 2009. As he had seen a 
doctor about blood pressure, he should have told L&G about that. And, if this answer 
required Mr A to reflect further about his medical history, Mr L and Ms A were sent a copy of 
their policy answers where they could have thought about this in their own time and updated 
L&G that Mr L had seen a doctor for high blood pressure. 
It is for this reason that I gave the following findings in my first provisional decision about the 
categorisation of the misrepresentation, and these remain unchanged:
Ms A, on Mr Ls behalf, has explained how no further action followed the GP 
assessment. He wasnt prescribed medication and no further readings were done 
before the policy application in 2013. Given the lack of ongoing concern, absence of 
any treatment and the passage of time, I do not accept Mr L behaved deliberately or 
recklessly. I have seen no clear evidence of that. 
Nonetheless, I consider Mr L needed to show more care when answering and 
checking the question. Mr L and Ms A were sent a copy of their policy application to 
check. Mr L signed and returned this on 3 April 2013. This document set out if your 
answers or any other statements made about your application are not correct, 
incomplete, or are out of date we can refuse any claim and cancel your policy or 
policies. Mr L didnt amend any of the answers he had given despite this clear 
warning.  
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to 
serious negligence, and I think Mr Ls actions sit in that range of responses.
As Ive set out previously, wording from the ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless 
misrepresentation when deciding a proportionate remedy sets out how if underwriting sets 
out that an applicant would have to reapply at a future date then the retrospective 
underwriting decision can be treated as a decline. L&G has now provided more information 
about the follow up questions Mr L would have been asked, and whether he would have 
been able to recall what the blood pressure reading was or not (the latter being more likely 
based on Ms As explanation), L&G would still have had to obtain further information and a 
fresh blood pressure reading. The GP records of Mr Ls readings of 2009 would not have been acceptable to offer 
insurance and would have resulted in the 12-month postponement. It isnt possible to say 
what a fresh 2013 reading would have been before the end of the 12-month period; and 
because of the additional information relating to postponement coupled with the ABI 
wording, it isnt reasonable to use the 2015 measurements to determine whether L&G could 
have gone on to offer Mr L rated insurance as the deferred period ended before then. Since 
it cannot be determined that Mr L could have been offered any insurance at the time of the 
application, L&G is reasonably entitled under the relevant law and guidance to void Mr Ls 
cover and refuse Ms As claim.   
Putting things right
As noted in my second provisional decision, I remain of the view that compensation for upset 
caused to Ms A during the claim process ought to be paid by L&G. Though L&G is entitled to 
assess if there has been any misrepresentation and reach its findings on categorisation (so I 
do not make any award for applying law, regulations or guidance), the claim handling when 
undertaking its assessment caused Ms A particular additional upset and distress at what 
was a very difficult time for her. She was answering on the late Mr Ls behalf during a call 
with the claims assessor that she found upsetting and unduly pressured. I therefore agree 
with our investigator that an award of £250 is appropriate compensation for that upset as Ms 
A.  
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint as regards the refusal of Ms As life assurance claim for her 
late partner, Mr L. 
I do, however, direct Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay Ms A £250 for the upset she 
was caused during the claim assessment.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman