DRN-3211811
The complaint
Mr G complains as administrator of the estate of his late husband, Mr W, about how        
Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against a travel insurance policy. Mr W1 is 
assisting Mr G in bringing the complaint. Reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr W had travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account.      
He planned a trip with departure and return dates of 13 March 2020 and 20 March 2020 
respectively. 
Mr W became unwell with a high temperature and cough. On 19 March 2020, he sought 
emergency care. On 20 March 2020, Mr W was admitted to hospital. Unfortunately,      
Mr W died on 8 April 2020.  
Aviva settled the claim in relation to funeral, certain travel costs and medical 
inconvenience. It said that it could have been clearer about the parts of the claim not 
covered by the policy and paid compensation of £100 in relation to that. Mr G disputed 
Avivas calculation in relation to medical inconvenience and I understand that was 
resolved. Aviva declined the claim for death benefit. It said that as Mr Ws death was 
caused by an illness, not an accident, what happened here wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr G says that Aviva acted unfairly in declining the claim for death benefit. He refers to 
part of the policy which says that it isnt a private medical insurance policy and will only 
cover sudden and unexpected illness or accidents. Mr G says that Mr Ws illness and 
death was accidental, sudden, and unexpected. He says that Mr W was previously 
perfectly healthy and what happened to him was an accident. He wants Aviva to pay the 
death benefit of £50,000.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She didnt think that Aviva had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim in part. The investigator didnt think that  what happened 
here was covered by the death benefit provisions of the policy. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the policy wording isnt clear and 
can be interpreted to mean that death caused by Covid-19 is accidental and therefore 
covered under the policy. Mr G asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to learn of the circumstances which led to this claim. My condolences to both 
Mr G and Mr W1. Im conscious that Ive used a short narrative to summarise traumatic 
events, but Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Accidental death or permanent disability
We will cover you if you suffer a serious accidental bodily injury during your trip which 
requires immediate and urgent medical attention and leads solely, directly and independently 
of any other cause to:
(a) your death; []
For each insured person we will pay up to 50,000 other than the death benefit for insured 
persons under 16 years of age where the maximum we will pay is 1,000.
[]
What is not covered
[]
(b) Any claim resulting from
sickness, disease, nervous shock or naturally occurring condition or degenerative 
process;
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding this 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
The medical report Ive seen says that the main cause of Mr Ws death was   
Covid-19. The World Health Organisation (WHO) describes Covid-19 as an 
infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Mr Ws death was caused by a disease, not a serious accidental 
bodily injury. So, what happened here isnt covered under the Accidental death 
or permanent disability provisions in the policy. 
Even if I came to a different conclusion about that, theres an exclusion in the policy 
in relation to any claim under the Accidental death or permanent disability 
provisions resulting from disease. The claim here results from a disease, so its 
excluded. I think the exclusion is clear and that Aviva is entitled to rely on it. 
Mr G refers to the part of the policy which says that its not a general health or 
private medical insurance policy and will only cover sudden and unexpected illness 
or accidents. Thats contained in an explanation of whats covered and excluded in relation to medical conditions. It doesnt extend what the policy offers in the case of 
accidental death. The claim for accidental death is covered by  specific terms in the 
policy, which dont cover death caused by disease.   
I understand Mr Gs argument that Mr Ws death was sudden and unexpected but 
Im afraid that doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats because Mr Ws death was 
caused by a disease, not an injury, so its not covered by the Accidental death or 
permanent disability provisions. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman