DRN-2475321
The complaint
Mr K complains that Loans2Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. In summary Loans2Go lent Mr K one loan in November 2019, the loan was for £1,000 
and Mr K needed to make 18 monthly repayments of £228.56. Mr K has settled the loan.
When this complaint was looked at by our adjudicator, she thought the Loans2Go shouldnt 
have lent Mr K this loan.
Loans2Go disagreed and said its checks went far enough and those checks suggested that 
Mr K could afford the loan.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans2Go is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mr K would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Before agreeing to lend, Loans2Go has provided evidence to show that it searched Mr Ks 
credit file, asked him about his income and expenditure as well. I can see that Mr K declared 
his income as £1,825 and he declared his monthly expenditure as £588. Loans2Go said it 
lent on the basis that Mr Ks monthly income was around £1,753 and his monthly expenses 
were around £1,342, Loans2Go also said it added 10% buffer and on this basis, it says the 
loan was affordable for Mr K. 
From the correspondence Ive seen, I dont think Loans2Go asked Mr K for his bank 
statements before it agreed to lend, it appears it requested his bank statements after he 
raised his complaint in early 2020. Loans2Go also hasnt told this service how it arrived at 
the income and expenses figures it based its lending decision on.
Given the term of the loan and some of the information revealed by the searches; Mr K was 
over the limit on both his credit cards, he was also over the limit on his mail order account, I 
can also see that he was using loans from other providers and the credit report shows that 
he had two active loans with other providers at the time, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Loans2Go to have taken its checks further by verifying some of the 
information, I think it needed a better understanding of Mr Ks expenses . I think that the 
results from its checks suggested that Mr K may have had wider financial problems.
Ive used Mr Ks bank statements to understand his financial position at the time Loans2Go 
decided to lend to him and I can see that in the month before this loan was granted Mr Ks 
income was around £1,823.13, the bank statements also show that Mr K had a significant 
number of transactions which appear to be gambling transactions of around £1,197 in one 
month. Mr K was also borrowing from several other lenders, I can see that he was either 
borrowing from or repaying at least seven other lenders.
Had Loans2Go carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, it is likely to have 
seen that Mr K was reliant on credit and most likely gambling significant sums of his income. 
In the circumstances, it shouldnt have lent to Mr K.
Putting things right
To put things right, Loans2Go should;
Refund all interest fees and charges Mr K paid as a result of this loan.
Add 8%* simple interest on the payments from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman