DRN-4419163
The complaint
Mr L complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card (Argos)
didnt have an item ready for collection and stored his card details.
What happened
Mr L ordered an item for collection and paid with his Argos card. Mr L was told the item was
ready for collection and he made a long trip to pick it up.
When Mr L arrived, the item wasnt ready for collection. Unhappy with this, Mr L complained.
Because Mr Ls complaint involved the delivery of an item a different business than the
regulated part of Argos responded. Mr L wasnt happy with the response and service he
received and also complained about the storage of his bank card on the Argos app.
Argos responded to Mr Ls complaint and said it had removed Mr Ls card details. Argos said
it stored the card details because Mr L hadnt unticked a box to stop the card details being
automatically stored.
But Argos said it couldnt look into the complaint about the non-delivery of the item as this
was the responsibility of another business.
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. An investigator
looked into things and didnt think they could consider Mr Ls complaint.
The investigator thought all of Mr Ls complaint was the responsibility of the other business,
not Argos. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
My Provisional decision
Mr Ls first complaint, about the non-delivery of the item he ordered, isnt something I think I
can consider.
I can consider complaints against business which fall under our compulsory or voluntary
jurisdiction. Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card falls under our
compulsory jurisdiction.
But I dont think this regulated business is responsible for the delivery of the item, even
though it was ordered through Mr Ls Argos card.
I realise this can be confusing, Mr L ordered an item through Argos, as the retail business,
and it wasnt delivered, Mr L thinks he should be able to complain about this.
But Argos, as the retail business, has several different individual businesses involved in
ordering and delivering items. The regulated part of Argos is responsible for the card Mr Ls
been given, and any administration around this card.
But I dont think this regulated part of the business is responsible for the delivery of items.
Instead, I think the part of Argos concerned with physical stores, which isnt regulated, is
responsible for this.
I dont think I can consider any part of Mr Ls complaint about the non-delivery of the item he
ordered. This includes the inconvenience Mr L was caused by making a long, wasted
journey and the subsequent poor service he feels he received when he complained.
But I think Mr Ls second complaint, about the storage of his card details, is something Argos
is responsible for. In Argos final response it says its removed the card details, and Mr L has
confirmed this happened.
Ive looked at what Argos says about storing the debit card details, and its explanation
seems reasonable. When Mr Ls paid using his debit card it appears hes not unticked a box,
so the storage of his debit card happened automatically.
I dont think Argos made a mistake in storing Mr Ls card details. But Mr L is allowed to ask
for these details to be removed. Mr L asked, and Argos has removed the card details.
In the circumstances, I dont think theres more Argos needs to do to resolve Mr Ls
complaint around the storage of his card details.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L responded to my provisional decision and said he felt the issue around his card being 
stored was resolved. But Mr L felt Id not understood his complaint properly, and explained 
he was unhappy with the online ordering process.
Mr L also explained why it was very distressing for him to travel to a branch to collect an item 
which wasnt there, despite being told it was. Mr L felt he hasnt been properly compensated 
for this.
Mr L also said Id ignored his problems with the service he received and the behaviour of the 
complaints team. Mr L felt Id focussed on the card problems and not the core part of his 
complaint, the lack of item in branch and the handling of his subsequent complaint.
Argos didnt respond to my provisional decision and didnt necessarily need to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think itll be helpful to separate out the two businesses Mr L is complaining about, Argos as 
a regulated financial business and the physical, bricks and mortar, retail store.
When I refer to Argos in the following part of my decision, I only mean the provider of Mr Ls 
card, not the retail store.
Argos is, I think, only responsible for one part of Mr Ls complaint, whether it stored his card 
details unfairly. As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Argos treated Mr L 
unfairly here. Following Mr Ls responses, I still dont think Argos has treated him unfairly. And, in any 
event, Mr Ls said he feels this part of his complaint was already resolved.
But I cant decide if the retail store has treated Mr L unfairly. The retail store isnt a regulated 
financial business, so I dont think I have the power to investigate a complaint against it.
It may be another ombudsman scheme could look into a complaint against the retail store. 
And Mr L could explore legal action against the retail store, although Id recommend he looks 
into some free legal advice before this.
I think Ive understood Mr Ls complaint, hes very unhappy with the retail store. But since I 
dont think I can investigate a complaint against the retail store I cant comment on the 
actions of the retail store or whether it treated him fairly.
Im not saying the retail store treated Mr L fairly, or unfairly, I dont think I can look further 
into Mr Ls complaint against the retail store at all so cant comment either way.
And I dont think I can look into Mr Ls complaint about the service he received when logging 
his complaint. Mr Ls initial contact was with the retail stores complaint department. I think 
the responses, or lack of response, Mr L received was from the retail store.
I think the core parts of Mr Ls complaint, the lack of his item to collect, a resultant wasted 
journey, the lack of adequate compensation for the wasted journey and poor complaint 
handling, are all the responsibility of the retail store.
As explained in my provisional decision, I dont think I have the power to investigate this 
further or decide anything relating to the actions of the retail store.
Despite what Mr Ls said in response to my provisional decision, I still dont think I have the 
power.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, I can see how strongly he feels about the 
actions of the retail store. Mr Ls sent in lots of evidence to support his complaint against the 
retail store, but this doesnt give me the power to look further into things.
Since I cant look into the actions of the retail store, I cant comment on its actions, 
compensation or subsequent complaint handling.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont have the power to investigate, or decide, Mr Ls complaint against 
the retail store.
And I think Argos has done enough to resolve Mr Ls complaint about his card details being 
stored, so I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman