DRN-3610911
The complaint
Miss X complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund her the money she paid for two 
items she bought from a department store, which she says werent delivered to her home.
What happened
Miss X used her Barclays credit card to pay £125 for two items she bought from a 
department store (M). She paid to have the two items delivered but she says she never 
received them. Miss X asked Barclays for a refund. Barclays made a chargeback claim to M 
and temporarily credited Miss Xs account with the amount shed paid. M defended the claim 
and provided evidence of delivery. Barclays then wrote to Miss X and asked for some 
information to support her claim. It asked her to provide that information within 10 days and 
said it would re-charge the £125 to her account if it hadnt heard from her by then. It 
re-charged that amount about 10 days later.
Miss X complained to Barclays. She said she didnt receive its letter asking her for more 
information until 14 days after it was sent. And even though she then replied, she noticed the 
money had been taken from her account. She tried to contact Barclays using its online chat 
function but nobody answered her questions. She telephoned Barclays the next morning but 
it said it couldnt refund the money as it hadnt received any evidence the goods hadnt been 
delivered. Miss X said the situation was affecting her mental health and shed had to miss a 
therapy session because shed had to call Barclays. Barclays didnt uphold her complaint 
and so Miss X approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She said M had provided 
evidence of delivery and she was satisfied Barclays didnt have enough evidence to defend 
the chargeback. She could see that Miss X had tried to contact Barclays via its online chat 
function but no one had joined. But she noted that Miss X had managed to contact Barclays 
the next day and she didnt think it would have told her anything different had she been able 
to contact it using the online chat function. 
Miss X thought Barclays should have considered her dispute under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Our investigator explained that it hadnt done so because the 
cash price of the individual items Miss X had bought was less than £100. And section 75 
didnt apply in those circumstances. 
Miss X didnt agree with the investigators response to her complaint and so its been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Let me explain 
why. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process provided by the relevant card scheme  in this case Visa. It allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or 
services theyve paid for. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. If the bank, in this case Barclays, feels as though the 
claim wont be successful, they dont have to raise a chargeback. 
Barclays made a chargeback claim to M but they defended the claim for the reasons set out 
above. Barclays could have pursued the matter further with Visa but Id only expect it to do 
so if there was a reasonable prospect of success. 
The Visa chargeback rules say a bank can make a chargeback claim if the goods or services 
werent received. So, to be successful, a customer would need to provide evidence in 
support of their claim that the goods or services they bought hadnt been received. In this 
case, M provided evidence of delivery. So, Barclays asked Miss X for a copy of any delivery 
date agreed at the time of the order, and a copy of the latest correspondence with M. 
Miss X replied to say she didnt have any information about the delivery date and M had not 
given her anything in writing. Miss X has since said she would be able to provide further 
evidence in support of her claim. But shes not done that. And so, in light of the information 
provided by M and in the absence of anything to contradict it, I think it was fair for Barclays 
not to pursue the chargeback any further as there was no reasonable prospect of success. 
Claim handling
Miss X was upset that Barclays re-charged her account even though shed received its letter 
late and then replied to it. But I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in doing that. It said it 
would re-charge her account if she didnt send further documents to support her claim. And 
Miss X didnt provide any further evidence.
Im sorry to hear Miss X was so upset when her account was re-charged and I can 
understand why that was made worse when Barclays didnt respond when she tried to 
contact it using its online chat function. But she did manage to contact Barclays the next 
morning and it then explained the situation. And I dont think she would have been told 
anything different had she been able to contact someone the previous evening. Miss X said 
she missed a therapy session because of the need to contact Barclays the next day but I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for that as she could have made the 
call at another time.
Section 75
Miss X wondered why Barclays hadnt considered her claim under section 75. Section 75 
only applies to claims where the single item price attached to the goods is more than £100 
(and no more than £30,000). While the two items Miss X bought from M amounted to more 
than £100, individually they cost less than £100. So, I agree with our investigator that 
Barclays acted reasonably in not considering Miss Xs claim under section 75. 
Summary
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss X experienced but I think Barclays acted fairly in 
deciding not to pursue her chargeback claim further with Visa as there wasnt a reasonable 
prospect of success. I also think it would be unfair to hold Barclays responsible for the 
impact on Miss Xs mental health. And so, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Barclays to refund any of the money she paid to M, or to pay her any compensation. For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Xs complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman