DRN-3457679
The complaint
Mr F has complained through a representative that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading 
as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) didnt carry out sufficient checks before it approved him for a 
loan.  
What happened
A summary of Mr Fs borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amount agreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £3,000.00 05/06/2018 outstanding 24 £196.58
Mr F has had some problems repaying his loan and based on the statement of account as of 
November 2020, Mr F still owes around £806. 
Mr F, through his representative complained to Likely Loans who sent its final response 
letter on 14 October 2020. It explained that it wasnt upholding Mr Fs complaint about his 
loan as it said it carried out a proportionate check which showed that Mr F could afford the 
loan repayments.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr Fs representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She initially concluded Likely 
Loans had acted reasonably when it approved the first loan. It was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr F had provided and there wasnt anything in the credit check results it 
received which suggested financial difficulties. 
But this adjudicator thought, given the term of the loan and the amount advanced that 
Likely Loans shouldve carried out further checks. But she didnt have any information to say 
what Likely Loans may have seen at the time, and so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Sometime later, Mr Fs representative sent the Financial Ombudsman bank statements 
covering the period of time when the loan was approved. Mr Fs representative also 
explained the outgoings used by Likely Loans for Mr F wasnt correct. She said Mr F covered 
many of the smaller bills, so this figure was likely to be around £550 per month  compared 
to £185 which Likely Loans considered. 
Another adjudicator considered the bank statement sent to us by Mr Fs representative. But 
he came to similar conclusions to the first adjudicator. He said the income and expenditure 
which was declared to Likely Loans showed the loan was affordable and there wasnt 
anything in the credit check results which wouldve highlighted any concerns.  
The adjudicator did review the bank statements provided but he did say that he wouldnt 
have expected Likely Loans to have reviewed them. But overall, he didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. 
Mr Fs representative didnt accept the findings and she made the following comments.
The adjudicators view was based on Likely Loans verifying Mr Fs income  which it 
didnt do.
The bank statements provided also show Mr Fs income was also nowhere near 
£24,000 per year.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.For this loan, Likely Loans asked Mr F for his annual income and he declared he earned 
£24,000. Likely Loans then broke that down to a monthly figure of around £1,600. Mr F also 
declared the purpose of the loan was for other. 
Likely Loans carried out a credit check before this loan was approved, and Likely Loans has 
provided a summary of these checks. Likely Loans was aware Mr F had around £3,200 of 
current outstanding debt through 4 active credit accounts, which included two credit / store 
cards, a current account, and a communication contract  which was likely a mobile phone.
The remainder of the credit check data didnt show any other signs of recent financial 
difficulties, such as recent missed payments or other forms of insolvency. 
Likely Loans was aware of one default, but this was for around £300 and recorded a couple 
of years before this loan was granted. So, I dont think Likely Loans wouldve concluded that 
a two-year-old default was a sign that Mr F may have been having current financial 
difficulties or suggested that Mr F wouldve problems repaying this loan. 
Overall, based on the information in the credit report, Likely Loans it calculated that Mr F 
was committed to paying around £185 per month to service these outstanding commitments. 
Based on its checks, Likely Loans concluded that Mr F was in a position to repay his loan as 
and when the payments became due. 
I appreciate that Mr Fs representative has provided his bank statements which shows that 
Mr Fs monthly income was significantly less than the figure he declared to Likely Loans. But 
as this was the first loan, and the information provided by Mr F wasnt contradictory in any 
way, I dont think it was unreasonable for Likely Loans to have relied on the information it 
was being provided by Mr F.
I also dont think it had yet reached the point where it needed to verify the information Mr F 
was providing so, for this loan, I think it wouldve been disproportionate of Likely Loans to 
have asked to see his bank statements. 
The adjudicator thought, that had Likely Loans carried out a verification check of Mr Fs 
income (which wouldnt have included asking for bank statements) he thought that the 
system wouldnt have shown anything suspicious given the account in question was in Mr 
Fs sole name. The adjudicator made it clear that Likely Loans didnt need to check the bank 
statements and I agree. 
Likely Loans also doesnt appear to have taken any information from Mr F about his normal 
monthly expenditure (excluding credit commitments). Which either means he wasnt asked 
about other expenditure and declared he didnt have any, the information hasnt been 
provided or Likely Loans didnt ask. 
Given the value of the monthly repayments Mr F was expected to make I think Likely Loans 
ought to have made some enquiries with Mr F about what his living costs may have been. To 
be clear, I am not saying it needed to view his bank statements to obtain these. 
Mr Fs representative has told us she covered most of the living costs and was having her 
salary paid into Mr Fs sole account. It was only the smaller bills that Mr F would be expected 
to have covered. And I can see from the bank statements what look like all of the monthly 
bills coming out of the one account, including what looks like rent, council tax, credit cards 
and mobile phone payments. To me, it looks like there was in effect one pot of money (the 
combined income of Mr F and his representative) in which to cover the household bills.However, Mr Fs representative said Mr Fs contribution to the bills was around £550  
although looking at the bank statements provided it isnt clear exactly which salary paid 
which bills. So, based on the monthly income that was used by Likely Loans of £1,600 
(which I think Likely Loans was entitled to rely on) plus his monthly credit commitments the 
loan wouldve still looked affordable because he wouldve had sufficient disposable income. 
I accept, that had Likely Loans looked at or verified any of the information through a bank 
statement or wage slip it may have come to a different decision to lend. But, given this was 
the first loan and the credit checks didnt have any indicators of financial difficulties I think it 
was reasonable for Likely Loans to have relied on what Mr F declared to it about his income. 
I accept that Mr F did have some repayment problems for this loan, but these didnt appear 
until some 17 months later, which Likely Loans wouldnt have known about at the time the 
loan was advanced. 
Overall, while I have some concerns about the level and type of check that Likely Loans 
carried out before this loan was approved, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think 
further checks wouldve led Likely Loans to a different decision. It was therefore reasonable 
for Likely Loans to have advanced this loan. 
Repayment Plan
At the end of January 2020 Mr Fs represented contacted Likely Loans to say there had 
been a change of household circumstances because the representatives wages had 
reduced, and she had been the one making the loan repayments.
A copy of this call from January 2020 has been provided by Likely Loans and Mr Fs 
representative was open and honest about their current financial difficulties and how their 
priority was to reduce their outgoings because, at the moment they couldnt afford to service 
all of their debt. 
Mr Fs representative asked to cut the payment in half, and the agent suggested cutting the 
payment to £90, which the representative agreed to. Given what Likely Loans was being 
told, I consider it reasonable and in line with forbearance guidance to have agreed a reduced 
repayment plan. 
In May 2020 Mr F contacted Likely Loans and explained that he had now been impacted by 
the COVID-19 pandemic. A new plan was agreed, but unfortunately this failed as well. 
From October 2020 a new plan was set up, for the same amount of £90. The first payment 
was made in November 2020, but it seems no further payments have been made since. 
Looking at the information, I can see that Likely Loans has agreed repayment plans when it 
found out when Mr Fs household situation had changed which meant the contractual 
payments werent affordable for him. Repayment plans are one of the options available to it 
as outlined in the relevant guidance (within the Consumer Credit Source Book section 7). 
Overall, Im satisfied that Likely Loans reacted to Mr Fs household financial difficulties and 
offered support as would be expected once a lender becomes aware of repayment 
problems.  I am therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint about this part of his complaint. 
An outstanding balance remains due to Likely Loans and I would remind it of its obligation to 
treat Mr F fairly and with forbearance. I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by the decision that Ive reached, but I hope my 
explanation has been useful for him to understand why I have reached this outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman