DRN-3867783
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc discriminated against him when they held up an 
international payment into his account.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr K was sent €5,000 from Cyprus to his Santander account. Santander didnt 
credit the amount to his account right away, and instead asked for further information from 
the sending bank. The funds were later released to Mr Ks account.
When Mr K spoke to his Cypriot bank, he says he was told Santander had said they were 
holding the funds to investigate a connection to a terrorist organisation. He complained to 
Santander about this, and that Santander staff had been rude and racist towards him. 
Santander investigated these concerns. They said they hadnt accused Mr K of being a 
terrorist and didnt agree they had acted in a discriminatory way towards him. They 
apologised for any inconvenience caused by the additional checks on the payment, but this 
was required by their legal and regulatory obligations. But they did pay Mr K £30 to cover 
any overdraft charges while his payment was being checked.
Unhappy with this Mr K referred his complaint to our service, also saying that Santander had 
failed to send him a call recording hed requested. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened but didnt think Santander need to do anything further. They felt Santander were 
reasonable in carrying out additional checks on the payment, and this was in line with the 
terms of his account. They couldnt see Santander had caused any undue delays. They also 
werent persuaded Santander had been discriminatory to him, or that hed been treated 
differently from anyone else in the same circumstances. Lastly, they were satisfied 
Santander had sent Mr K the call recording hed requested.
Mr K disagreed with this outcome. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive taken in to account the relevant legislation around discrimination in the UK  
the Equality Act 2010. But this act makes it clear that whether the act has been breached 
can only be decided by a court. My role is to take this into account, along with the relevant 
regulations covering bank accounts and payment services, as well as what I consider to be 
good industry practice, when deciding whether Santander have treated Mr K fairly and 
reasonably.
The investigator was right to point out that Santander have legal and regulatory obligations 
to meet when providing accounts and payment services to their consumers. This includes an 
obligation to review payments. This can mean on occasion they are required to suspend or 
block certain payments, while they carry out a review. There is provision for this in the terms 
of Mr Ks account.
In this case, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to block the payment. I 
appreciate Mr K will have found this frustrating, as he would like his money as soon as 
possible. But as Santander were meeting their legal and regulatory obligations, theyve not 
done anything wrong by doing so.
To complete the review its not unreasonable for Santander to ask for further information. I 
can see that they were prompt in requesting further information from the sending bank. They 
also attempted to get the relevant information from Mr K. And once they received the 
information, they requested the funds were released in a reasonable timeframe. Overall, Im 
satisfied there hasnt been any unreasonable delays in the review. Santander have paid Mr 
K £30 to cover any overdraft fees, which is more than fair.
Ive reviewed the message Santander sent to the sending bank, and I cant see that there 
are any references to suspicions of terrorism. Ive not seen anything to suggest this was the 
reason for Santander delaying the payment. The message to the sending bank is a request 
for further information about the sender, but there is no accusation that Mr K is involved in 
anything illegal. The information asked for is not unreasonable or out of the ordinary for a 
financial transaction. If the Cypriot bank has said otherwise, I cant say this is the result of 
anything Santander have done.
Mr K feels very strongly that Santander have discriminated against him. But having reviewed 
the reasons for Santanders review, I dont see that this came about because of his race or 
nationality. Hes been treated the same as I would expect anyone else to be in a similar 
situation.
Having reviewed the available call recordings, I dont hear that Santander have accused 
Mr K of being involved in any illegal activity, such as terrorism. I can hear Mr K is very 
frustrated, but Santander handle the situation professionally.
There are differing recollections of the discussion in branch, and I understand Mr K was very 
upset at the time. Its unlikely I can say for certain what was discussed, or whether Mr K was 
told his accounts could be closed. But Im not persuaded its likely he was accused of illegal 
activity  this wasnt something Santander thought at the time. I cant see that any 
references to terrorism came from Santander. So, Im not persuaded Santander have treated 
him unfairly here. As such Im not asking them to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint.
Lastly, Im satisfied from the evidence provided that Santander did send Mr K the call 
recording he requested. It seems the delivery was attempted several times when Mr K 
wasnt available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman