DRN-4365475
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded her after she informed it shed 
been the victim of a scam.
 
What happened
Mrs S needed the services of a roofer and searched online for suitable suppliers. She was 
contacted by a Mr H who owned and operated a roofing business that was a limited 
company. This was in February 2022.
Mrs S and Mr H agreed a price and a start date. Mrs H made payments as agreed and work 
commenced as planned, with Mr H completing the roofing works within a week or so. But it 
soon became apparent to Mrs S that the work wasnt done to a reasonable standard, so she 
contacted Mr H.
Mr H promised to return and put right the work, but he never did. Hed also agreed to carry 
out some other work, including damp proofing. But, despite being paid, he didnt complete 
that work either.
Mrs S was in contact with Mr H for several months after the initial work had been done. He 
kept promising to attend the property but didnt show up. And he didnt return any of Mrs S 
money after promising to do so. In December 2022 Mr H stopped responding to Mrs S and 
his business was dissolved.
Mrs H has had other builders and roofers inspect the work carried out by Mr Hs business. 
Theyve all said the work done was of a very poor quality and that everything would need 
redoing.  
Mrs S contacted Barclays to say shed been scammed by Mr H. Barclays looked into what 
had happened but said it wouldnt refund Mrs S. It said Mrs S had a civil dispute with Mr H 
and his business; it didnt agree shed been the victim of a scam. Mrs S wasnt happy with 
Barclays response and so referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Mrs S complaint. He found Barclays had acted fairly 
and reasonably in giving the response it had. He agreed the matter was a civil dispute, 
where Mrs S hadnt received what shed paid for. His findings can be summarised as follows:
He acknowledged that Mrs S hadnt received what shed paid for, or that what was 
received was not of an acceptable standard. But went on to say that this didnt mean 
Mrs S had been scammed as legitimate businesses might breach a contract in this 
way, for any number of reasons.
He said it was more likely than not that Mr Hs business was a genuine one that had 
failed to deliver the goods and services paid for or had delivered but to an 
unacceptable standard.
He noted Mr Hs business was properly registered on Companies House.
He found no evidence of similar claims of a scam from other customers.
There was insufficient evidence to show that Mr H and his company set out to scam 
Mrs S or that it wasnt a genuine business when she entered into a contract with it.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S further but Im unable to uphold her complaint, and for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ive considered all that Mrs S and Barclays have sent 
us, though I may not comment on everything. Instead, Ill focus on the key points that 
determine the outcome of the complaint. 
There are some instances where a bank like Barclays might be expected to prevent a scam 
from happening. And there will be times when a scam isnt stopped and where a bank must 
refund a customer. But principally its a banks implied legal duty to execute the payment 
instructions its customer gives (as set out in the Payment Service Regulations 2017). And, 
generally speaking, a customer will then be responsible for such payments.
A bank might become responsible for payments it has executed if there is evidence a scam 
has taken place. But where there is a dispute between a customer and a genuine supplier of 
goods and services, the bank is very unlikely to be responsible for refunding a customer. 
Its clear from the evidence that Mrs S has provided that shes been very poorly treated by 
Mr H. Ive no doubt that the work done by Mr H and his company was of a very poor quality. 
The photos shes provided of the work make that quite clear. And I also dont doubt that 
some of what was paid for hasnt been delivered at all.
I can understand why this would feel like a scam to Mrs S. The actions of Mr H must feel 
quite deliberate and dishonest. But Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to say a 
scam has taken place. Im satisfied the dispute she has is a civil matter between her and 
Mr H (and his company).
I dont intend to restate all our investigator said in detail. But the points he raised are valid. 
All the evidence we have, from the Companies House registration to the information 
provided by the bank the money was sent to, points to Mr H and his company being genuine 
and in the business of carrying out roofing work at the time Mrs S contracted them. 
That the work has turned out to be of such poor quality doesnt mean the supplier wasnt 
genuine. The supplier might have breached the contract in terms of sub-standard work, and 
even in terms of not providing some of what was paid for, but this doesnt mean a scam has 
taken place.
It is true that Mr H did attend Mrs S property and completed works. He then maintained 
contact with Mrs S long after those works had been completed. It may be true that the 
contact didnt lead to the work being completed, and some of that contact might have been 
prompted by Mrs S reporting the scam, but overall, I dont consider these to be the actions of 
a deliberate scammer. If this were a scam, Id more likely expect to see little to no work 
taking place on receipt of payment and then all contact cut-off. 
There was no bogus or non-existent company involved here. The money Mrs S sent went 
where she expected it to. And the contract she entered into was at least partially fulfilled, 
notwithstanding the quality issues involved. Again, this isnt indicative of a scam. 
I cant say why Mr H did what he did or why he treated Mrs S so poorly. But Im not 
persuaded his intent was to scam her from the outset.
I know Mr H dissolved his company in December 2022. I understand this could mean Mrs S 
has difficulty in pursuing him for the money she sent. But this doesnt change the position on 
whether this is a civil dispute or a scam. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman