DRN-3578531
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a Cifas marker against him 
without due cause. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This 
is an extract from my provisional decision: 
In November 2018 Mr M received a payment into an account he held with another bank, 
who Ill call Bank B. £1,000 of this money was transferred from his account with Bank B to 
his account with Lloyds shortly thereafter. Bank B then received notification from the sending 
bank that the money had been sent to Mr Ms account as the result of fraud. Bank B said 
they tried to contact Mr M but were not successful in getting through to him, nor did they 
hear back from him as they had requested. Bank B looked into what happened and thought 
that Mr M was likely misusing his facility as: 
The funds were transferred to another account of Mr Ms, which was not the usual 
activity of an unknown third party accessing his account without him knowing; 
Some money was removed via cash withdrawal using Mr Ms card and PIN and there 
was no clear point of compromise that would have allowed someone else access to 
these; 
Whilst the mobile used was a new device, it was registered using a one time 
passcode that had been sent to the mobile number that was registered to Mr Ms 
account over a year prior to this;
They didnt think he had provided a plausible explanation for what happened. They 
said he hadnt questioned the account closure at the time, and he hadnt flagged the 
account activity as suspicious at the time when funds went into two of his accounts. 
Bank B closed Mr Ms account and registered him with Cifas. They also notified Lloyds about 
their concerns. Lloyds reviewed Mr Ms account and took the decision to close it, however 
this was not done at the time due to an internal error. Mr M contacted them in 2020 when he 
noticed the account which he had assumed had been closed in 2018 was still appearing on 
his credit file. Lloyds then looked at what had happened, and closed his account and 
registered him with Cifas for using his account to receive fraudulent funds. 
When our service asked Mr M about these transactions in and out of his accounts, he said 
he had: 
no knowledge of these funds, where they came from or how they came to be in either 
of his accounts; 
not given his banking information to anyone nor allowed anyone to use his account;
lost his Bank B card around this time, and had reported it lost as soon as he had 
noticed; 
a copy of his PIN recorded on his phone, although he didnt lose this and no one else 
had access to it; 
accessed his online banking with both banks to check his balance as well as to 
transfer funds between his accounts; 
been told that around this time two men had appeared at his home address and 
threatened his family and alleged that he owed them money  the police were called 
but he didnt know who these people were or why they thought he owed them money. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he remained dissatisfied. Lloyds declined to 
remove the Cifas marker, and explained to that they were satisfied he had used his banking 
facility held with them to receive fraudulent funds. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and recommended that the complaint be upheld. This was because they didnt 
think Lloyds had sufficient evidence to support referring Mr M to Cifas. Mr M agreed with 
these findings, but when we didnt hear back from Lloyds the complaint was referred to me 
to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all of the evidence Having done so, I am minded to reach a different 
outcome from our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The type of Cifas marker that Lloyds asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  relating to 
the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. To file such a marker, Lloyds are not 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas 
guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that the money sent to Mr M was as the result of a fraud, and that he was 
deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that Lloyds would be able to escalate its 
concerns to Cifas. Based on my current review of the evidence, I do think there is enough 
evidence for Lloyds to maintain the Cifas marker. Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that the funds that were sent to Bank B and onto Mr Ms Lloyds account 
were sent as the result of a fraud. Mr M says he was unaware of the funds  not that he had 
any entitlement to the funds. What is in dispute is whether the evidence suggests it is likely 
that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in receiving the funds in his Lloyds account; or whether 
he was unaware or unwitting. I am minded to say in my final decision that I think it is most 
likely that Mr M made the transactions on his Bank B account to his Lloyds account, or 
allowed someone to do so on his behalf, and that he was deliberately dishonest in doing so. 
By extension, this would mean he would have been deliberately dishonest in receiving the 
£1,000 into his Lloyds account. This is because: 
For an unknown third party to have done this without him knowing, they would have 
had to had his card and PIN for his account with Bank B to make withdrawals of 
some of the fraudulent funds. Whilst Mr M said he lost his card around this time, his 
replacement card was never reported lost or stolen and this was the card that was 
used for the transactions in question. 
There is no plausible point of compromise for an unknown third party to have 
accessed his PIN to his card with Bank B  whilst he had it recorded on his mobile 
phone, he said that no one would have had access to this and he had not lost his 
phone at any point. So I cannot see how someone unknown to Mr M would have 
completed the withdrawals from Bank B of the fraudulent funds. There is no clear point of compromise for the Bank B mobile banking details required 
to access the app to transfer the funds to his Lloyds account. 
The phone number the one time passcode was sent to was registered with Bank B 
about a year before the fraudulent funds came into the account. It seems unlikely that 
an unknown third party was able to do this, and would then wait a year to utilize the 
access they had to Mr Ms account. And the IP address the new device used 
matches one that Mr M used on genuine logins. So I think it is most likely that the 
one time passcode was sent to Mr Ms genuine number. And so, there is no clear 
point of compromise for the one time passcode which used to register a new device 
to his mobile banking.
There is no logical benefit to an unknown third party, who somehow had access to all 
of the information needed to move and withdraw funds from Mr Ms account with 
Bank B, for them to instead move the funds to another account in Mr Ms name that 
they may have had no access to. It would seem more likely that they would withdraw 
all of the funds, or move them on to another account they had full access to. 
So having considered all the evidence and information I have so far, I am minded to say that 
it was most likely that Mr M completed the activity on his account with Bank B, and then 
moved fraudulent funds to his Lloyds account with deliberate dishonesty  so I currently 
think Lloyds can fairly and reasonably maintain the Cifas marker.
My provisional decision
Unless my thinking changes upon receipt of new evidence, I am minded to reject this 
complaint. 
The deadline for further submissions has passed, so the case has come to me to make my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision to say they were happy with the decision and 
had nothing further to raise. Mr M confirmed he did receive my provisional decision, but did 
not end up submitting any response or any further information. As such, for the reasons set 
out above, I conclude that it is fair and reasonable for the Cifas marker to remain.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC need do nothing 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman