DRN-2004561
The complaint
Ms B complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
(agreement) with Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
Ms B is represented in her complaint by a third party. However, for ease, I will simply refer to 
Ms B throughout this decision rather than Ms B and the third party. 
What happened
In May 2019 Ms B entered into an agreement with Close Brothers for the acquisition of a 
used diesel car with a cash price of £4,990. The car was approximately eight years old and 
had travelled approximately 90,000 miles. 
Under the terms of the agreement, and everything else being equal, Ms B undertook to 
make an advance payment of £300, followed by 47 monthly payments of £129.99 and one 
monthly payment (in month 48) of £139.99  making a total repayable of £6,549.52.
On 27 June 2019 Close Brothers issued Ms B with a final response letter (FRL) in respect 
of concerns she had raised about how the engine was running and the loss of power. Under 
cover of this FRL Close Brothers said it understood the car had been repaired by the 
supplying dealership (or its agents) to Ms Bs satisfaction and at no cost and therefore it was 
treating this matter as settled.
On 1 October 2019 Close Brothers issued Ms B with a FRL in respect of concerns she had 
raised about the fuel system. Under cover of this FRL Close Brothers said it understood this 
issue was unlikely to have been present or developing at the time of supply  the car having 
travelled 5,000 miles whilst in Ms Bs possession  but it was prepared to pay the cost she 
had incurred in getting this issue resolved with the supplying dealership (or its agents). 
Close Brothers also added that the supplying dealership (or its agents) believed 
contaminated fuel may have been used.
On 26 November 2019 Close Brothers issued Ms B with a FRL in respect of concerns she 
had raised about the previous fuel system issue reoccurring. Under cover of this FRL Close 
Brothers said that an independent report that had been commissioned (dated 
18 November 2019 and undertaken by a company that I will call A) found the car had 
recently been mis-fuelled and because of this it wasnt upholding Ms Bs complaint. This 
report confirmed that a fuel sample was taken from the car and it was immediately evident 
that there was a strong odour of petrol.
Unhappy with Close Brothers 26 November 2019 FRL Ms B referred her complaint to our 
service for investigation.
On 19 December 2019 Ms B got her own inspection carried out at a cost of £96. The report 
issued in respect of this inspection said there was no evidence of petrol being present but 
there was dark residue visible around the regulator control and heavy residue around the 
valve filter. The report recommended that further work be carried out before further testing 
on the car was undertaken.
At the request of our investigator Close Brothers got A to test the fuel sample it had taken in 
November 2019. The report issued in respect of this test, dated 4 June 2020, said there was 
no evidence of any significant petrol contamination but that the sample tested wouldnt pass 
road specification due to contamination. The report went on to say that due to the 
contamination level its unlikely the fault (with the car) would have pre-existed for a long 
period of time and the last fuelling is the potential cause.
Having considered what both parties had said and submitted the investigator concluded that 
Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said that he was satisfied that the 
current problems with the car were unlikely to have been present or developing at the time of 
supply and were more likely to have developed around October 2019 after Ms B had 
travelled a further 8,000 miles in the car.
Ms B didnt agree. In summary she said:
There was a fuel fault with the car in June 2019 and subsequently as evidenced by 
the various invoices provided to our service.
She doesnt believe the water pump or fuel pump had ever been changed.
The first thing that went wrong with the car was the fuel injector and the only way this 
can fail is dirt blocking it.
Following the above a couple of sensors in the fuel rail failed and once again these 
can only fail if dirt is present.
As demonstrated by the invoice dated 13 September 2019 the supplying dealership 
cleaned the fuel system and put fuel in the car three weeks before it failed again. 
How can dirt get into the system in such a short period of time?
Its not now in dispute that the car was never mis-fuelled yet this was the reason 
used by Close Brothers in not upholding her complaint.
She looked to reject the car within the first six months.
The supplying dealership cleaned the system demonstrating there was dirt in it from 
day one.
The investigator considered Ms Bs response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said:
Contemporaneous notes made by Close Brothers suggest that the fuel and water 
pumps were replaced.
Although there had been a number of faults with the car these had all been ultimately 
addressed/repaired meaning rejection of the car by Ms B wasnt possible.
He couldnt reasonably conclude, based on what had been said and provided by all 
the parties, that the latest fault was a fault that was present or developing at the time 
of supply.
Ms B didnt agree. In summary she said:
The water and fuel pumps had never been replaced.
Close Brothers never advised her that she had the right to reject the car rather than 
having it repaired multiple times.She then went on to reiterate what had gone wrong with the car and when.
The investigator considered Ms Bs further response to his view that her complaint shouldnt 
be upheld but he still wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Therefore, Ms Bs complaint has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. 
Its clear Ms B has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Ms B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant legislation says that Close Brothers are responsible for supplying Ms B with a 
car that is of satisfactory quality. But whats considered satisfactory will depend on a range 
of factors. These would include things like the age and mileage of the car when it was 
supplied, its overall condition and the price paid. 
The car was around eight years old at the point of sale and had covered fairly significant 
mileage (albeit not necessarily significant for its age). This was reflected in the cash price 
which was a lot less than what it would have cost brand new. So, what would be considered 
satisfactory for this car would be very different to a brand new one. 
Youd still expect a second hand car to be free from faults. But you would expect certain 
components to be more worn and in need of replacement sooner. There might also be a 
reasonable expectation that more regular maintenance might be required and that some 
parts would be more prone to failure as they were nearer the end of their expected life cycle.
The car was subject to a number of investigations and repairs by the supplying dealership 
(or its agents) between May 2019 and September 2019. And shortly after the last 
investigation and repair the car failed, and it remains in a failed state today. Now this might 
indicate that a fault or faults were present or developing at the point of sale. But I have to 
consider the number of times the car went in for investigation and repair between May 2019 
and September 2019 might suggest with what the other evidence provided might suggest.
Close Brothers has provided two independent inspection reports, both from A. Ive 
discounted the first report given that it would appear that all the parties accept that the car 
hadnt been mis-fuelled. However, this leaves the second report. This report states:
High Total Contamination (insoluble material) level is present usually attributed to direct 
particles within the tank. Action should be taken to correct. Removal of the solid debris is 
recommended before further use The [fuel] sample tested would not pass road specification due to contamination seen. The 
fuel system and possibly engine may have been damage due to contamination present and 
the effects should not be under estimated. Due to the contamination level it appears 
unlikely the fault could have pre-existed for a long period of time and the last fuelling 
becomes a concern and potential cause for the issue / defect. [my emphasis]
Ms B has provided a report from her own appointed engineer. But I dont think this report 
helps Ms B. First, although this report comments on other parts of the car, its not in direct 
contradiction of the second report from A. This report also suggests that further testing 
should be/needs to be carried out and it makes no comment on whether the fault, or faults, 
were likely to have been present or developing at the time the car was supplied.
Ms B says that Close Brother never advised her that she might have the right to reject the 
car (in the first six months) rather than have repairs to it undertaken. But Close Brothers was 
under no obligation to point this out to Ms B.
Given what I say above and given that Ms B was able to travel over 8,000 miles before the 
car finally failed, I find that on the balance of probabilities the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to her and the current fault(s) werent present or developing at the point of 
supply. 
I note that under cover of its FRL dated 1 October 2019, Close Brothers said it was prepared 
to refund Ms B the cost she incurred in respect of an invoice dated 13 September 2019. I 
dont know if Ms B took Close Brothers up on this offer, but I think its a fair one. So, if Ms B 
hasnt already accepted this offer, she might want to consider doing so now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers need do nothing further in respect of this complaint 
except pay Ms B £159.20 (in respect of the invoice dated 13 September 2019) where it 
hasnt done so already and where Ms B would now like this sum refunded to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman