DRN-3440409
The complaint
Mr F complains certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds unfairly declined to fund costs and 
expenses under his legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to the underwriters, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on 
their behalf. 
What happened
Mr F had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with the underwriters. In 2015 he was injured in a 
road traffic accident. Mr F took legal action for damages against the third party involved.
Shortly before the trial, Mr Fs solicitors asked the underwriters if theyd cover Mr Fs legal 
costs and expenses if the trial went ahead. The underwriters declined cover on grounds Mr F 
had notified his claim under the policy too late and he didnt have reasonable prospects of 
recovering more in damages than the third party had offered under Part 36 of the Civil 
Procedure Rules. 
Mr F accepted an offer to settle the claim and the trial didnt go ahead. Mr F recovered 
damages in line with his barristers advice. But he was unhappy he hadnt recovered all his 
medical costs and other expenses and been denied the chance to have his case heard in 
court. He thought the underwriters had unreasonably refused to cover his LEI claim.
The underwriters rejected his complaint. Since Mr F was unhappy with their response, he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator didnt think the underwriters had done anything wrong. She couldnt 
establish whether the underwriters had been notified of Mr Fs complaint earlier than they 
said. But she didnt think that mattered, since the underwriters had reasonably concluded, 
based on the legal advice theyd seen, that the policy condition relating to prospects of 
success wasnt met.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view, so his complaints been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr F was unhappy with the outcome of his legal claim against the third party. 
He said he hadnt recovered some of his medical costs and other expenses which the 
underwriters should pay. But legal expenses insurance only covers the costs of taking legal 
action or obtaining legal advice  it isnt designed to pay the damages a policyholder is 
trying to recover from someone else if that is what Mr F was expecting. In any event, the 
underwriters said there was no cover under the policy at all. 
The starting point for considering Mr Fs complaint is the relevant terms of his LEI policy. 
The underwriters agreed to pay legal costs and expenses, up to the limit of indemnity, to 
pursue a personal injury claim and uninsured loss recovery following an accident provided:
Mr F reported the claim to the underwriters immediately after he became aware of 
circumstances that could give rise to a claim under the policy
The claim always had reasonable prospects of success 
Legal costs and expenses included the other sides costs and disbursements where Mr F 
was ordered to pay them. 
The underwriters say they first became aware of Mr Fs claim on 28 July 2021 when they 
were asked to confirm whether theyd cover the costs of trial. Its disappointing the 
underwriters havent been able to explain the relationships between the various parties 
involved in Mr Fs complaint. As a result, it hasnt been possible to establish whether the 
underwriters were notified of Mr Fs claim - either direct or through an agent  sooner. So, I 
cant reach any conclusions about whether there was late notification. But, having 
considered things carefully, I dont think that affects the outcome of Mr Fs complaint. The 
key issue here is whether it was fair for the underwriters to refuse cover when the claim was 
brought to their attention on 28 July.
For cover to be available under the policy, Mr Fs claim had to have reasonable prospects of 
success. That meant there had to be a greater than 50% chance of Mr F successfully 
pursuing the claim and of enforcing any judgment he might obtain. This is a common 
requirement in LEI policies, and we dont consider it to be unfair. An insurer runs the risk of 
having to pay the other sides costs as well as the policyholders costs if a case is lost  or, 
as here, the Part 36 offer isnt beaten. Its unlikely an uninsured person would want to run 
the risk of pursuing a case if they were advised they were unlikely to succeed. I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to run that risk either.
It's reasonable for an insurer to rely on the advice of legal professionals provided they are 
suitably qualified, and their advice isnt obviously wrong or factually incorrect. Im satisfied 
the barrister advising Mr F had appropriate experience and Im not aware the advice he gave 
contained any obvious errors. So, I think it was reasonable for the underwriters to rely on it.
The barrister originally advised that the prospects of beating the Part 36 offer were 50/50. He 
noted the costs which Mr F could be liable for, if he went to trial and failed to beat the offer, 
could be significant. The solicitors asked the barrister to reconsider prospects when the third 
party changed its position on the value of the claim. Having done so, the barrister thought 
the prospects were 51% provided a particular judge wasnt appointed to hear the case. The 
barrister made clear his overall assessment of the case and concerns about the strength of 
the evidence hadnt changed. 
The underwriters considered the barristers advice. Since the judge wasnt going to be 
appointed until a couple of days later, I think it was reasonable for the underwriters to 
consider cover based on prospects of success being 50/50. And, on that basis, it was fair for 
them to decline cover as the policy condition that prospects should be reasonable wasnt 
met. 
I acknowledge the underwriters didnt give Mr F an answer on policy cover until the time for 
accepting the Part 36 offer had expired and trial date had passed. Id expect them to have 
responded by 29 July. But Mr Fs told us that when he was discussing a new settlement offer 
with his solicitors that day, they told him the LEI policy wouldnt fund his trial costs. And      
Mr Fs decision to settle the case was based on that understanding, as well as other factors. 
So, I dont think the underwriters delay affected the outcome of his legal claim. I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feeling about how his legal claim was handled and 
resolved. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I think the underwriters fairly declined his claim 
and their delay in letting him know didnt affect the outcome. So, whilst I understand my 
decision will be disappointing for Mr F, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman