DRN-2365148
The complaint
 Mr M is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA didnt collect a payment on his 
account, and have now recorded this as being missed.
What happened
 Mr M has a credit account with PayPal. As part of the agreement, Mr M needed to pay a 
minimum payment each month. But he said had problems setting up a direct debit to do this 
automatically, so he made manual payments instead. 
Mr M says that, when he logged into his account to make his January 2020 payment, he saw 
a message saying he had a payment for £100 scheduled to be collected on the payment due 
date. So he didnt attempt to make this payment manually. But the £100 was never collected. 
And, because of this, PayPal reported the missed payment to the credit reference agencies.
Mr M didnt provide evidence of the message hed received when he tried to make the 
January 2020 payment. But he did evidence a similar message hed received when he tried 
to pay the February 2020 payment, saying a payment of £100 was scheduled to be collected 
on 18 February 2020  the payment due date. But PayPal didnt collect £100 on this date, 
they only collected the minimum payment.
Mr M complained to PayPal. But, because there was no evidence of the message he saw 
when he tried to pay his January 2020 payment, PayPal didnt agree to remove the late 
payment marker. Mr M was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator said Mr M had had problems setting up his direct debit, as he wasnt able to 
confirm the direct debit with PayPal and which PayPal have acknowledged. She said there 
was a missed payment problem in March 2019, because of the direct debit, which PayPal 
sorted out. And Mr M had made manual payments after this point.
The investigator thought Mr M was likely to have seen the message he said he did. She also 
said Mr M paid the missing payment as soon as he realised it hadnt been collected. 
Because of this she thought PayPal should remove the late payment marker from Mr Ms 
credit file and pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused as a result of the late payment showing (and continuing to show) on his credit file.
PayPal didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr M hadnt made a payment on time, 
and they have an obligation to accurately report this to the credit reference agencies. They 
also thought the investigator had made assumption about what Mr M saw, which was 
objectively unfair. Additionally they said Mr M had never contacted them about his direct 
debit issues, and they also thought Mr M could have easily called us to make a payment.
So this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
PayPal said they sent a statement to Mr M on 21 December 2019, confirming his minimum 
payment and when this was due. They also said they sent him an email on 11 January 2020, 
reminding him that his payment was due on 16 January 2020.
But PayPal have only provided a letter in which the text of the emails they say they sent to 
Mr M was replicated. They havent provided copies of the emails themselves, or a copy of 
the December 2019 statement. So Ive seen nothing that actually shows me the statement or 
follow up email were sent to Mr M.
Mr M has provided a screenshot of a message he had when he tried to pay his February 
2020 payment. This says youve already scheduled a payment of £100.00 for 18 Feb 2020. 
He also says that he received an identical message (except for the date) when he tried to 
pay the January 2020 payment. Which is why he didnt pay this manually.
Mr M has also provided proof that his direct debit was set-up with PayPal in February 2020.
But Mr M hasnt been able to provide a copy of the message he saw in January 2020. And 
PayPal havent provided copies of any messages Mr M wouldve seen when he logged into 
their system.
So neither PayPal nor Mr M have been able to provide the key evidence in this case. 
Because of that, my decision is not only based on what Ive seen, but also on what I think is 
most likely to have happened in the circumstances. But I disagree with PayPal that doing so 
is objectively unfair  this is the process we follow when the necessary evidence hasnt 
been supplied by the parties.
Its not disputed that Mr M didnt make any payment in January 2020. But, from what hes 
said, he knew a payment was due and when it needed to be paid by. So, even though I cant 
be sure PayPal actually sent him either the statement or reminder email, I dont think that 
has any relevance.
I also dont know what message Mr M saw when he tried to make the January 2020 
payment. PayPals log only shows that he logged into his account on six occasions between 
21 December 2019 (the statement date) and 16 January 2020 (the payment due date). 
Because Mr M had been making regular monthly manual payments without issue, its 
reasonable for me to conclude that at least one of these six logins was an attempt to make a 
payment. And Mr M didnt do this, because of the message he says he saw.
I dont doubt Mr M recalls seeing a message telling him he had payment for £100 already 
scheduled to be collected. And, on seeing this, it would be reasonable for him not to make a 
manual payment. Ive seen the similar message he received about the February 2020 
payment, and its not disputed that PayPal didnt collect the £100 they said they would. They 
only collected the minimum payment. From this its reasonable for me to conclude that the 
contents of the messages Mr M was receiving from PayPal around this time were unreliable.So, given the above, I think its more likely than not that Mr M received an incorrect or 
inaccurate message from PayPal that resulted in him not making a payment before the due 
date. And he didnt pay the missed payment until February 2020, when he realised it hadnt 
been collected.
When looking at what PayPal need to do to put things right, I need to consider what wouldve 
happened if Mr M hadnt seen a message from PayPal saying they were going to collect 
£100. And then didnt. Given his previous payment history, Im satisfied Mr M wouldve made 
the January 2020 payment. And PayPal wouldnt have recorded a missed payment with the 
credit reference agencies. So its only fair they now remove this missed payment marker.
The investigator has also recommended PayPal pay Mr M £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience the recording of a missed payment has caused him. Im satisfied this 
wouldve been distressing to Mr M as it wouldve made it more difficult for him obtain any 
credit and adversely affected his credit score. As the £150 is in the region of what I wouldve 
awarded, I see no compelling reason to change this recommendation.
Putting things right
 For the reasons stated, PayPal should:
remove the missed payment marker for the January 2020 payment from Mr Ms 
credit file.
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause by him 
having a missed payment marker on his credit file.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above uphold Mr Ms complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman