DRN-2645504
The complaint
Mr As complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to a request he made for his 
personal information, problems he encountered with his credit card, and the service he 
received in a branch and over the telephone. Mr A feels that Lloyds have breached data 
protection regulations and are withholding CCTV footage which would show how badly he 
was treated.
What happened
Mr A complains that he had problems with his credit card as he was unable to use the 
promotional offer that came with the card nor manage his card online. And despite making 
requests he has not received any help from Lloyds. Mr A also tried to use his card in store, 
and it hadnt worked which he found embarrassing. 
Mr A went to the Lloyds Harrow branch in November 2019 to try and resolve the matter. He 
said he had made multiple visits to other branches previously. Whilst in the Harrow branch 
he had to wait in a queue to be seen, and when he was, the bank clerk she said she was 
unable to help him and he would need to speak to customer services, but at that moment 
they were closed. Mr A feels this was not true. Mr A said matters escalated to the point 
where staff were staring and getting really close to intimidate him leaving him feeling 
threatened and singled out. He also says that as the branch was closing he was forced out 
by the branch by the Manager who he said tried to push him out of the door. Following his 
experience Mr A submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to Lloyds but said he 
never received the information requested. 
Mr A is critical of the way in which his complaint was handled by Lloyds stating that although 
a branch manager said CCTV would be provided to him this was overridden by the 
complaints manager who was biased in her investigation. He feels the Lloyds website is 
designed in such a way as to make it almost impossible to register a complaint and that once 
he had, he was left going around in circles with the branch and card services phone support 
team. He also feels the agents he spoke to were doing their best to obstruct his complaint
Lloyds have partially upheld Mr As complaint as it recognised it had provided some poor 
customer service and it took too long to complete his DSAR request. Lloyds made a 
compensation payment of £350 to Mr A to reflect these failings. Lloyds also apologised to Mr 
A for the time it had taken them to provide a response to his complaint. But Lloyds did not 
accept that its Branch manager pushed Mr A out of the branch door. 
Mr A was unhappy with Lloydss final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation Lloyds had paid was enough to put things right. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
Mr A has also raised issues about the service he has received from this service in the 
handling of his complaint. Those issues will be considered separately by this service and as 
they do not form part of Mr As complaint against Lloyds I will not be addressing them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened has been brief but Ive read all of Mr As communications, so 
I am aware he went into a lot more detail. Im going to focus now on what I think the key 
issues are. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the nature of our service as being an 
informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably, and Ive looked Ive considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is 
not complete, Ive thought about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the 
evidence which is available to me. There are a number of areas to Mr As complaint which I 
will set out below.
Credit Card and Online Banking
Mr A said he had issues using his credit card and that he couldnt use it in 2019. I can see 
that Mr As credit card account was opened on 9 January 2019 and that he made a balance 
transfer shortly after at the 0% promotional rate. So, although Mr A initially said he could not 
use the promotional offer this is not actually accurate. Lloyds evidence also shows there 
werent any declined transactions until May 2019. There was a successful transaction on 28 
January 2019 and 30 March 2019. So, I cant agree with Mr A that he was unable to use his 
card.
Mr A also said he didnt have online access for a period. Lloyds have accepted this and that 
it caused Mr A some inconvenience. Lloyds have produced evidence for April to December 
2020 which shows the problem was seemingly resolved and Ive seen no evidence to say 
that it resumed. The evidence shows that Mr A was able to log into his account in April, and 
in August he logged in twice to pay his account and cancel a direct debit, and then in 
December 2020 he logged in and looked at a balance transfer. 
So, I am satisfied that Lloyds did have an IT issue and that this did cause some disruption, 
upset, and inconvenience to Mr A.
DSAR Request
Lloyds have accepted that there was an administration error meaning the correct process 
wasnt followed resulting in its DSAR Team not receiving Mr As request. They have 
apologised for that. I understand Mr A is upset about this and feels this is a breach of GDPR. 
On this issue it is important to note its not the role of this service to decide whether or not 
theres been any data breach - only the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. 
If Mr A wishes to complain to the ICO, there is more information on how to do this on its 
website.
Provision of CCTV footage
Both Mr A and this service have asked Lloyds to provide the CCTV footage and Lloyds have 
not done so. Clearly without seeing it I am unable to comment, but for the purposes of this 
decision I have no powers to compel Lloyds to provide it. I understand Mr A believes this also to be a breach of GDPR and whilst I make not comment on that, if he wishes to pursue 
it then he should contact the ICOs office.
Branch Manager
There are conflicting views here. What is clear, is that Mr A was in the branch as he says he 
was, and just before 4pm. A manager did speak with him, and whilst Mr A feels he was 
pushed by the manager, Lloyds have said otherwise. From their perspective they say Mr A 
was conducting himself in an unacceptable manor and threatening to take videos of their 
staff. Lloyds said it couldnt find any evidence that Mr A had been mistreated but did accept 
that its manager asked him to leave and opened the door for him to do so.
Quite obviously without the CCTV footage of the incident I cannot say what actually 
happened and I am left with two very different accounts. Mr A has accepted he was using his 
mobile phone which accords with the managers recollection. Whether Mr A was acting 
aggressively I do not know, but I can accept that if the manager perceived him to be so 
doing then he was entitled to ask Mr A to leave the premises. Without further evidence to 
support Mr As allegations of bad treatment and being pushed from the branch I cannot 
uphold this element of his complaint.
Complaint Handling
I have also considered whether Mr As complaint about Lloyds complaint handling is 
something we can consider. Whilst our jurisdiction is limited to regulated activities, we can 
consider complaints that are ancillary to a regulated or other covered activity. So, whilst as a 
general rule if a complaint is solely about complaint handling we wouldnt be able to look into 
it. But that is not the case here because the complaint Mr A brings is ancillary to his 
complaint about his treatment in branch. So, I do think we can look into this as well.
Mr A has complained about Lloyds website and it being designed in a way that makes it 
impossible to register a complaint. I have not found any evidence that Lloyds deliberately 
designed their website in such a fashion, although I am happy to accept Mr As assertion 
that he found it personally difficult to navigate. However, that does not mean that others may 
do so. 
Mr A has said he feels Lloyds staff were deliberately obstructive, but again I have not seen 
any evidence to support this. I can understand Mr As frustration since he did not receive the 
response he anticipated, but again that does not show evidence of obstruction. I can see 
that Lloyds produced a final response letter which detailed their investigation and findings. 
That has satisfied me that Lloyds understood the nature of the complaints being made and 
went on to answer them appropriately, even though this was not the answer Mr A wanted. 
Mr A has also said he feels that when he did manage to register his complaint this led the 
complaint handler using her imagination in reaching her decision rather than looking at the 
facts. Whilst the decision reached was not to Mr As liking, there is no evidence to suggest 
that the complaint handler did anything other than attempt to reach a rational decision based 
on her analysis of the facts. 
Lloyds have apologised for the time taken it took to provide Mr A with a resolution to his 
complaint, explaining that it had been placed with the wrong area which had caused a delay 
in responding to him. 
Lloyds have recognised that the service Mr A received fell short of that which they would 
wish to deliver and have paid him £350 in compensation. There have indeed been failures in 
service and so the issue for me is what is a reasonable amount of compensation ought to 
be. When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we 
consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our 
website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.
In my view, any award for the trouble and upset caused here also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of life which we all face when dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that at times it can be inconvenient. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, and in the light of my findings, I think the 
compensation paid by Lloyds of £350 is enough to reflect the impact of the service failures 
upon Mr A.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid Mr A £350 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair 
and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman