DRN-4058518
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) has refused to refund her 
in full for transactions totalling approximately £5,500 which she said she did not make or 
otherwise authorise. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 to explain why I thought Ms Cs complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said I would consider anything else that either party wanted to 
give me prior to reaching a final decision in this case. This is an extract from my provisional 
decision: 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Ms C says First Direct have declined to refund her in 
full for three payments totalling approximately £5,500 that she says she did not make or 
otherwise authorise. First Direct think it is most likely that she did make the payments, but as 
a part of a scam, and offered to refund 50% of the £3,900 payment.
Ms C said that in December 2020 she received a text message claiming that she was owed 
a tax rebate and providing a link to click on for further information. Ms C said she clicked on 
the link but realised it could be a scam, so she did not enter any personal information. Ms C 
said she later received a call from someone purporting to be from First Direct. She explained 
they asked a security question she knew First Direct did not ask  for part of her date of 
birth. She terminated the call without divulging any of her personal information to them. She 
decided to call First Direct about half an hour after this call to let them know what had 
happened as she said she was concerned about the risk of fraud. She said whilst she was 
on the phone to them she looked on her phone and saw that funds had left her account. 
£3,900 of the money went to an unknown third partys account, and the remaining funds 
went to her own account held with another business and were then sent on from there to an 
unknown third partys account.
Ms C denies making or otherwise authorising any of the payments from her First Direct 
account, or the account held with the other business. Ms C thinks that First Direct should 
have prevented the payments from taking place  she said they blocked a legitimate 
payment of around £1,500 a few months prior to this three times. So, she complained to First 
Direct, who didnt agree that these were unauthorised payments. First Direct think it is most 
likely that Ms C fell victim to a scam and sent the payments herself thinking she was 
protecting her money by sending it to a safe account. First Direct said the payments 
required access to her online banking, which was done on her device and using her facial 
recognition ID, but Ms C says she does not know how her device or personal banking 
information could have been compromised. She explained that no one else has access to 
her phone or any of her security details, so she thinks she may have been hacked.
So, they considered her case as an authorised push payment scam, under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code. They refunded 50% of the payment to the unknown third party 
account but didnt refund the payments made to her own account with another business as 
the loss happened on the other account when they were sent on.
Ms C was unhappy with First Directs response, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended that First 
Directs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. They agreed that on balance it 
was more likely Ms C did authorise the payments  and most likely as the result of a scam. 
They said that the payment of £3,900 to a new payee could be considered under the CRM 
code, but not the others as they went to an account in her own name and so the loss took 
place there. They said that they could not conclude that Ms C had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payments were legitimate, but that as First Direct had accepted that they 
had not provided an effective warning the offer to refund the 50% of the £3,900 payment was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ms C did not agree and responded through her 
representative. In summary, they said:
Ms C had not made the payments, and had to flag them as fraudulent to First Direct.
She had not been able to provide any evidence of the phone being hacked because 
they were not experts in this field and therefore have no idea how a third party could 
have done this.
Ms C had never given First Direct her facial image so they were unclear as to how 
they could verify it was her.
Our investigators opinion on the matter did not change, so the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I will reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. My 
appraisal of the available evidence has led me to reach broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator  and for largely the same reasons. However, I will be referring to evidence that 
was not put to Ms C in the investigators opinion, so both parties will have a further 
opportunity to provide submissions and evidence prior to me reaching my final decision. But, 
I will explain the decision that I am thinking of reaching based on the current available 
evidence.
Due to the disagreement between First Direct and Ms C about what happened, I have 
reviewed the evidence carefully, including the evidence from the other bank that some of the 
money went through before going onto a third party. Having done so, I think it is most likely 
that Ms C authorised the payments herself. In summary, this is because:
The bank provided the technical evidence which shows that Ms Cs device  or 
certainly the same device that has been used for undisputed transactions  was used 
to make the payments. Ms Cs testimony is that she had this device with her, and no 
one else had access to it.
Ms Cs own testimony is that she received a text message and opened a link  
though provided no personal information at this time. She said she then received a 
phone call from someone purporting to be from First Direct  which seems most likely 
to have been from the scammer. She said she did not divulge any personal 
information on this call either. It seems unlikely that the scammer would have called 
her if they already had the means to make these transactions on her behalf  such as 
through malware or similar. So, it would be reasonable to conclude that opening the 
link in the text message was not enough to give someone access to her phone or account. Therefore, if she had not divulged information to the person who called her, 
it does not seem there was a point of compromise for her banking details or her 
phone.
According to the complaint notes from First Direct, the scam was first reported on 9 
December 2020. The note says she was contacted by fraudsters masking first direct 
number they mentioned that a number of fraudulent transactions had been attempted 
on her account and that she will need to move the money to a temporary safe 
[account.] [Ms C] did a number of internal transfers so all her money was in her first 
[direct] account and then made [a transfer to a third party account] and two [transfers] 
to her own [third party business] bank account she was further advised to move back 
her money from the [third party business] account to a account that had been set up 
for her. [Ms C] rang bank to check if the payment sent from [third party business 
account] had been received by [First Direct].
Further to this, the evidence from the third party business who Ms C holds an 
account with says that she completed a fraud report which said that she had been 
called earlier telling her to transfer money from her account to her other account and 
then onto the third party payee, but that she now knew this was fraud. Her testimony 
to the third party bank changed the next day when she said it was not her. 
I appreciate that Ms C denies saying this, and indeed told both businesses the 
following working day that she did not make the transactions  but it seems unlikely 
that two unrelated banks would have recorded the same erroneous information about 
the scam and how it unfolded. And I see no reason for a third party fraudster with 
access to both her bank accounts to report the scam.
The series of events as evidenced and described in part by Ms C also fit the 
hallmarks of a common type of scam  a safe account scam. I say this because they 
often do unfold by someone being tricked into following a link in a text message, 
before speaking to someone purporting to be from their bank who persuades them 
that their money is at risk and they need to move money to a safe account. Here, Ms 
C does tell us that she received this kind of text, and this kind of call, and her initial 
fraud reports suggest she was persuaded to send the money on to a safe account.
So, when considering all of this I do think on the available evidence I am likely to say that it 
is most likely that Ms C authorised these transactions herself.
Should First Direct refund any of the losses?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of their customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment.
In this case, First Direct were suitably persuaded that Ms C fell victim to an authorised push 
payment scam that they took the decision to consider the case under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code). As they have done so, and as I am minded to 
say I think the payments were made as the result of an authorised push payment scam too, I 
will also consider whether their offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstance of this 
complaint.
The CRM Code
First Direct are a signatory to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. The code does not cover 
payments made to an account in the customers name and control as the loss did not happen on the first account  so I have only considered the £3,900 to a third party here. Ms 
C would not be entitled to a full refund under the code if First Direct can fairly and reasonably 
demonstrate that Ms C has failed to meet the requisite level of care under one of more of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made;
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
In this case, First Direct has accepted it did not provide effective warnings about the 
payment. This is why they have offered to refund 50% of this payment. As this is not in 
dispute, I see no need to go over this here.
Did Ms C have a reasonable basis for believing she was sending the funds to a legitimate 
business?
It is for First Direct to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. The exception relevant to this 
case is where the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Given what I think most likely happened in this case on balance, I do not think that it is likely 
that Ms C did sufficient checks to ensure she was sending money to First Direct. On the 
available evidence I am likely to decide that she fell victim to a safe account scam  where 
someone called her purporting to be from First Direct and told her that her account was at 
risk and so she had to move her funds on. If this is what happened, I would have expected 
her to think it strange that she was asked to send money directly to a safe account in 
someone elses name. As she denies that this is what happened, I have no evidence to 
suggest she was provided with a compelling reason for this. If this is what happened, she 
was also asked to send some of the funds to her own bank account with the third party 
business, from where she sent it on to the scammer. I would expect this to give someone 
cause for concern if they thought they were dealing with their own bank, who had set up a 
safe account. Again, I have no evidence that the scammer provided a compelling reason for 
why this had to be done. So, on the evidence that I have I am likely to say that I think it was  
fair and reasonable for First Direct to conclude that Ms C did not have a reasonable basis for 
belief here  and so it would be fair to deduct 50% of the payment.
Should First Direct have done more to protect Ms C?
In addition to their responsibilities under the CRM code, when Ms C made the payments 
First Direct should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
and out of character transactions or other signs that might indicate that Ms C was at risk of 
fraud or financial harm (amongst other things).
Ive considered whether any of the payments should have flagged as unusual or out of 
character  and I am not minded to say that they ought to have. Whilst the first payment was 
not for an inconsequential amount, I do not consider a payment of £3,900 unusual enough 
that it ought reasonably to have put First Direct on alert that Ms C was at risk of fraud or 
financial harm such that further action would be warranted. However, there was a transfer 
into her account just before hand of £4,500 from another First Direct account, and safe 
account scams often see customers move money from their savings into their current 
account (or similar) and then on to a scam account. So I have considered whether this movement, and the subsequent payments should have given First Direct cause for concern.
I am not clear whether the transfer in cleared any other accounts she had internally  it 
appears they did not totally as there were a further two internal transfers. But there was still 
a significant sum remaining in Ms Cs account after the £3,900 payment was made to the 
scammer  over £1,000. So, I dont think that at this point, First Direct ought to have 
recognised the risk of the scam. The subsequent payments of £1450 and £105.59 went to 
another account in her own name, held with another business. I think this means that First 
Direct may not have recognised them as linked to the first scam payment  and so I dont 
think they ought to have flagged as unusual or out of character and so I do not think they 
could have done more to stop the scam here.
Recovery of funds
I have also considered whether First Direct could have done more to recover the money 
once they had been alerted to the fraud or scam. We would expect a business to take 
reasonable steps to try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to. First Direct did 
try to recover the funds sent from Ms Cs account to the third-party account  and were able 
to evidence they contacted the receiving bank. They were unable to recover any funds from 
this bank  who confirmed under a week later that no funds had remained in the account at 
the point First Direct contacted them. What remains unclear is the exact timing of the 
message from First Direct to the receiving bank  and so I request that this detail is provided 
by First Direct. If there was any delay in reporting this to the receiving bank and funds 
remained at the time they should have reported it, it is likely I will have to consider whether 
any further refund is due.
My provisional decision
On the available evidence, my provisional decision is that I think First Directs offer was fair,
and as this has been paid already I would not be asking them to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs representative responded on her behalf. In summary, they said: 
They wanted this case to be considered along side the case that has concluded 
against the other business Ms C had a personal account with (the one where one of 
the payments was sent). The other business had not refunded any of the loss  and 
they spoke more about specifics of that complaint. 
Ms C maintains she never clicked on any link, never moved any money. Her only 
attempt was to contact the two banks to advise this was happening. No one would 
have access to Ms Cs phone other than herself. 
I have thought about these points, and they have not changed my thinking as outlined in my 
provisional decision. On the first point about the other business  this complaint has been 
decided by way of a final decision issued by another ombudsman so this case is now closed. 
I appreciate Ms C feels there is some disparity between the two cases, but as I outlined in 
my provisional decision I have considered First Directs offer to reimburse 50% of the 
payment to an external account based on the rules outlined in the CRM code, and assessed 
that it was fair in the circumstances. My role is to decide this case on the specifics of what 
happened here  and I have taken into account the evidence on the other complaint but I am 
bound to decide this case on its own merits. 
With regard to the fact Ms C maintains she didnt click on any link or move any money  I 
have dealt with this extensively in my consideration of this case and in the provisional decision. I am afraid my conclusion remains the same, for the reasons I outlined in my 
provisional decision. 
First Direct did not provide any comments on the provisional decision itself. I asked First 
Direct to evidence whether they had reported the scam to the receiving bank in a suitably 
timely manner. They have provided evidence that the notification went to the receiving bank 
around the day after I would have expected them to. But, having spoken to the receiving 
bank, the funds from Ms Cs transfer, as well as other victims, had been quickly moved on 
and the account had been blocked before First Direct even got in touch. So I do think they 
could have moved with more haste to recover the funds, but I cannot say that it would have 
made a difference here. 
My final decision
I think that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct made a fair offer, and as they have 
already paid this to Ms C I require them to do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman