DRN-3071792
The complaint
Mr M says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit in August 2015. It was for £6,000 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £225.20 and the total repayable was £10,809.60.
Mr M says the lender failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said UK Credits checks
were not proportionate, and the lender had not made a fair lending decision.
UK Credit disagreed saying, in summary, the checks were sufficient and showed the loan to
be affordable. It said that Mr M had enough disposable income to make the repayments (as
well as to cover any over limit fees on other accounts). It acknowledged some recent late
payments but said they seemed to be one-offs and generally Mr Ms credit was well
managed. It said there was no evidence Mr M was using payday loans at the time of his
application and there was no way of knowing why Mr M was settling his CCJ at the rate he
was.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different 
conclusion to the investigator and so issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to let me have any further comments of 
evidence by 25 September 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision 
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this using a third-party income verification tool. It asked
about his monthly living costs and it checked his credit file to understand his credit history
and existing debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was home
improvements. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Mr M had sufficient
monthly disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
But I dont think that these checks were proportionate. Mr M was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. He was entering into a long-term commitment
and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that UK
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about
Mr Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I cant see it took any steps to
verify his declared expenses. And it knew from the credit check it completed he had recently
missed payments on a number of accounts and was over his limit on two credit cards. So, in
the round, I think it would have been proportionate for UK Credit to independently check the
actual state of Mr Ms finances before agreeing the loan.
But this doesnt mean Mr Ms complaint should automatically be upheld. It means I need to
look at what proportionate checks would most likely have shown UK Credit and consider if it
ought to have realised that there was a risk Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Mr M hasnt been able to provide copies of his bank statements from the time. He has sent
in his full credit file. However I cant fairly conclude from this that better checks would have
shown UK Credit the loan was unaffordable for Mr M. It shows the same information about
Mr Ms credit commitments and recent missed payments that the lender obtained from its
check, as well as the CCJ registered in 2012. But it doesnt show a significant level of
indebtedness or adverse data at the date of this loan application.
And without bank statements I am unable to check if Mr Ms actual finances matched the
figures he declared. So I cannot reasonably question UK Credits assumptions about
Mr Ms disposable income.
This means with the available evidence I cant fairly conclude better checks would have
indicated this loan was unaffordable for Mr M. I know Mr M took out a number of payday
loans later in 2015 and went on to have significant financial difficulties in the following years.
I am sorry he has experienced these difficulties. But without more complete evidence of his
financial position at the time that shows there was a high risk this loan wouldnt have been
sustainably affordable, I cant fairly conclude UK Credit was wrong to lend to Mr M in August
2015.
It follows I will not be instructing UK Credit to take any action.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. In my provisional decision I set out in detail what UK Credit was 
required to do before lending and therefore the questions my review was looking to answer. 
UK Credit provided no further information. 
Mr M sent in his bank statements from the months prior to his application so I have now 
been able to assess what better checks would most likely have shown UK Credit. I have 
reviewed the statements carefully, but they do not change the outcome of this complaint.
They show that the income Mr M had declared was accurate, as was the mortgage payment 
and I havent found any significant discrepancies versus the living costs he declared. And 
there are no signs that Mr M was having problems managing his money at this time  such 
as a reliance on payday loans, frequent gambling transactions, spending a significant 
proportion of his income on existing credit commitments or a reliance on an overdraft. The 
bank account doesnt seem to have had an overdraft facility and throughout each month it 
typically carried a daily credit balance. I know Mr M will be frustrated and disappointed, but 
on this basis I cant fairly conclude that better checks ought to have led to a different lending 
decision. 
My provisional findings differed from the investigator as I didnt think Mr Ms credit file 
showed a level of indebtedness or adverse data such that it was irresponsible for UK Credit 
to lend. Mr M had confirmed on the application call that there was one final repayment of £25 
remaining to settle the 2012 CCJ and the credit check showed his total indebtedness stood 
at £3,795. Given the nature of this type of lending I would expect there to be some adverse information on an applicants credit file  and it wasnt extensive in this case at the time of 
this loan application. 
It follows I dont think UK Credit was wrong to lend to Mr M.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman