DRN-1567697
complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid his travel insurance claim. 
background
Mr R had a trip booked for June 2015. However, he wasnt able to travel because he was 
unwell. He cancelled his trip and called Aviva to advise them of this. Aviva asked Mr R to 
provide some further information. Mr R did this, but says he didnt hear back from Aviva. 
In 2019, Mr R complained to Aviva that it hadnt paid his claim. Aviva said it had asked him 
to provide evidence that hed cancelled his trip, but it hadnt received this information. It said 
it hadnt been able to progress his claim without this. Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr R 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva had made it 
clear it needed evidence that the trip had been cancelled before the claim could progress. 
She thought it was reasonable for Aviva to require this evidence before it could accept Mr 
Rs claim. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As our investigator has explained, the policy says that unused travel costs will be covered if 
the insured falls ill and cancels their trip. It also says that claims must be supported by 
documentary evidence that the insured has been unable to obtain a refund from their travel 
provider.
Mr R told Aviva on 26 June 2015 that hed cancelled his trip. Aviva wrote to him the same 
day to ask for some information, including the cancellation invoice. The letter confirmed this 
should show that the booking has been cancelled, and what refund (if any) was given. 
Mr R provided Aviva with some information from his GP, and confirmation that his trip had 
been booked - but didnt provide evidence of the cancellation. 
When Aviva was assessing the claim, it noticed it hadnt received the cancellation invoice. I 
see that it tried calling Mr B on 28 October 2015 to request this, but couldnt reach him. It 
therefore emailed him later that day to let him know it needed the cancellation invoice to 
progress his claim. 
The following day, Mr R called Aviva and said it should have asked for the cancellation 
invoice initially. Aviva said it had done, and since it needed this evidence to progress the 
claim, it would wait for him to provide this before doing anything further. Mr R didnt provide Aviva with the cancellation invoice. He next contacted it in 2019, and 
said he couldnt get this evidence from the travel provider because of the time that had 
passed since the cancellation. 
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr R couldnt get the necessary evidence from his travel provider 
in 2019, Im satisfied that Aviva made Mr R at the time of his claim that it needed the 
cancellation invoice in order to progress the matter. I think it was reasonable of Aviva to 
request this information before accepting Mr Rs claim, and this was in line with its policy 
terms.
I therefore dont find that Aviva has done anything wrong here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman