DRN-2856948
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
On 12 May 2021, I issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs complaint. In this, I explained 
why, based on what I had seen so far, I was intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted to 
give both parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision 
below and it forms part of this final decision;
What happened
Mr H and his partner Ms L were in the process of purchasing a property. On 10 October 
2019, the day of exchange, Mr H was unexpectedly asked to pay the outstanding balance, 
including a substantial deposit, to their solicitor.
As he was away from home, he requested the solicitors bank account number and sort code 
over the phone. When he arrived at a branch of Barclays to make the payment he still hadnt 
received the bank details  so he sent an email to remind the solicitor.
The genuine solicitor responded but, unfortunately for Mr H, so did a fraudster just a minute 
or so later. The fraudsters email contained account details, as expected, but the details 
werent those of the solicitor. Mr H, having only seen the fraudsters email, said he checked it 
had come from the solicitors email address and was happy that it had. The account Mr H 
was instructed to pay wasnt in the name of the firm of solicitors Mr H was expecting to pay. 
And, a few minutes later, a further email from the fraudsters was received explaining the 
account belonged to an accounting firm who provide accounting and auditing services for 
the solicitors.
As Mr H had only seen the fraudsters emails he instructed the bank to make a £52,000 
CHAPS payment using the bank account details they provided. He doesnt recall exactly 
what, if anything, Barclays asked about the payment, but does remember reading a 
statement from a computer screen.
Later that day the solicitor reported not having received the payment. Mr H contacted 
Barclays, as well as the solicitors, to report what had happened. The solicitors denied 
responsibility and Mr H hasnt heard from them since. Barclays said theyd contact the bank 
the money was sent to. Despite chasing Barclays, visiting a branch on multiple occasions 
and raising a complaint about the receiving bank, weeks went by without any news. It wasnt 
until 19 November 2019 that Mr H was told no money was left to be recovered. Mr H 
complained about Barclays the same day.
Barclays, in response to the complaint, said it had considered and rejected the claim under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). It said Mr H had been questioned in the 
branch about the purpose of the transaction and how the account details had been obtained. 
It felt sufficient warnings had been provided to Mr H and therefore it did not bear 
responsibility for the loss.
It did, however, accept there had been failings in the service it provided and offered £200 
compensation to reflect this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think the warnings provided by 
branch staff were clear, specific or impactful. In addition, she felt Mr H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the instruction he received was genuine, so Barclays were liable under 
the provisions of the CRM Code. In any case, she felt Barclays ought to have done more to 
intervene and stop the payment, given its size and how out of character it was for him. She 
also recognised the impact Barclays failure to prevent the scam had on Mr H and 
recommended a total of £400 in compensation to reflect this.
Barclays disagreed and provided a more detailed statement from the member of staff, which 
it said showed the correct process had been followed. And, after reviewing the first 
fraudulent email Mr H had received, felt there were a number of issues which ought to have 
alerted him to the fact the instructions werent genuine:
-The fraudulent email contained spelling and grammatical errors.
-It didnt contain the logo of the solicitors firm, a reference number or contact details.
-The account details were different to the account Mr H paid previously and 
the account had a different name.
-The genuine and fraudulent emails were sent a minute apart and would have 
appeared alongside each other. Mr H ought to have reviewed both emails 
before making the payment.
Consequently, Barclays felt Mr H hadnt done enough due diligence or made relevant checks 
before proceeding with the payment.
Our investigator, in response, pointed out that the email had come from the solicitors 
genuine email address. She agreed there were some differences between the fraudulent 
and genuine email but not enough to give Mr H cause for concern. She also disputed that Mr 
H had paid the solicitors before.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays say that Mr H ignored 
an effective warning and made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payee was the person they were expecting to pay.
I am also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money Mr 
H lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
Having recognised this payment was unusual and out of character, Barclays 
should have gone further than it did to question the payment. If it had done so, I 
am satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss would have been 
prevented.
In the circumstances, therefore, Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund 
the money Mr H lost.
Mr H has been deprived of the funds and the opportunity to purchase the 
property. Its clear he would have used the funds as a deposit for the property 
had the scam not happened. So, I think its fair and reasonable that he should 
be awarded 8% interest from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement.
Because Barclays failed to prevent the loss, Mr H has paid legal costs for which 
hes received no benefit and lost out on a bonus from the Help to Buy ISA 
scheme. I think its fair and reasonable Barclays should reimburse these losses 
too.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was whom he was expecting 
to pay. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not 
persuaded that Mr H failed to take the requisite level of care required for Barclays to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met, and Ill explain why.
Barclays provided warnings in the form of a statement (which it said staff asked Mr H to read 
and confirm he understood) and, according to their adviser, a short conversation they had 
with Mr H. The statement, among other things, says: We recommend you check new payee 
details with someone you trust in person, before making a payment. Barclays also says their 
adviser asked if the customer had obtained the details directly from the solicitor, before 
explaining to Mr H that the reason why we ask is due to fraudulent details or transactions of 
this nature/property.
Confirming account details in person or over the phone with the sender is almost always 
sufficient to prevent this type of scam. So, its crucial that the importance and relevance of 
doing this is explained to a customer (as well as the consequences of not doing it).
The written statement, though recommending checking account details in person, had a 
broad scope. It also didnt explain the relevance of checking the account details or what the 
consequences of not doing it were. And, advising a customer to check account details in 
person could reasonably be taken to mean face to face  which would normally be an
impractical step in the context of this type of scam. Most importantly, the warning fails to 
advise the customer to call the person they are expecting to pay.
And, the circumstances of the scam made even the more relevant parts of the statement 
less effective. Mr H hadnt received the payment request unexpectedly, hed requested the payment details. Neither would he have considered the account details to be new  hed 
contacted the solicitor that day because he didnt have a copy of those details and assumed 
the ones he received were the solicitors existing details.
Though the advisers question is more relevant to this particular scenario, it wasnt very 
effective. Presumably the adviser intended directly to mean in person, or over the phone, 
but it could equally mean by email  the way in which the account details had been received. 
Theres also no suggestion the adviser asked how the account details had, in fact, been 
obtained. And, while the adviser provides an explanation for the question being asked, they 
dont explain how checking details with the solicitor directly would prevent fraud or what the 
risk was. Overall, neither the statement nor the advisers questions really brought to life what 
a scam of this nature looks like  how a fraudster can pose as a solicitor and send emails 
from their email address or something which looks very similar.
Its important to note that these warnings were given in circumstances that were fortuitous 
for the fraudster. Mr H had spoken to the solicitor that day, had asked for the account details 
and didnt know the ones he received were new or different. So, it was particularly important 
for any warning to bring alive the scam, how it works and how it could be prevented.
Of course, it wouldnt be practical for branch staff to do this for every conceivable scam, but 
the advisers questions show that the particular risk had been correctly identified here, yet 
the warnings failed to do this.
So, I dont think the warnings given were impactful nor went far enough to be effective. And, 
I dont think Mr H acted unreasonably by proceeding with the payment after hearing them.
Im also satisfied Barclays has not shown that Mr H lacked a reasonable basis of belief.
Importantly, Mr H was expecting to receive an email from his solicitor, having requested their 
account details twice that day. The arrival of just such an email was unlikely to have caused 
any concern. In fact, it appears to have come as some relief that the email had arrived  as 
Mr H had to make the payment that day and was waiting at the branch to do so.
While the fraudulent email, in hindsight, wasnt perfectly written nor entirely consistent with 
the format of the genuine solicitor, it wasnt so poorly written or unusual that it ought to have 
reasonably caused Mr H to question whether it was genuine, particularly given that it was an 
email he was expecting.
And, I havent seen anything to show (and I dont agree) the fraudulent and genuine emails 
would have necessarily appeared alongside each other, as Barclays suggests. Its entirely 
plausible that Mr H would have just seen the more recent emails. Neither do I find it 
unreasonable Mr H didnt check his inbox for other emails before proceeding  hed have no 
reason to do so.
I do note that Mr H recognised the possibility that an email could be fraudulent and says he 
copied and pasted the email address to ensure that it was correct. I can understand why, 
without detailed knowledge of how these scams work, this convinced him that the instruction 
was genuine, even if his actions werent, in fact, enough to prevent the scam.
The second fraudulent email, received a couple of minutes after the first one, provided an 
explanation as to why the account name was different. Though odd that such an explanation 
wasnt provided in the first email and that a second email was sent unprompted, I can 
understand why the explanation didnt seem unreasonable to Mr H.Given that the email (though not perfectly written) was not only expected, but requested, and 
Mr H, in any case, took steps to verify its authenticity, Im satisfied he had a reasonable 
basis for believing the instruction he received was genuine.
In addition, Barclays ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. The branch 
advisor appears to have recognised that this payment was unusual for Mr H, as well as the 
risk associated with it, but (as Ive already set out) failed to adequately explain that risk or 
ask appropriate questions  such as how the account details had been obtained.
Im satisfied that a few further questions by branch staff, along the lines Ive set out would 
have reasonably led to Mr H contacting the solicitor by phone to check the account details. 
Had that happened, the scam would have come to light and Mr Hs loss would have been 
prevented.
The relevance of this finding is that Barclays ought to have prevented the loss, rather than 
just reimbursed Mr H under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows Barclays should pay 
Mr H interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund Mr H under 
the CRM Code. And, Barclays should also reimburse losses that Mr H has suffered as a 
direct result of their failure to prevent that loss. In this case, Mr H was unable to continue 
with the purchase of the house. Im satisfied from the completion statement provided that Mr 
H had already paid the solicitors £350 which, because the house sale fell through, he 
received no benefit from. But, Ive also taken into account that after the sale fell through, Mr 
H says he received a refund from the solicitor of £177.46, so his loss is £172.53. Its also fair 
and reasonable that Barclays should refund the £25 payment fee, which also wouldnt have 
been incurred had the transaction been prevented.
The completion statement lists a bonus obtained from the government Help to Buy ISA 
scheme. I can also see a corresponding amount (four times the listed bonus) credited Mr Hs 
account ten days before the date of the scam, which satisfies me that the bonus was due to 
Mr H. Had the scam not happened, its very likely the house sale would have proceeded 
and, consequently, Mr H would have received the bonus. Im mindful that Im asking 
Barclays to pay the bonus in cash, something which wouldnt be allowed under the scheme. 
But, as the Help to Buy ISA is no longer available, Mr H is currently at an advanced stage of 
purchasing a property without the assistance of an ISA bonus (so wouldnt have time to 
accrue a similar benefit using a different ISA scheme) and Barclays would not be able to 
restore Mr Hs position, Im satisfied Barclays should pay the lost bonus.
The entire experience has clearly been very distressing for Mr H. He says both he and Ms L 
have been suffering from depression since the scam took place. They were unable to go 
through with the house purchase and have been without a significant amount of money for 
quite some time.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than Barclays that have ultimately caused that loss, 
but Barclays, at least, should have refunded the loss under the provisions of the CRM Code 
and, Im persuaded, prevented the scam altogether. Had it done so, much of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr H would have been avoided.
Barclays accept there were service failings and it took longer than it ought to have done to 
deal with the complaint but, for the reasons outlined, I think they should pay a total of £400 in 
compensation.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons outlined above, Ive provisionally decided it is fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC  and I therefore require the bank to 
pay Mr H:
-£52,000
-The payment fee of £25
-The Help to Buy ISA bonus Mr H would have received - £1,811.14
-Legal costs totalling £172.53
-A total of £400 compensation for the material distress and inconvenience Mr H 
has experienced
-Interest at 8% on the amount of the transaction, the payment fee and legal 
costs from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but Barclays did not. In summary, it said:
- As the payment request had come unexpectedly, Mr H ought to have checked all 
three emails he received, rather than just the last two.
- Had all three emails been opened and reviewed, Mr H would have seen the genuine 
solicitors suggestion he call to confirm the account details. He would have also been 
able to compare the fraudulent and genuine emails, which would have likely led to 
the scam being uncovered.
- Mr H failed to contact the genuine solicitor to find out why the account he was being 
asked to pay was not in their name.
- It remains of the opinion that the fraudulent emails were sufficiently different to the 
genuine emails that Mr H ought to have realised they hadnt come from the solicitor.
Consequently, Barclays maintained that Mr H hadnt carried out sufficient due diligence 
before making the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that my provisional decision already explains why I think Mr H had a reasonable 
basis of belief in making the payment, despite the differences between the genuine and 
fraudulent emails. Ive also already addressed why it was reasonable for him to accept the 
explanation for the account name being different, rather than contact the solicitor. So, I wont 
be commenting on those points further. 
In relation to the other points raised in response to my provisional decision, its first important 
to say that the payment request was only unexpected in the sense that Mr H hadnt realised 
the balance would be due that day. To be clear, the balance was due that day and the 
genuine solicitor had requested the payment during a phone call that morning. Mr H 
requested the account details  first during that phone call and later by email. So, at the 
point the payment was made, he was expecting to receive the account details and make the 
payment.
Theres also no suggestion that Mr H saw all three emails and only chose to open two. I 
agree with Barclays that events might have unfolded differently had he read the genuine 
email, but Im persuaded he didnt. The question Ive had to consider is whether Mr H acted 
unreasonably by not checking whether a third email had been received. And, as Mr H would 
have had no reason to think that an earlier email had been received, I cant agree that he 
acted unreasonably by not looking for one. Ive considered the further points raised by Barclays, but my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC  and I therefore require the bank to pay Mr H:
- £52,000
- The payment fee of £25
- The Help to Buy ISA bonus Mr H would have received - £1,811.14
- Legal costs totalling £172.53
- A total of £400 compensation for the material distress and inconvenience Mr H has 
experienced
- Interest at 8% on the amount of the transaction, the payment fee and legal costs from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman