DRN-3544353
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains about what happened when it wrote a cheque from the
estates account at HSBC UK Bank Plc to the personal account of Mr W, the executor. Mr W
says the cheque wasnt honoured by HSBC and he wanted compensation for this.
What happened
Mr W tells us he is both the executor of the estate of the late Mrs T, and a beneficiary of her
will. He said that, acting in his capacity as executor, he wrote a cheque from the estates
account, payable to his own account at a different bank. But the money from the cheque was
removed from his personal account almost as soon as it arrived. Mr W said that HSBC made
no attempt to contact him, and it was several days before he could be reassured that he
hadnt been scammed. Mr W wanted compensation for the expenses he had incurred and
also for severe stress.
HSBC said it did try to contact Mr W, but he wouldnt take its call. When he contacted the
branch it then tried to have the cheque cleared, but this was outside of its usual process for
validating cheques, there was some misunderstanding, and it didnt work. HSBC told us that
it then sent this payment electronically, with no charge to the estate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said HSBC had followed
its own security procedures here, and our service wouldnt tell HSBC to change those.
Mr W wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr W has indicated that he may have further representations he wishes to make 
before I reach my final view. So Ive taken the unusual step of setting out my current 
views in the form of a provisional decision. I wanted Mr W to be fully aware of my 
current thinking in deciding whether, and if so how, he wishes to comment further.
I would like to start by setting out some of the rules governing our service, which form 
the background to this case.
HSBCs customer here, and the complainant in this case, is the estate of Mrs T. Mr 
W can bring this complaint to our service, because he is a person currently 
authorised to act for the estate. However, he brings this complaint in his role as 
executor, not in his personal capacity. For the avoidance of doubt, the rules of our 
service dont allow us to consider a complaint from Mr W, in his own right, about what 
HSBC has done in this case.
Because this complaint is brought by the estate, that impacts on what our service can 
do.
Our service can only award compensation to the complainant, for losses they have 
suffered. We cant make any direct award to a third party. And we cant make awards 
to the complainant, based solely on the effect on other parties.
And in this case, as the complainant is the estate. So that means I cant make any 
award of compensation directly to Mr W. I also cannot award the estate 
compensation for things that Mr W, not the estate, may have suffered, like the 
extreme stress he has referred to. Nor can I compensate the estate for the time Mr W 
may have spent resolving problems.
Because this is a restriction actually set out in the underpinning law which allows me 
to grant awards, there is nothing I can do to change this position. No one at our 
service can. 
I am only able to compensate the estate. So if Mr W can show that the estate itself 
has paid any of the costs he refers to, then I could consider whether those costs 
should be refunded by HSBC. But whatever my final decision on this complaint may 
be, I cannot meet Mr Ws expectations on compensation for stress. Nor can I 
compensate him for lost time.
As Im writing to Mr W in this way, I should also set out my current view on this 
complaint. HSBC has told us that it now faces a considerable amount of attempted 
fraud on cheques. With this in mind, it has put verification procedures in place, to 
contact the holder of the account a cheque is drawn on. HSBC says it attempted to 
contact Mr W, as the person authorised to act on this account, but he didnt want to 
take its call.
Because Mr W has referred to receiving a high number of calls that asked for security 
information (which Id expect HSBC to do) I think its likely that HSBC has tried to get 
in touch with him.
Mr W has explained that he is concerned about potential scam calls, and doesnt 
wish to give out any personal information before he can be confident that he has 
verified who the caller is. I understand why Mr W is reluctant to take such calls, but I 
dont think that HSBC is wrong to have this verification system in place. I know HSBC 
then tried to verify this cheque a different way, and its unfortunate that this didnt 
work. But I dont think HSBC is then wrong to decide not to honour a cheque, when 
its not been able to successfully verify that the cheque is genuine. Its erring on the 
side of caution when it does so. So I dont currently think HSBC made a mistake 
when it would not honour a cheque for a large sum, which it hadnt been able to 
verify with Mr W.
I understand that Mr W has been able to arrange an electronic transfer instead, and 
that HSBC waived any fee for this. Mr W said that HSBC didnt volunteer this, he had 
to insist. But whether HSBC did this at Mr Ws suggestion or not is, I think, 
unfortunately more of an issue to do with the impact on Mr W (which I cannot take 
into account here) than an issue to do with the impact on the estate.
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint. Either side 
can comment further on the above, and my view on this case may change as a result 
of this.However, as Ive explained, whatever my view, I will remain constrained by the legal
restrictions on awards our service can make.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. HSBC said it had nothing to add. Mr W replied with further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said he was responsible for this high value estate, including making sure it was held 
securely. He feels strongly that he is required to check the identity of people who were 
calling him, to rebuff attempted scams. 
Mr W has commented in detail on our investigators earlier findings. I thank him for the detail 
and clarifications he has offered us. However, I wont comment directly on our investigators 
findings here. Thats because I carry out a complete review of a complaint when it reaches 
me, and Im not bound by those findings, or any views expressed by our investigator. So Ive 
considered Mr Ws comments as they relate to the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
I note that Mr W accepts he did receive a call about a cheque. He expressed great concern 
about whether this could be a scam, and has repeatedly challenged what he considers to be 
HSBCs failure to appropriately identify itself when it calls him. He also challenged what 
HSBC did to clear this cheque, and then to resolve issues when the money was returned.
Mr W has set out for me what he considered to be a number of service failings by HSBC. I 
said in my provisional decision that I did think that HSBC had tried to get in touch with Mr W 
to clear the cheque. I understand he accepts someone called, but he did not feel reassured 
about the identity of that person. However, as I said then, I dont think that means that HSBC 
is wrong to have this verification system in place. 
I appreciate that Mr W didnt speak to anyone from the branch on that day. But I do still think 
that the branch attempted to confirm the cheque itself, as they told us. I understand Mr W is 
well known to the branch, so they may have felt able to do this without speaking directly to 
him. I have seen evidence that staff at the branch did try to assist, although I understand this 
wasnt successful.
I still dont think that HSBC made a mistake when it refused to honour this cheque. Mr W 
challenged what HSBC did after this, which he said represented extremely poor service 
which affected him personally. He thought HSBC should have been proactive about getting 
in touch with him, and he thought it could easily have allowed the cheque to be represented, 
instead of transferring the money electronically.
But what is most important for the purposes of this decision, is that Mr W noted that I had 
decided the complainant is the estate. 
Mr W said that the sufferer was himself and it was him who had issued the complaint. He 
said he was also the executor, but he said it was very clear that it was himself personally 
that had suffered the poor service. He still felt that HSBC conducted itself in a very poor 
manner and should be held responsible for the lamentable events listed within the complaint.Our service has always treated this complaint as being made by the estate. And thats right. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I remain of the view that our service would not be able to 
consider this complaint at all if it had been brought by Mr W in his personal capacity. 
Mr W has also been very clear that this complaint hasnt impacted the estate. He says that 
hes the one who has suffered. 
I set out in my provisional decision that our service simply has no powers to award 
compensation for the impact of HSBCs service on Mr W. That remains the case. So Im just 
not able to award compensation for any impact this complaint had on Mr W personally. Im 
sorry if that hasnt been clear to Mr W before my provisional decision.
For all the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman