DRN-3614497
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund four disputed transactions from his 
account.  
What happened
Mr B says that four transactions were made with a third-party company using his account 
details. The transactions are well known to both parties, so I wont list them here.
Mr B reported the transactions to Monzo on 17 June 2021. Monzo blocked Mr Bs card to 
prevent any further transactions and advised Mr B it would look into them. Following its 
investigation Monzo informed Mr B that it would not be refunding the transactions for the 
following reasons:
Mr B had told them he had shared his card details with a friend by entering them onto 
his friends phone to pay for a taxi. 
Monzo explained that as Mr B had shared his card details, so these were not 
fraudulent transactions and Mr B had authorised them. 
Mr B should pursue this as a civil matter between himself and his friend. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and 
explained to Monzo that Mr B had not authorised the transactions in question and 
recommended Monzo refund the disputed transactions made. In particular the adjudicator 
explained:
Mr B had used his friends device to enter his card details, he hadnt shared his 
details directly with his friend.
There is no evidence to show Mr B authorised the subsequent transactions.
As the transactions in question involved credit, Mr B cant be held liable for any 
unauthorised transaction on the account.
Monzo didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, it explained:
Mr B may not have intentionally shared his details with his friend, but by entering 
onto his friends app and device he has given the fast-food company a continuous 
payment authority to bill his Monzo account.
Mr B consented to his card details being added to the third-party companys online 
account which was not his own, and he wouldve been aware his details would be 
stored. 
The account had been used to make other transactions on different dates and this 
did not support Mr Bs account of events. 
Monzo also clarified the transactions did not involve any credit. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion on Mr Bs case. So, the case has 
been referred to me  an ombudsman - for a decision. 
I looked at Mr Bs case and issued by provisional decision on 5 July 2022. I explained I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint and the reasons why. Mr B didnt accept my 
provisional decision. Mr B said that he entered his details onto his friends phone himself. Mr 
B says he is unaware of how the third-party companys online system works. Mr B explained 
this matter has had a negative impact on his mental health.    
Monzo replied to the provisional decision, explaining it had nothing further to add and it 
agreed with my review.
As both sides have responded to my provisional decision, I will now issue my final decision 
on the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the further points raised by both Mr B  having done so Im not 
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was unaware his details would be saved on his friends phone as he does not 
know how the online system works for the third-party company he was using. Monzo has 
provided a copy of Mr Bs statements for his account. Looking at these statements I can see 
there are a number of transactions using this third party company in the months leading up 
to the disputed transactions. I think this shows Mr B was familiar with the online system he 
was using and how it would store his details.
I am sorry to learn of the impact this complaint has had on Mr B  in particular on his mental 
health. I hope this decision, alongside my provisional decision which I have included below, 
will go some way in helping him  understand why we are unable to ask Monzo to refund the 
transactions and will help him bring this matter to a close.
Provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to a different overall conclusion. I
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope my reasoning below
highlights why I am unable to uphold his complaint.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mr
B is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
So, I think the fundamental question here is whether Monzo has acted fairly in concluding Mr
B did authorise the disputed transactions.
From what Ive seen, I am persuaded Mr B has authorised these transactions. When Mr B
reported the disputed transactions to Monzo he explained he had entered his card details
onto his friends phone to pay for a taxi. As Mr Bs card details were stored in his friends app,
Mr B says his friend was able to use his card details to make additional purchases. I think Mr
Bs decision to enter his card details onto his friends device provided his friend with the
necessary authority to carry out further transactions using this payment method.I think its also worth highlighting that Mr B initially told our service he wasnt sure who
carried out the transactions and that they were fraudulent. However, he later changed this
and in line with the records from Monzo, Mr B explained he had entered his card details onto
a friends device. Mr B hasnt explained why he used his friends device to place an order.
Monzos internal notes seem to suggest Mr B may have lost his phone a few days before
these transactions took place. In any event Mr B wouldve been able to log in to his own 
third-party company online account on his friends device to place an order. This wouldve 
helped safeguard his card details.
Mr B by his own admission states he shouldve cleared his details from his friends phone,
which highlights he was aware his card details wouldve been stored and accessible to his
friend. In my view, Mr B provided his friend with authority by entering his card details onto his
device. As highlighted by Mr B, it was for him to then take action to break the authority he
had provided, by deleting his details. As Mr B did not take this action, I think its fair to say Mr
B has given authority for these transactions.
I also have to add weight to Monzos argument that the same third-party company account 
was used to carry out transactions on Mr Bs card at other times  most notably on 16 April 
2021 and 15 May 2021. These transactions were carried out some time before the four 
transactions which are disputed, and I cant see any evidence to suggest they were queried 
by Mr B at the time.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr B authorised the disputed
withdrawals. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman