DRN-1868756
Complaint
Miss S has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and shes struggling to repay it.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss S with a loan for £1,000.00 in March 2016. This loan had an 
APR of 65.9% and was due to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of £60.02, which meant 
the total amount to be repaid was £1,800.60. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss S and Likely Loans had told us. And she 
thought Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss S complaint be upheld. Miss S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss S could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss S application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss S could 
to comfortably make the low monthly repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, 
Miss S has said she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss S and Likely Loans have said. 
I have to start by saying that Miss S was borrowing a relatively low amount and was 
committing to a low monthly payment. So, in these circumstances, a lighter touch 
assessment might have been reasonable and proportionate as long as the information 
obtained was consistent and plausible. Likely Loans credit searches showed that Miss S 
debt total at the time of the application was reasonable in comparison to her declared 
income and appeared to be reasonably managed. And the payments required were a small 
portion of Miss S declared income. 
I accept that Likely Loans searches may not have picked up everything about Miss S 
circumstances. But having looked at the copy of Miss S full credit file, which she provided us 
with, Im satisfied that there werent any major problems at the time the loan was provided. 
Miss S did go on to miss payments on other accounts and she did end up defaulting on 
some of them. But this all happened well after this loan was provided. And I dont think that 
this in itself means Miss S shouldnt have been provided with this loan.
I accept that Miss S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had carried out further checks  such as obtaining bank statements  it might 
have reached a different outcome. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what had already been gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss S is suggesting. As 
this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman