DRN-2801983
The complaint
 Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Birch Independent to transfer 
benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension. 
At the time, Birch Independent were an appointed representative of Sesame Limited, so they 
are responsible for answering this complaint. Ill refer to Sesame throughout my decision for 
ease of reading. 
What happened
 Mr S was advised by Sesame to transfer his deferred benefits from his DB pension to a 
stakeholder pension in late 2004 or early 2005. A fact find was completed in October 2004.
At the time he was 34, married and had a small child.  He earned £30,000 per year with a 
disposable income of £700 per month. He held £3,500 in emergency savings, but he had no 
other investments or pension provisions. He had an outstanding mortgage of around 
£146,000. His attitude to risk was balanced.
A suitability report shows the transfer was recommended for the following reasons:
The investment return required in the stakeholder pension to match the DB scheme 
benefits at the age of 60 -known as the critical yield-was 7.8%. The report said there 
was a good chance Mr S could exceed his retirement benefits in the DB scheme by 
transferring given his attitude to risk and long term to retirement.
By transferring, Mr Ss three main priorities could be achieved, i.e. greater tax-free 
cash amount, greater lump sum death benefits and a higher spouses pension.
Mr S wished to break all ties with his former employer and transferring his benefits to 
a stakeholder plan would allow for this to happen.
The recommendations were based on a transfer value of around £32,000. The suitability 
report is undated, but Mr S completed the transfer applications in February 2005, so it 
seems the recommendation to transfer was given at some point between October 2004 and 
February 2005.
Mr S transferred his benefits in April 2005. The actual transfer value had increased by that 
point from around £32,000 on the transfer application to over £50,000.
Mr S transferred his funds again in 2007 after advice from another appointed representative 
of Sesame. Mr S stayed with this adviser and switched pensions again in 2017 (at which 
point Sesame wasnt the principal firm anymore).
Mr S complains that he didnt know how a final salary scheme worked and what benefits it 
held. He says the implications of transferring werent explained to him. He says the adviser 
at no point explained why a transfer might not be the best option for him.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought 
Sesame gave unsuitable advice and if they had advised against a transfer Mr S would still 
have his benefits from the DB scheme now.
Sesame disagreed. They provided a financial viability analysis carried out last year by a third 
party which showed a critical yield of 6.56%. This was based on the higher transfer value   
Mr S actually received.
Our investigator maintained his view that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He explained 
that the transfer value had only changed after the advice had been given. If Sesame had 
advised against a transfer its likely the higher transfer value wouldnt have come to light. So 
Mr S likely would have stayed in his DB scheme.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. Sesames advice was based 
on a critical yield of 7.8%. This compares with the discount rate of also 7.8% per year for 26 
years to retirement in this case. 
I think given that Mr S was still many years from retirement and assuming he was willing and 
able to take some risk with his pension, he might have been able to match the benefits from 
the scheme. However, in order to make a transfer financially viable, the transfer needed to 
enable Mr S to exceed his DB benefits and I dont think this was likely based on the transfer 
value and critical yield in the advice report. Giving up guarantees just to likely stand still 
and take the risk to be worse off is not in a clients best interest. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable. The suitability report 
mentions greater lump sum death benefits, higher spouses benefits and maximising his tax-
free cash amount as Mr Ss priorities. Mr S also completed a pension transfer questionnaire 
at the time which I considered. However, I think its worth noting here that Mr S only ticked 
pre-populated boxes and didnt add any of his own wording, so Im mindful that these might 
not have been necessarily priorities he had strong feelings about before he was asked to 
complete the questionnaire.
Its correct that tax free cash would have been higher in the stakeholder pension. However, 
whilst he ticked a box to say he required the maximum possible lump sum upon retirement, 
Mr S also answered no to the question whether he needed this lump sum for a specific 
purpose. Mr S was still many years from retirement. If he really needed a large lump sum in 
future he could have still transferred at that point when he knew how much he needed and 
for what purpose. I dont think a potential, unspecified need for a lump sum in the future 
justified a transfer.Regarding lump sum death benefits before retirement, Mr S ticked a box in the questionnaire 
to say he had only little life assurance cover and his dependants could do with extra sums if 
they could be made available. I think most people would want to know their family was 
looked after in the event of their death. However, whilst I can see it was recorded Mr S had 
life assurance, no further details about the sum assured were mentioned. I also cant see 
that it was explored with Mr S how much his wife earned or how much money his family 
would need in the event of his death. If this was a priority to the point where it would 
outweigh the financial viability of a transfer, I would have expected detailed discussions 
around this including the option of whether life cover could have been increased instead of 
giving up guaranteed benefits in the DB scheme. And I cant see any evidence that this was 
discussed in any detail. Given that Mr S was young and healthy, the primary purpose of the 
pension should have been to provide benefits to Mr S in retirement and not death benefits. 
With regards to a spouses or dependants pension Mr S ticked a box to say hed rather 
maximise his own benefits as his wife had substantial pension provisions on her own. So it 
seems there was not a strong need for higher spouses benefits. The DB pension offered a 
50% spouses pension and I cant see any reasons in the evidence provide that Mr S 
required more than this.
The suitability letter also mentioned that Mr S didnt want to have anything to do with his ex-
employer. But even if Mr S felt this way, the adviser should have explained to him objectively 
that this shouldnt be a reason to transfer away from valuable benefits. 
So overall, I dont think Sesame was able to demonstrate that it was in Mr Ss best interest to 
transfer. At the point they gave their recommendation, I think Sesame should have advised 
him to keep his deferred DB benefits and I see no reason why he wouldnt have followed this 
advice. 
I appreciate that by the time Mr Ss transfer was executed, the critical yield was lower due to 
the increase in transfer value. So based on this, it was in fact financially viable for Mr S to 
transfer. But when Sesame gave their advice they didnt have this information and the higher 
transfer value would likely never have been discussed. For the reasons set out above, I think 
their recommendation at the time should have been not to transfer. 
Mr S said in his complaint that the adviser had speculatively approached him in his shop to 
discuss his pension, so Im not convinced that once Sesame had recommended Mr S that he 
should keep his DB benefits, he would have continued to consider a transfer. 
It follows that without Sesames unsuitable advice Mr S would more likely than not still have 
his DB benefits now.
 
Putting things right
 A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he 
would have remained in the DB scheme. Sesame must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.Sesame may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition Sesame should pay Mr S £300 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Sesame receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sesame to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000 plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000 I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Sesame Limited should pay Mr S the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest as set 
out above. The calculations should be presented to Mr S in a clear and easy to understand 
format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000 I recommend that Sesame Limited pay Mr S the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Sesame Limited dont have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mr S may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether 
to accept this decision.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman