DRN-4055849
The complaint
Mr A complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) declined his claim, 
cancelled his policy, and is pursuing him for costs it incurred in relation to an accident he 
was involved in, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was hit from the rear in an incident that occurred in January 2022. He says he 
initially used a solicitor to pursue the third-partys insurer. But his solicitor decided not to 
proceed due to the dashcam footage provided by the third-party. Mr A then contacted Skyfire 
a few weeks later to make a claim under his policy.  
Mr As car was considered a total loss by Skyfires engineer, and he was paid a settlement 
amount, minus an amount for retaining the salvage. The third party subsequently disputed 
liability and provided the dashcam footage to Skyfire. It carried out further investigations 
including an interview with Mr A. It found that there were a number of discrepancies in Mr As 
account of events.
Skyfire says the third party claimed the dashcam footage shows Mr A braking for no 
apparent reason. It also says there was no evidence of Mr As car skidding prior to him 
braking as he said in his claim call. Skyfire says Mr A didnt inform it that his solicitor hadnt 
proceeded with his claim because the dashcam footage showed no valid reason for him to 
have braked. Also, that he had pursued a personal injury claim via the solicitor but told 
Skyfire he hadnt made any claim for injuries only for accident damage. 
Mr A says the steering felt heavy and unresponsive prior to the incident, which is why he 
braked. Skyfire says this differs from the account he gave in his claim call. It refers to its 
policy terms that say it will cancel a policy and declare it void in the event of fraudulent claim. 
Skyfire says it will retain Mr As premium and asks that he pays the cost of the claim, which 
stands at £11,909.99, which includes the third-party damages and an investigation fee. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and contacted our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He agreed with Skyfire that there were a number of discrepancies in Mr As 
account of events. He says Skyfire had declined the claim and cancelled the policy fairly. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Skyfire relied on the following policy term to decline Mr As claim and cancel his policy:
The insurer will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated or if 
you or anyone acting for you makes a claim which is false or fraudulent. In these 
circumstances the insurer may cancel or void your policy immediately without further notice, 
and any other policies that you may have with us will be treated in the same way. The 
insurer may recover any costs they have incurred including claims costs, and will not return 
any premium you have already paid.
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Skyfire to rely on this clause in the circumstances of 
Mr As claim. 
Skyfire has provided the call recording from when Mr A first notified it of his claim. During the 
call he tells the agent his solicitor is no longer pursuing the matter with the third-partys 
insurer and that he needs to claim via his policy with Skyfire. When describing the accident, 
he says it had been raining before he set off and the roads were wet. It wasnt raining at the 
time of the accident, but he says the road was slippery. Mr A says he was driving at around 
40mph and he started losing control of the vehicle. He says he couldnt steer so started 
braking. This is when the third-party vehicle collided with the rear of his car. 
Skyfire initially accepted Mr As claim. It decided his car was a total loss, due to the cost of 
repairs, and provided him with a settlement payment.  
Skyfires records show it called Mr A at the beginning of March 2022 after it had received 
contact from the third-party insurer about the dashcam footage. The records say its agent 
told Mr A he would be found at fault for the accident. He was told that the dashcam footage 
didnt show his car skidding or that there was a reason for him braking as he did. 
Ive watched the dashcam footage. I cant see that there is any obvious reason for Mr A to 
have used his brake. I also cant see that his car skidded prior to the collision. However, 
having listened to the claim call, Mr A didnt say the car skidded, he said he started losing 
control and couldnt steer. Skyfire says he told it he started to skid, which was the reason he 
braked, and he later deviated from this version of events. However, this isnt what Mr A said 
in his claim call.
That said, from the dashcam footage, there is no apparent reason why Mr A braked 
suddenly. The video shows him driving steadily and includes the speed of the third-partys 
vehicle. This was around 40mph. There is no sign that the car skidded or any indication that 
Mr A was having difficulty steering the car. 
In a more recent telephone discussion with our investigator, Mr A says the reason he braked 
was because he hit a pothole and the steering went stiff. This isnt something he mentioned 
in his claim call. And from reviewing the dashcam footage there is no evidence of a pothole. 
Mr A was driving steadily, he then brakes sharply resulting in the third-parties van colliding 
with the rear of his car. 
When Mr A told Skyfire about the potential mechanical issue with his steering, it arranged for 
an engineer to inspect his car. Ive read the engineers report provided by Skyfire. The 
engineer says that under testing he considered the steering was heavier than it should be. 
He says it operated lock to lock with no issues however the electric motor could be heard 
starting to strain a little. The engineer thought it probable there was an issue with the power 
steering motor or the wiring harness/connector, and this hadnt resulted from the collission. 
He says he told Mr A the car should no longer be driven until it had been inspected by a 
specialist. 
During his recent call with our investigator Mr A asked that his explanation of the 
discrepancies, highlighted by Skyfire, be passed on for my consideration. He explains that he hadnt understood there was a difference between a personal injury claim and making a 
claim for damage. He says this is why there was some confusion around this point. 
Ive read the report Skyfires investigator produced following an interview with Mr A in April 
2022. The investigator thought Mr As testimony, that he hadnt responded to the third-party 
driver when asked why hed braked, was unlikely. He also thought Mr A wouldve mentioned 
the steering fault to the other driver at this time, but he says he hadnt. In addition, the 
investigator reported it was strange that nothing else was said between Mr A and the other 
driver following the collision. 
In his report the investigator says Mr A confirmed hed driven the car to the shops a few 
times after the accident. The investigator asked how he was able to do this if there was a 
steering fault. Mr A responded that it was okay if he drives at slow speeds.  
I note Skyfires comments that Mr A was involved in another incident in January 2021. But 
when asked by its investigator he didnt mention this. It says he also failed to disclose this 
incident when his policy was taken out.
Having considered all of this I dont think Skyfire acted unfairly in declining Mr As claim. In 
his claim call he said he started losing control and couldnt steer, which is why he braked. He 
later says he hit a pothole and the steering went stiff, and this is why he braked. Neither of 
these scenarios is supported by the dashcam footage Ive seen. In this Mr A appears to be 
driving normally and suddenly brakes without apparent reason. I think it was reasonable for 
Skyfire to have concerns given the differing accounts Mr A provided. This is further 
supported by the video footage that shows Mr A braking without apparent reason.
Skyfire has relied on its policy terms when declining to cover this claim and to cancel Mr As 
policy. It says its able to take this action where a claim is fraudulent, false or exaggerated. 
Based on this evidence I dont think Skyfire acted unreasonably in taking the action it did and 
for the reasons it gave. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman