DRN-1072314
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R have a travel insurance policy as part of their bank account.  Ill refer to all 
submissions by Mr and Mrs R as being made by Mr R.
In April 2019, Mr R and his wife travelled to India. The day before their return journey, they 
were told that their flight had been cancelled. The airline subsequently offered them another 
flight, but it was also cancelled. Following the advice of the travel agent, Mr R  booked 
replacement flights home with a different airline. He wasn't able to get a refund for either 
flight from the airline, so he made a claim on his travel insurance policy. After
Mr R started his journey home the airline stopped operating. 
Aviva declined the claim, as they said there was no cover available under the policy for this 
particular event. They also said that their policy wasn't designed to cover every eventuality. 
However, they explained that his bank or travel agent might be able to help.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didn't uphold it. She explained that the 
policy did provide cover for cancelled flights, in certain circumstances. However, like Aviva 
she agreed that those circumstances didn't match the situation here. She also advised Mr R 
to contact his travel agent and the airline.
Aviva accepted the opinion, but Mr R didn't. In response, he said he couldn't believe there 
was no way he could receive a refund, as he was abandoned by the airline, and he had no 
other way to get home. He also said his travel agent told him he would get a refund from his 
insurer, so he doesn't think Aviva has treated him fairly.
As, the investigator's opinion remained the same, I've therefore considered the complaint 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules and appropriate industry guidelines, Aviva was required to consider 
Mr and Mrs R's claim promptly and fairly. And they shouldn't decline it unreasonably.
I have carefully reviewed each section of the policy and I think Aviva reasonably concluded 
there isn't any cover available for Mr R's claim.
The abandonment section of the policy lists ten events Mr R would have been covered for, 
under this section of the policy. These include, illness, natural disasters, advice from the Foreign Office, damage to your home and inability to travel on your outward international 
journey. None of these apply to Mr R.
Mr R has highlighted the following term.
If your pre-booked arrangements have been cancelled by your carrier or their handling 
agent, you must provide written confirmation from them that they were unable to offer 
you alternative travel arrangements that were suitable to you within 24
hours of the date and time of your scheduled departure as shown on the
ticket/itinerary.
However, this term would only have been relevant if Mr R had been unable to travel on his 
outward journey, as I've stated above. 
I've  also considered if there is any cover under the cancellation or delayed flights sections of 
the policy and concluded that there isn't. This is because Mr D didn't cancel his holiday 
before travelling and his flight wasn't delayed, it was cancelled. And in any event, he 
departed the country the day before, he was originally due to travel home.
I appreciate that the airline stopped operating shortly after Mr R's return to the UK and has 
been in financial difficulties since then. But, even if the airline became insolvent or was 
unable to carry out it's duties for Mr R, there's a general exclusion in the policy which means 
Mr R isn't covered for this. That's not uncommon in the travel insurance industry. 
I know Mr R believes his policy should provide cover for his situation, but Aviva, like every 
insurer, can decide which events they want to provide cover for. It also isn't unusual for this 
situation not to  be covered throughout the travel insurance industry. I'm also unable to direct 
Aviva to settle the claim just because Mr R's travel agent suggested they would do so. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint as the claim wasn't declined unreasonably. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman