DRN-1795048
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Oodle Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the vehicle to be 
repaired or to be able to reject it.
What happened
Mr D tells us he acquired the vehicle in March 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as "SD". Almost 
from the start he says he experienced problems. He says the vehicle started to make an 
unusual noise. SD paid for repairs but this didnt solve the problem. Mr D says he then had 
some of the tyres changed - which resolved the issue. But he states that SD refused to 
repay him as it said the tyres had been legal upon supply. Soon afterwards Mr D says he 
noticed a fault with the all wheel drive (AWD) system and complained to Oodle as SD 
also wouldnt assist with this. He says this fault has persisted.
Oodle issued a final response letter in which it rejected Mr Ds complaint. It said it had 
arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a company Ill call A. It said that 
whilst As inspection had revealed faults it had concluded these were due to wear and tear 
issues.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She issued two views the 
first of which was in January 2020. She said Mr S had supplied a diagnostic test carried out 
by a company Ill refer to as N. This diagnostic test - which was carried out in June 2019 -
had identified a fault with the AWD system. As this issue had been shown to have arisen 
within the first six months after supply she said Oodle should arrange for the vehicle to be 
repaired.
She issued a second view in April 2020 recommending that Mr D should be able to reject the 
vehicle. She said it hadnt been possible for Oodle to arrange for the repairs to be carried 
out. And she thought it wasnt reasonable for Mr D to have to wait any longer.
Oodle accepted the investigators first view but subsequently told us it was having difficulty in 
contacting SD as that business was changing hands. Following the second view it said it 
understood why it was necessary for matter to be referred to an ombudsman as it had been 
unable to arrange repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr D has experienced problems with this vehicle. And hes undoubtedly been 
inconvenienced by the intermittent issues which have arisen. Unfortunately with used vehicle 
things are more likely to go wrong. And thats whats happened here.Mr Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Oodle supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle. 
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that goods should be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something to which I've not referred specifically, this isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
After Mr D had complained, Oodle had the vehicle inspected by A.  The report by A identified 
faults including excessive knocking at slow speed steering. And a fault code relating to a 
configuration error with the AWD system control unit.  A  concluded these faults were 
probably down to wear and tear and wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. 
Unfortunately, some of the information given to A (about the mileage prior to supply) wasnt 
accurate. And Mr D was able to supply a diagnostic test from June 2019 which also 
identified the same fault with the control unit as indicated by A. I don't think it would be fair to 
rely on the conclusion in A's report as it was reached without knowledge of these additional 
material factors.
Following our investigators first view both parties were agreed that repairs to the vehicle 
should be carried out without cost to Mr D. That ought to have resolved the complaint to the 
satisfaction of both sides. Unfortunately a combination of circumstances has meant the 
repairs have yet to be carried out. SD is apparently being taken over by another business 
which hasnt been able to agree to the proposed actions.
Section 23 CRA 2015 states:
(2)  If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must
 (a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer, 
and
Section 24 (5) CRA 2015 states:
a consumer who has the right to a price reduction and the final right to reject may only 
exercise one (not both), and may only do so in one of these situations
(c)  the consumer has required the trader to repair or replace the goods, but the trader is in 
breach of the requirement of section 23(2)(a) to do so within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer."
Given the delay in having the repairs carried out I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to 
now be able to exercise his right to reject the vehicle.For completeness, I need to explain that whilst the current finance agreement refers to an 
advance payment it seems this was used to partly settle outstanding finance on a vehicle 
used in part-exchange. So there's no deposit to refund in respect of the rejected vehicle. I 
haven't seen any proof of payment regarding the cost of replacement tyres. Mr D will need to 
supply this to Oodle.
Putting things right
Oodle now needs to take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr D to pay from date of termination;      
    Payments due up to this date will still need to be paid. 
2. Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr D;
3. Upon proof of payment refund cost of replaced tyres;
4. Pay £300 to Mr D for distress an inconvenience;
5. Arrange to have the record of the agreement removed from Mr D's credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm upholding this complaint.
I now require Oodle Financial Services Limited to take the following action in full and final 
settlement of this complaint:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr D to pay from date of termination;      
    Payments due up to this date will still need to be made.            
2. Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr D;
3. Upon proof of payment refund cost of replaced tyres;*
4. Pay £300 to Mr D for distress an inconvenience;
5. Arrange to have the record of the agreement removed from Mr D's credit file.
* Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to this sum from date of 
payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman