DRN-2055730
The complaint
Mr V complains that he was charged for purchases he made with a credit card he took out 
with Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank, although hed understood that the 
card offered interest free purchases.
What happened
Mr V took out a credit card with Tesco that had an initial interest free offer for purchases. He 
used it to pay money onto a share trading platform. Tesco treats this as a cash transaction, 
so it charged Mr V cash transaction fees and also interest on the money he spent. When the 
interest and charges were applied, that took Mr V over his credit limit. Mr V raised this with 
Tesco, and it refunded the £12 fee for being over his credit limit, and offered him a months 
hold on fees and interest to make other arrangements if he wanted to. It also said that he 
could contact their financial assistance team, if he was having financial problems. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said what Tesco had done 
was in line with the terms of the account. Mr V shouldve read those terms and conditions of 
the account, or asked Tesco if there was anything he was unsure about. She said Tesco 
hadnt made a mistake by charging interest or fees, and she couldnt ask Tesco to remove 
all the interest and make these transactions interest free for 22 months, as they wouldve 
been if they were ordinary purchases. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said he couldnt be expected to read all of around 30 pages of terms 
and conditions. He said hed assumed this card worked like others hed had, some didnt 
allow these transactions at all, and others warned Mr V before he could make these 
transactions. Mr V said that hed done a test transaction, and not been charged anything, so 
he didnt expect to be charged for the next transactions he made. (The fees were added the 
next day.) And Mr V said he hadnt been able to transfer this balance to another card 
because his credit score wasnt good, so having a month interest free didnt help him. 
A new investigator at our service then took over this case. He didnt think it should be upheld 
either. He said it was Mr Vs responsibility to check the terms and conditions, and if there 
was any issue, to ask Tesco about it. Our investigator didnt think Tesco was obliged to alert 
Mr V to possible cash transaction fees and interest when he made a transaction. Tesco had 
already set out this information for Mr V when he signed up for the card. After that, it was 
enough to tell him about these on his statements. Our investigator didnt think this was 
Tescos mistake. 
Mr V said hed made the payments on the card through an e-money site, so he didnt think 
this should count as a cash transaction. Mr V wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr V said he didnt read the terms of this card when he took it out. But its clear from what 
hes said that he is aware that not all cards allow this sort of transaction, and some charge 
fees for it. So I think Mr V knew he might be charged for the money he paid onto the share 
trading platform. If he was concerned about this, he couldve checked this part of the terms 
of his card specifically. Or he couldve rung Tesco and asked. He didnt do that. 
The terms Tesco has shown our service do set out that the transactions Mr V made are 
counted as cash transactions. They incur a cash transaction fee. And they dont qualify for 
the interest free purchases offer that Mr V had on his card, because they arent treated like 
other purchases. I know Mr V paid through an e-money website, to try to avoid Tesco 
making these charges, but I dont think Tesco made a mistake when it charged cash 
transaction fees and interest on his share trading. I dont think Tesco has to waive that 
interest now. 
Tesco has waived some fees and interest, and told Mr V he can speak to its financial 
support team if hes struggling. I dont think Tesco has to do more than this. 
I know Mr V will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman