DRN-4156974
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with C&G in August 2021. She contacted 
C&G to make a claim after it appeared her dog had bumped into a pane of glass in the 
garden and injured her left eye. Ms M said the glass in question was a glass shelf made out 
of tempered glass which was being disposed of. 
Ms M says she was given the impression her claim would be covered before the dog had 
further treatment for the injury from a specialist.
Later C&G declined the claim. It said Ms M was in breach of the policy conditions as the 
injury could have been prevented by removing the glass from the area where it had been left 
or paying proper attention to the dog while she was outside.
Ms M brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She didnt think C&G 
hadnt acted fairly in relying on the fact that the accident was preventable to decline the 
claim. She recommended that C&G should settle the claim and pay 8% simple interest on 
any amount payable to Ms M.
As C&G didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy states that it will cover vet fees for treating an Illness or Accidental Injury 
suffered by Your pet whilst insured with Us.
The term Accidental Injury is defined as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or 
event, with a specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your 
pets body. 
This cover is subject to the following condition:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging and paying for 
Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental Injury.
A dog bumping into a pane of glass is an accidental injury that would fall within this section 
of cover. What I have to decide is whether it was reasonable for C&G to rely on the condition 
set out above in order to decline the claim.
When looking at these complaints we take into account the test of recklessness as that of 
the legal case on reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds Rep 559.
So if an insurer turns down a claim because the consumer failed to take reasonable care, 
there needs to be evidence to show the consumer acted recklessly. Thats the case where 
the consumer recognised a risk but took no measures at all to lower the risk or they knew 
the measures were inadequate. 
Ms M has explained that the glass shelf wasnt broken and was placed behind the recycling 
bin in her garden. It had been there for a few days before the accident happened. The glass 
was tempered glass which is a lot stronger than ordinary glass. Tempered glass breaks into 
small rounded fragments rather than pointy shards and is less likely than ordinary glass to 
cause injury. I dont think it was reckless to leave such glass in the garden out of the way for 
a few days.
C&G says the glass shouldnt have been left where the dog could reach it. But it seems 
unreasonable to me to expect Ms M to monitor her dog in the garden and stop her from 
walking into anything which might cause an eye injury such as a low branch. Just because 
an accident was preventable doesnt mean that reasonable care wasnt taken. Im not 
persuaded C&G has shown that Ms M acted recklessly in this case.
To put things right, I think C&G should settle the claim subject to the terms of the policy and 
also pay interest on any amount due to Ms M. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to settle Ms Ms claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy limit and to pay interest on any amount paid to her at the simple rate 
of 8% from the date her claim was made until payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman