DRN-4453287
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the price charged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) to renew her car insurance policy and about recording an incident as a claim. 
She also complains about the customer service when she called them to discuss the price. 
What happened
Mrs Ds car was damaged while parked and unoccupied. Mrs D reported this to Admiral for 
information only as, having obtained details of the third party, she intended to claim against 
them directly. Mrs D then received a renewal invite and noticed the price had increased and 
noticed her policy documents were showing a claim had been recorded. Mrs D complained 
and said Admiral had recorded the incident against her policy which had led to the increase 
in price. Mrs D also complained about staff at Admiral being rude and unhelpful when she 
queried the price increase. Admiral responded and explained, as the insurer, they must be 
notified of any incidents involving Mrs Ds car, whether she wishes to make a claim or not. 
Admiral explained any incident is considered a risk factor which will be taken into account 
when pricing a policy renewal. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D. He thought Admiral hadnt treated Mrs D 
unfairly in relation to the pricing and making a record of the incident. He also thought Admiral 
hadnt acted unreasonably when handling Mrs Ds queries about the price. Mrs D disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Pricing 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs D paid £165.21 for her policy in 2021 but then received a renewal quote for 
£278.39 for 2022. This was later reduced to £234.32 following negotiation. This is more than 
what she paid the previous year so, given Mrs D says she wasnt at fault for the incident and 
also didnt make a claim, I understand why shes concerned about the price increase. 
Admiral have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how 
Mrs Ds price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with her because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price Mrs D has 
been quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
Admiral customers in Mrs Ds position will have been charged a lower premium. 
 
The information provided by Admiral shows they take into account a range of rating factors 
when pricing a policy. They say they regularly update their rates in line with their most up to 
date claims experience. I can see there are some rating factors where the loadings have 
increased, and which have contributed to the price increase. I can see though that Mrs D is 
particularly concerned about the non-fault incident notification and how this impacted the 
price. The information shows the incident reported by Mrs D has been recorded as a 
notification only incident. I can see the notification has been factored into the ratings and 
Ive seen a breakdown of the specific ratings which have been affected and how the loadings 
have been applied. Taking this into account, I cant say Admiral have made an error in their 
calculation or treated Mrs D unfairly.   
Mrs D may feel this is unfair, and I acknowledge she only reported the incident to Admiral 
and had no intention of making a claim under her policy. But I think its important to mention 
here, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight 
to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an 
insurer offering a higher premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a 
cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to 
risk. This also applies to rating factors, and if an insurer decides to apply a rating factor to a 
non-fault notification incident, it doesnt mean theyve acted unfairly. 
Notification of incident 
Ive listened to a recording of Mrs Ds call with Admiral where she first reported the incident. 
During the call Mrs D explains the circumstances of the incident and that she has the third 
partys details. She explains shes been liaising with the third-party insurers direct but has 
found them to be difficult. The call handler discusses the options available to Mrs D which 
include making a claim or using Admirals non-fault service and Mrs D explains shes 
reluctant to make a claim. Its clear from the call recording Mrs D only wants to provide 
notification of the incident to Admiral  and thats how theyve treated it. Mrs D has notified 
Admiral of the incident, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to make a record of 
the notification  and Ive not seen any evidence that Admiral have at any point suggested 
no record would be made.  
I understand Mrs D is concerned about the notification impacting her price. I can see Admiral 
have reported the notification on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). The CUE 
is a database which records information about motor and home incidents, as well as other 
areas. An insurer has a duty to make accurate records. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, 
then they will make a record of any incident theyve been made aware of, whether that leads 
to a claim or not. In this case, I agree with Mrs D that her report didnt lead to a claim 
requiring Admiral to pay out any costs. But a report was made, and the information shows 
Admiral were made aware of an incident. So, given theres a duty on Admiral to make 
accurate records, I cant say theyve acted unfairly in recording this incident. 
Customer service 
 
I understand Mrs D says call handlers at Admiral were rude and unhelpful. Ive listened to 
calls between Mrs D and Admiral to discuss her concerns about the price increase. During 
one call, Mrs D explains theres a claim showing on her documents, but she hasnt made a 
claim, so this information is inaccurate. The call handler explains their records show Mrs D 
reported a non-fault incident. Mrs D again explains she hasnt made a claim and wants this record removed. The call handler explains its been recorded as notification only and hasnt 
been treated as a claim under the policy. The call handler explains even though theyve 
treated it as notification only, its likely a rating will have been applied to this when pricing the 
policy. Mrs D explains she only contacted Admiral for the purposes of making an enquiry, yet 
she has been penalised now by her policy price increasing. 
I acknowledge Mrs D wants Admiral to remove the record of the notification and the call 
handler explained they cant do this. I understand Mrs D is concerned about a claim showing 
on her policy when a claim wasnt made. I think its important to clarify, Admiral havent 
treated this as a claim on the policy, theyve treated it as notification of an incident. Theres 
no dispute Mrs D reported the incident to Admiral so I cant say theyve acted unreasonably 
in refusing to remove the record of the notification. 
Complaint handling 
I note Mrs D has concerns about Admirals complaints handing  she says they took too long 
to address her complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So 
as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, 
we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a 
customers complaint, then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the 
overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which Mrs D raises about 
the complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so 
I cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
I understand Mrs D will be disappointed, but I hope she feels reassured the incident hasnt 
been recorded as a claim but as notification only of an incident. While this has had an impact 
on the price, I cant say its unreasonable for Admiral to have rated the notification in the way 
they have. I wish to reassure Mrs D Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but 
if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it 
or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman