DRN-3186026
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the decision Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) made on his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr G has a group income protection policy through his employer that was underwritten by 
Aviva. 
 
He became absent from work in April 2019 and was signed off from work by his General 
Practitioner (GP) with anxiety and poor sleep. In June 2019 he was admitted as an inpatient 
to hospital for treatment for hypermania and was discharged after a week. 
Aviva was notified of a potential claim through Mr Gs employer. They requested his medical 
records which were received in December 2019. Concerned the medical evidence didnt give 
enough information about his current circumstances, Aviva made several unsuccessful 
attempts to contact Mr G to try and gain a better understanding about his situation. They 
were also made aware in February 2020 that Mr G hadnt been in contact with his employer 
since his absence had started in April 2019. 
Aviva said there was enough evidence to show Mr G was incapacitated through the deferred 
period. So they agreed to pay the benefit from 9 October 2019 to 31 December 2019. But 
they said there wasnt enough evidence to support further benefit from this point. They 
highlighted that Mr G had told his GP that he was recovering and planning to return to work 
in the new year - and they hadnt seen any evidence to explain why he'd been unable to 
return to work as hed planned. But they said theyd be happy to review this position if Mr G 
could provide any additional medical evidence. 
Mr G continued to be signed off work by his GP until he returned to work in September 2020. 
He provided Aviva with an additional letter from his GP that confirmed his anxiety diagnosis 
and that he was unable to work. He also provided a copy of his occupational health report. 
But Aviva maintained their position that benefit was only payable up until 2019 as there 
wasnt enough evidence to support incapacity during 2020. 
Mr G returned to work and Aviva agreed to pay a partial benefit claim from 28 September to 
03 November 2020, to cover the period of his phased return before he started back on full 
time hours. 
Unhappy that he hadnt received benefit for his absence from work in 2020, Mr G referred 
the matter to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he 
thought Aviva had acted fairly. 
Mr G disagreed. In summary he said: 
We hadnt given enough weight to his GP signing him off - this is medical evidence 
GPs dont just take a patient's word for it - they make their own medical judgement 
and he was judged to be too mentally ill to work 
Aviva are penalising him because his GP didnt write in the way Aviva wanted them 
to
The occupational health report from June 2020 was also a medical opinion we 
havent given enough weight to  
Aviva are in breach of the contract he entered into with them because he does meet 
the policy definition of incapacity
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Our investigator has referred to Aviva terminating Mr Gs claim. But for clarity I want to 
confirm that doesnt appear to be whats happened here. From what Ive seen, in 2020 when 
Aviva eventually agreed to cover the claim, they were clear it was only ever accepted up 
until the end of 2019 because there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr G met the definition 
of incapacity after this point. 
This means the burden of proof was on Mr G to prove he has a valid claim under his policy 
by showing he was fully incapacitated until his return to work. 
Avivas terms and conditions define incapacity as:
The member's inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role
as a result of their illness or injury.
Ive reviewed everything on file  this includes the occupational health report and additional 
letter from Mr Gs GP. Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to only 
cover the claim from October to December 2019. Ill explain my reasons in more detail 
below:
Aviva placed weight on Mr Gs medical assessment in September 2019 with his GP. 
Mr G reports he is no longer suffering from psychotic symptoms and is in the 
recovery period. He said hed previously had psychotic episodes, and each followed 
a similar pattern - it usually took a few months to be ready to return to work, so he 
was hoping to be back in the early part of next year. 
This is a detailed piece of evidence about Mr Gs ability to work in the future. I think it 
was fair for Aviva to give considerable weight to it and as Mr G made these 
comments in September, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude he 
should be able to return to work in January 2020. 
Following this review in September 2019, Mr G does continue to be signed off work 
by his GP, but I agree with Aviva there isnt enough evidence to explain why Mr Gs 
condition didnt improve as expected, and why it took him longer to return to work this 
time. As explained above, the onus is on Mr G to provide enough evidence to support he 
remained too unwell to work. Although I can see Mr G has tried his best to support 
his claim and provided additional evidence from his GP and occupational health, Im 
not persuaded Aviva decision was unreasonable based on the evidence that is 
available. 
I appreciate Mr Gs point that hes provided medical evidence that says he was too 
unwell to work from both his GP and his occupational health therapist. But whilst both 
have valid medical opinions, the test I must apply is whether their evidence is enough 
to demonstrate Mr G meets the policy definition of incapacity. And Im not persuaded 
the evidence from both parties goes far enough to show why Mr Gs anxiety 
symptoms continued to be so severe throughout 2020 he was unable to return to 
work until September.
I can see Aviva did try to obtain more evidence to help support benefit for 2020 - they 
reviewed Mr Gs medical records again, consulted their own medical team, contacted 
his GP for further information and tried to speak to Mr G himself so they could better 
understand his circumstances. But after doing so they still felt the incapacity 
threshold hadnt been met in 2020. As such, Im unable to say Aviva acted unfairly 
when assessing this claim. 
On balance, having reviewed the available evidence I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Aviva to only pay incapacity benefit until 2019. From this point I agree there isnt 
enough evidence in the GP records or the occupational health report to show Mr G 
was still experiencing anxiety symptoms of such severity he continued to meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman