DRN-2933758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that their claim to Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) on their home 
insurance for water damage has been unfairly declined in part. They are also unhappy with 
the length of time taken and the service received.
References to Mr A or Mrs A, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Zurich involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Zurich.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A live in a maisonette within a block of flats. 
In April 2020 water escaped from a break in communal drainage two floors above their 
maisonette and caused a flood in their bathroom and kitchen, so they made a claim on their 
home insurance. 
A loss adjuster completed an inspection of the damage caused and the work required to 
repair and restore the kitchen and bathroom. Due to the government lockdown restrictions 
the inspection was not completed at their home but was completed by video, with help from 
Mrs As son. 
At the time of this inspection Mrs As son said there was no damage to the kitchen units.
Mrs A obtained a quote for repair from a builder, which included fitting new kitchen units, and 
submitted it to Zurich.
A settlement was offered by Zurich, but this did not include the cost of new kitchen units. Mrs 
A disagreed with the offer and said that the digital inspection carried out by Zurich couldnt 
see how bad the damage was. As government lockdown restrictions were changing to allow 
visits to take place, Zurich agreed to carry out a physical inspection at her property. 
There was some confusion in organising this appointment and so Mrs A complained to 
Zurich that it had caused them to become stressed.  Zurich agreed there was confusion, and 
so made a payment of £150 compensation to apologise for the inconvenience and difficulty 
in arranging the visit. 
The physical inspection was completed, and Zurich said again there was no damage evident 
to the kitchen units and it would not be covering costs for new ones. Mrs A still disagreed 
and further advised that she was concerned about water damage behind the kitchen tiles. 
Mrs A instructed her builders to go ahead with the work, including buying and fitting new 
kitchen units, to avoid further delay. 
In October 2020 after no contact from the loss adjuster regarding the settlement amount Mrs 
A complained again about the lack of contact and further compensation of £100 was paid by 
Zurich. 
In addition to the two compensation payments, Mr and Mrs A have accepted cash 
settlements from Zurich for other work completed. 
£1,200. for cleaning and sanitising
£2,811.32 for the buildings/reinstatement works
£860 Trace and Access costs
In November 2020 a further £283.82 was offered for the re-plastering of the kitchen walls. 
Mrs A declined this as she said Zurich should pay a further £6,280 that she had paid to her 
builder.
Zurich said they would not pay that amount as it was for work that did not form part of her 
claim.
As Mr and Mrs A were not happy with the response from Zurich they brought the complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and did not uphold the complaint as he decided that 
Zurich had rejected the claim for kitchen units fairly, as he had not seen any evidence to 
persuade him they were damaged by the escape of water.
As Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there was a flood into Mrs As home which damaged her kitchen and 
bathroom. She had home insurance cover in place with Zurich to put this damage right.
I have looked at the pictures and reports submitted by both Mrs A and Zurich. 
There is a large difference between Mrs As Builder and Zurich in the estimates of work 
required to repair the damage caused by the flood. The main difference being the 
replacement of the units in the kitchen. 
Zurichs loss adjusters said the kitchen units do not need to be replaced and Mrs As builder 
quoted for replacement kitchen units. 
When Mrs A complained that the digital inspection did not show all the damage to her 
kitchen, Zurich organised for an expert to visit in person to undertake a closer and more 
accurate inspection. 
In the report produced from this this visit it was again recorded that there was no damage to 
the kitchen units and there was no evidence to advise they needed to be replaced. The 
pictures that I have reviewed appear to confirm this. 
Mrs A said that there was damage to the walls behind the kitchen units so they would need 
to be removed to sort it out. To try and resolve the difference in opinion, Zurich suggested a company be appointed to 
inspect and carry out any drying works that may be required. Mrs A refused this offer so 
Zurich told her that it would not be liable should the reinstatement work fail. 
Mr and Mrs A are both pensioners and Mr A is in poor health, so I have no doubt that during 
this time they have been very stressed. I think if there had not been the government 
restrictions in place during this time then it is likely that Mrs As claim would have progressed 
much faster and is likely she would not have got to the point where she instructed builders to 
fit new kitchen units before settling her claim with Zurich.
 
Mrs A found her own builders to carry out repair work in her kitchen and the builders carried 
out the work she had requested. 
I feel it is reasonable to accept, based on all the evidence submitted from two loss adjuster 
reports, photographs and Mrs As sons testimony that the kitchen units were not damaged 
or in need of replacement as a result of the flood.
I do not agree with Mrs A that replacing the kitchen units form part of her claim, therefore I 
do not uphold her complaint that her claim has not been settled in full. I do not require Zurich 
to pay the further £6280 that Mrs A requests.
Zurich have already paid Mrs A a total of £250 in compensation for poor service. £100 for its 
lack of contact and £150 for inconvenience caused and difficulty in arranging the inspection 
visit after the lockdown restrictions had been relaxed. I think that this is a fail amount in the 
circumstances. 
If Zurich have not yet paid Mr and Mrs A the £283.82 for the re-plastering of the kitchen walls 
to finalise their claim then it should make this payment to them now.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
If Zurich Insurance PLC have not yet paid Mr and Mrs A the £283.82 for the re-plastering of 
the kitchen walls to finalise their claim then it should make this payment to them now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman