DRN-2566864
Complaint
Mr L says TransferWise Ltd didnt do enough to protect him when he was the victim of a 
scam.
Background
Mr L has an account with TransferWise. In October 2020, he was contacted by someone 
purporting to work in their fraud team. The call looked like it had been made from a 
TransferWise number. He was told that the security of his account had been compromised 
and that the only way he could protect his money was to transfer it to a safe account. He 
made two payments from his account of around £600 each. Unfortunately, Mr L wasnt 
speaking to an employee of TransferWise at all. He was speaking to a scammer.
Once Mr L realised what happened, he quickly notified TransferWise. It attempted to recover 
the money from the scammers account but it had been moved on almost immediately. Mr L 
complained to TransferWise that it hadnt done more to protect him from fraud. It said that 
there wasnt much it could do because Mr L had authorised the payments. It also said that 
he couldve exercise greater caution when interacting with the scammers.
Mr L was unhappy with the response from TransferWise and so he referred a complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator 
disagreed with the suggestion that Mr L shouldve been more cautious. Nonetheless, he 
concluded that the two payments werent unusual or out of character and so TransferWise 
wouldnt have had any grounds for thinking Mr L was at risk of a scam and so couldnt 
reasonably be expected to have prevented it.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt Mr L has been the victim of a cynical scam here and he was my complete 
sympathy. I also dont think it can be said that he acted carelessly. The methods used by 
scammers are increasingly sophisticated and persuasive. The average customer will often 
not be aware of these. 
But its important to state at the outset that Im limited to looking at whether TransferWise 
met its obligations in respect of these two payments. It is common ground that Mr L 
authorised them. He was duped by the scammers into doing so. They deceived him over the 
phone into thinking that his account was at risk of fraud. 
I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr L was the victim of 
a sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mr L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
TransferWise should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
TransferWise was therefore obliged to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character 
transactions that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. Unfortunately, I 
dont think these two payments were out of character. Ive looked at the statement data for 
Mr Ls account and I can see that he sent several payments of a similar size the same month 
as the payments he made to the scammers. 
With the benefit of hindsight, its now known that Mr L had been targeted by a scammer. If 
TransferWise had intervened, its highly likely that it wouldve been able to prevent Mr L from 
making these payments. However, based on the information it had available at the time, I 
dont think it wouldve had any reasonable basis for stepping in and looking at the payments 
more closely. For that reason, I dont think I can fairly conclude that its responsible for failing 
to prevent the scam from taking place.
I can also see that TransferWise did what it could to attempt to recover Mr Ls money. 
Unfortunately, it was moved out of the receiving account so quickly that it wasnt possible for 
any of it to be recovered.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman