DRN-3173002
The complaint
Mr C complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to repair his car fully after an accident. 
What happened
In summary Mr C was involved in an accident and his car was taken to one of UKIs 
approved repairers.  Mr C says shortly after picking the car up it overheated and broke 
down. Mr S says UKI failed to identify the radiator was damaged, he wants UKI to pay for the 
cost of repairs he completed. UKI say the damage isnt accident related.
The full details and timeline of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr C Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
UKI has provided two engineers reports which confirm there was existing damage to 
the engines water pump, and it had been leaking coolant for some time. The loss of 
coolant could have contributed to the car overheating and the problems Mr C 
encountered with the engine. The water pump was not in an area where there was 
impact damage, being located on the opposite side of the car and it was not worked 
on during the repairs. The engineers essentially concluded its coincidental the car 
broke down soon after repairs were completed. 
Mr C has provided conflicting information about what happened to his car. Hes 
provided a letter from the garage he used which said the radiator was sent away to a 
specialist and found to be damaged, so it was replaced. However, in his 
submissions, Mr C has said the radiator was sent away, tested and it wasnt found to 
be faulty or blocked. It was put back into his car but after driving it, the car continued 
to overheat. He then explains he returned it to the garage, who then replaced the 
radiator and that solved the overheating issue.
Where the evidence provided is contradictory, such as in this case, I have to make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. Which means I have to decide which 
version of events I am more persuaded by.
Having considered everything, Im persuaded UKI have reached a reasonable 
outcome in concluding the damage Mr C has highlighted wasnt caused in the 
accident. I say this as it is clear from the images provided there was an existing 
coolant leak in the engine and the water pump where this is located is not in an area 
where repairs took place. 
While Mr C has been able to show replacing the radiator solved the overheating 
problem, he hasnt provided this service with persuasive evidence which shows in 
what way the radiator was damaged and exactly how this links to the accident that 
happened. Therefore, in this instance, I think it is more likely that not it was simply 
coincidence the breakdown happened so soon after repairs were completed. 
I realise Mr C lost income as his car was not drivable for a period of time, however as 
I havent concluded UKI did anything wrong I wont be making an award for this or 
considering any award of compensation.
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman