DRN-3340442
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have told him incorrect
information about a dormancy block being removed on his account and they wont remove
the block on the account.
Mr S is represented by his father in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr S himself.
What happened
Mr S is currently overseas. He was told by Halifax that his account was dormant. As Mr S
father has Power of Attorney (POA) for Mr S, he took the POA into a branch of Halifax for
this to be registered. Mr S says that Halifax accepted this and told him that the account now
wasnt dormant. Mr S says this was also confirmed on the phone with Halifax but
subsequently after this, they informed him his account is dormant. This means he cant make
payments into the account or operate it as he would like.
Mr S complained to Halifax, who partially upheld his complaint and credited £75 to his
account. They apologised for giving him wrong information about the account and for
advising him to destroy the letter he received, which informed him that Halifax would close
his account if they didnt receive the correct certified identification for the account to remain
open - as Halifax had told him the account was up and running.
Halifax confirmed that even though Mr S was overseas, he would still need to provide the
necessary identification to operate the account. They explained until this happened, the
account would remain dormant.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said she thought the £75 that
Halifax paid Mr S was fair for him being told the wrong information. She explained that there
is an onus for Halifax to safeguard its consumers and their funds. So, she didnt think it was
unreasonable that Halifax required certified documentation to remove the dormancy block
placed. Mr S wanted an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have admitted that they told Mr S incorrect information. So I can understand why Mr
S is unhappy. I also understand that if Mr S was told the correct information about his
account, then he may have been able to provide the identification that Halifax required while
he was still in the country. But now that he is overseas, his father, the POA on the account,
does not have access to Mr S identification to send to Halifax.
But as our investigator explained to Mr S, our service is unable to tell Halifax to change their
identification procedures. Mr S account has been dormant for a prolonged period of time, so
Halifax have followed their procedure to ask for identification for Mr S so they can remove
the dormancy block. And even if they had appropriate identification from when the account
was originally opened, the account was opened in 1999. So the identification Mr S provided
Halifax then may not be in date/valid today. So I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to
ask for current identification after an account has not been used for a prolonged period of
time.
Although Mr S father does not have access to Mr S identification, Mr S himself would be
able to send certified copies of his identification to Halifax from abroad. He does not need to
send the original documentation. So I cant say that there are any unfair barriers standing in
the way of the dormancy block being removed. But the fact remains, appropriate
identification would need to be seen by Halifax for Mr S whether this is provided by his
father, the POA on the account or Mr S himself.
In terms of the wrong information being given about the block being removed, what I would
expect Halifax to do here is to apologise, realise the impact this mistake will have had on Mr
S and to pay Mr S appropriate compensation for this. Im satisfied thats what Halifax have
done here. They have apologised, explained that he was given wrong information and
credited £75 to his account.
Im satisfied that the compensation paid is fair as this broadly wouldve been in line with what
I would have awarded Mr S if Halifax had not upheld his complaint. I say this as Im
persuaded it would recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr S. But for the reasons Ive
already given, I cant ask Halifax to remove the dormancy block. So it follows that I dont
intend to ask Halifax to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax responded and said they agreed with the provisional decision. Mr S did not 
reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman