DRN-2933434
The complaint
Miss M is a sole trader. She complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined 
a claim under her business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M holds a business protection insurance policy with Covea. She made a claim on that 
policy to cover her losses arising from her business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording 
for Infectious Diseases, meant that her claim should be covered.
Miss M complained to Covea but it explained that, although her policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain Infectious Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Miss M wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Miss Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Miss Ms situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Miss M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Miss Ms business, but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.  
Miss M is looking to claim on her business protection insurance policy. These types of 
policies offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business 
protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When 
considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining Miss Ms claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy she took out. 
Having reviewed Miss Ms policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for 
the closure of her business as a result of the Governments response to the national 
pandemic. However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which 
appear most relevant provide cover.
Miss Ms policy included cover for Infectious Diseases. The policy states that it would 
provide cover for disruption to business activities in consequence of closure of the Premises 
or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a 
result ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person whilst 
at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for Disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that 
are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something Covea would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for 
the present pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out 
and updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Miss Ms policy sets out a specific list 
of illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there 
is nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Damage and Denial of Access
Miss Ms policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of Access. 
However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business 
itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-
imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Miss Ms claim.
Public Emergency
Miss Ms policy also contains an extension for the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the 
Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; 
excludinginfectious or contagious diseases.
The policy explains that the definitions given only apply where the word or phrase begins 
with an upper-case letter. As the word diseases isnt capitalised, it isnt limited to the 
definition outlined above  and therefore isnt limited to the list of specified illnesses outlined 
separately in the policy. So for that reason, I think COVID-19 is caught by this exclusion and 
therefore, cover wouldnt be available under this section of the policy.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had 
on Miss M, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms 
of the policy, I dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman