DRN-3850477
The complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE avoided his caravan insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim for the loss of his caravan. 
What happened
Mr A took out a caravan insurance policy with Great Lakes through a brokers online system. 
In his application, Mr A stated that he did have the required security devices attached to his 
caravan whilst it was in storage. But he then later stated that he didnt have these. The policy 
was provided with the Statement of Fact saying that the security systems werent in place. 
Mr A also said that his caravan was stored on a friend/relatives driveway. 
When his caravan was stolen, Mr A tried to make a claim on his policy. But Great Lakes said 
hed answered the questions it asked about wheel locks and where his caravan was stored 
incorrectly. It said the former was a breach of policy conditions and so theft wouldnt be 
covered. And it considered the latter to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim and reimburse his premiums. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be not upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she believed it was careless. 
She thought Great Lakes was entitled to avoid Mr As policy and decline his claim but that it 
should return the premium hed paid to him.
Mr A doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Mr A 
said Great Lakes knew all along that the caravan was stored at a business premises 
because this was his address, but it had still provided a policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there is some debate about whether Mr A disclosed that he wouldnt be using 
wheel locks on his unattended caravan, but his application was still accepted by Great 
Lakes. But, although this may be a breach of the policy terms, I think the other reason for 
declining his claim was more significant as that led to his policy being avoided. Great Lakes 
said Mr A hadnt correctly disclosed where his caravan would be stored. And so Ill now 
consider that. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application that his caravan would be stored on the driveway of a close 
friend rather than at a business premises.
Ive looked at the question Mr A would have been asked when he applied for cover:
Where is the caravan kept? There were six options, including Other. Selecting
Other would have provided the option for Mr A to select Any Business Premises. I think 
this is a clear question asked by Great Lakes through the site Mr A used. 
Im satisfied that Mr As caravan was stored at a business premises. I can see that this 
business was owned jointly with his friend, and so Mr A felt Driveway of a close friend was 
the closest option. But Im not satisfied that Mr A took reasonable care when selecting this 
answer. The most appropriate answer would have been Any Business Premises.
Mr A said Great Lakes had renewed his cover with his caravan stored at his business 
address. He thought it should have checked this. But Im satisfied that under CIDRA the 
onus is for Great Lakes to ask a clear question, which I think it did. And I think its for Mr A, 
as a reasonable consumer, to provide an accurate answer, which he didnt do. 
Great Lakes has provided evidence from its underwriting guide that shows that if Mr A had 
answered the question correctly, then it wouldnt have provided cover at all. This means Im 
satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Great Lakes has said Mr As misrepresentation was careless because he said he chose the 
closest option to suit his circumstances and the premises were jointly owned with a friend. I 
agree that Mr As misrepresentation was careless because I think he should have realised 
that his place of work was a business premises even though it was jointly owned with a 
friend. 
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Great Lakes can take in accordance with CIDRA. As Great Lakes wouldnt have 
offered cover at all if Mr A hadnt made the misrepresentation, then the available remedies 
are:
An insurer can avoid the policy for a careless misrepresentation. 
Return any unused premiums the consumer paid.
Treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal with 
any claims.
The insurer may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim after 
the misrepresentation.
Therefore, Im satisfied Great Lakes was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Great Lakes does not 
have to deal with his claim following the theft of his caravan. And I can see that Great Lakes 
has refunded Mr As premium. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Great Lakes to rely on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman