DRN-3666702
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Loans 2 Go charged her very high interest on loans it approved for 
her. 
What happened
Mrs H took two loans in April 2017 and August 2017. The first was for £500 for an 18 month 
loan term and the total repayable was £2,039. This loan was paid and it may have been that 
the funds from loan 2 repaid the balance on loan 1. 
The second loan was for £1,000 for 18 months and the total payable was £4,078. Mrs H 
made only two repayments - £226.56 on 29 September 2017 and the same amount again on 
31 October 2017. The balance had reduced to £3,624.88 at that point. This debt was sold to 
a third party in or around May 2018.
Mrs H appears to have complained to Loans 2 Go about the affordability of those loans in 
June 2019 as we have received a copy of the final response letter (FRL) from Loans 2 Go 
dated 8 July 2019. I have seen from loan account notes that Loans 2 Go did write to the third 
party on 27 June 2019 to say it had received a complaint from Mrs H and asking for the 
account to be on hold while that was being dealt with it. 
Loans 2 Go did not uphold her complaint on affordability and addressed some points relating 
to interest charged and that it was frontloaded. It said that the loan agreements would have 
been given to Mrs H to read and sign before any money was transferred over. 
Mrs H has explained that she did not submit that complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service within the six months of that FRL dated July 2019. Mrs H has confirmed that the 
current complaint is not about affordability and that she had sent to us the earlier affordability 
complaint as background information. 
Mrs H in her current complaint letter to Loans 2 Go dated 1 March 2021 said, amongst other 
things:
I feel the loan you provided meets the FCA's criteria for HCSTC and as such, 
I should not have been charged interest that totalled more than 100% of the amount 
borrowed. 
She noted that the loan had been sold to a third party and asked loans 2 Go that no further 
action be taken while the complaint was being dealt with. Mrs H also said: 
Yet you have now sold the debt and I am being threatened with legal action from 
[third party] for an outstanding balance of £3564.88. The amount of interest on this 
credit agreement is extremely excessive.
The current Loans 2 Go FRL dated 24 March 2021 has been sent to us and in it Loans 2 Go 
explained the situation surrounding the loan interest and that the loan was applied for in 
person at a branch, and that the agreement would have had to have been read and signed 
by Mrs H before any funds would have been released to her. It referred to the 14 days 
cooling-off period. So, Loans 2 Go did not uphold her complaint. 
Mrs H did refer this second complaint  about the interest rates  to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in August 2021 and it was actioned in December 2021.  
In her complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman Service she has said
I started to make payments to [third party] but the outstanding balance is 3.5 times 
more than i borrowed even after paying £295 over the original amount borrowed and 
I feel this is grossly overstated. I have been affected not only financially but also 
mentally as the threatening and harassing manner that this has been dealt with has 
been awful and caused more strain on my already complex mental health issues.   
Mrs H seems also to have made a complaint to the third party which owns the loan now but 
I have no details about that complaint other than Mrs Hs statement that this complaint was  
not upheld either. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Hs complaint in July 2022 and did not consider that it 
was one she could uphold. Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review it.
Mrs H raised some additional points since our adjudicators view was sent to her and these 
are summarised here:
- Mrs H said that Loans 2 Go had fudged her affordability to pass its checks and that 
it did not carry out proper checks
-I do not feel they acted fairly with their fees, affordability checks and the way they 
filled out the forms on my behalf and I would like to take this further for investigation.
-They have been threatening, mocked me and completely underhand with all of their 
behaviour
- Loans 2 Go was aware of her mental health issues and still behaved in the way they 
did. 
-Theyre trying to ruin my life threatening to ask my employer to take money from my 
account and tell them about my debt.
Our adjudicator issued a second view in August 2022 in which she explained again that the 
interest rates were a matter for the lending business, and that issues surrounding 
affordability could not be considered as part of this complaint. Those points had been dealt 
with in her 2019 complaint  the complaint which had not been referred to us. In December 2022 Mrs H informed us that she was receiving threatening letters. Our 
adjudicator wrote to Loans 2 Go to say that the complaint was waiting for an ombudsman to 
review it and so she asked for any further letters not to be sent until resolution of the 
complaint. It is unclear whether these letters were from Loans 2 Go or from the third party. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What this decision does not cover 
So that Mrs H can be clear I am outlining here what this decision does not cover. 
Any elements of the lending decisions from 2017 are not going to be addressed here as that 
complaint was covered in the FRL dated July 2019 and has not been referred here. And so, 
it is outside our jurisdiction. Mrs H received that view earlier this year about her affordability 
complaint being outside our jurisdiction. She confirmed that this current complaint was not 
about the affordability of the loans. 
I note that Mrs H has raised matters relating to the alleged lack of checks and that Loans 2 
Go did not look at her bank account statements in 2017 and did not discover her gambling 
issues before it approved her loans. But all of those concerns related to the complaint which 
was never referred to us and so none of these issues will be looked at by me.
I make it clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service does not offer advice. We are an 
impartial, alternative dispute resolution service and as such although I can see that Mrs H 
has recently asked for advice about pending legal action. Mrs H may wish to seek 
assistance from a different body  for instance one of the debt advice charities or a free 
advice service or a lawyer. So, nothing in this decision will relate to the offering of advice.
I am sorry to hear that Mrs H says that Loans 2 Go has acted poorly towards her during the 
time she was its customer. And as I know that she took the loans in 2017 and the loan was 
sold to a third party in May 2018 it seems that she would have been referring to that period. 
In the FRL dated March 2021 there is no mention of that element and so if Mrs H wants this 
investigated then she needs to have given Loans 2 Go a chance to explain. It has not done 
that and so I am not able to address those points either.
Other matters which relate to alleged poor behaviour and the method of pursuing a debt 
(such as contacting her employer) appear to relate to the actions of a third party as it is that 
party which owns the debt now and has done for some time. As this complaint relates to 
Loans 2 Go I am not able to address any alleged actions of that third party as it is not the 
complaint respondent. 
My finding on the complaint 
Our adjudicator is correct  the lending business can set its own commercial terms which 
would include interest rates and as such that is not a matter with which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service gets involved.
I am familiar with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) definition of High Cost Short Term 
Credit (HCSTC) and the regulations relating to the cost cap of 100% of the original loan. As 
these loan agreements Mrs H took with Loans 2 Go were for more than 12 months then the cost cap does not apply. 
I have reviewed the copy loan agreements I have been sent and I do see that they clearly 
set out the amount to be borrowed, the terms and the interest rates and the total to repay. 
And I can see that these have been signed. I do not accept that these were hidden 
elements.
And each loan agreement did contain the 14 days cooling off period provisions and so Mrs H 
had the legal right to withdraw or cancel the credit agreement if she wanted if she had 
changed her mind. 
In the circumstances I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman