DRN-2057234
The complaint 
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him three payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policies.
What happened
Mr H took out monthly-premium PPI with each of three personal loans taken out respectively 
in 1994, 1995 and 1997. Mr H says that he wasnt aware that he had been sold the 
insurance. He says that PPI was never discussed. And he says that this lack of awareness is 
reinforced because he didnt make a claim following an accident in 2000, at a time when the 
last policy was still in force. 
Nationwide didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policies, but it did offer Mr H some redress 
for some administrative errors.
Because the policy sales were so long ago, neither Mr H nor Nationwide has been able to 
send us copies of the relevant paperwork or give us much detail of how the policy was sold. 
Further, although Nationwide has told us that the second and third loans were secured 
loans, it is unable to confirm which type of loan the first loan was.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr H disagreed 
with this view the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in making my decision. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I set out my reasons below.
Nationwide ought to have made it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional. But Nationwide no 
longer has a record of whether the policy was sold by post, over the phone or during a 
meeting. Nor does it have a copy of Mr Hs loan agreement or the application forms for either 
the loan or the policy, signed by him. And understandably, because of the time that has 
passed, Mr H doesnt recall much detail about the sales. This means that I know very little 
about how the PPI was presented to Mr H. I therefore have to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on the limited information that I do have, including what I 
know about the way Nationwide usually sold PPI around that time. 
Although I cant be sure that I have samples of the documents that were used in the sales to 
Mr H, I have looked at several application forms and / or policies that were in use both 
before and after the dates of the sales. (Both for secured and unsecured loans.) These refer 
to PPI being optional and / or show the cost of the PPI separately and / or require the 
applicant to tick a box if they want to take PPI. I have no reason to assume that the actual 
documentation used for Mr Hs sales would have varied from these in such a manner so as 
to lead me to conclude that Nationwide didnt make it clear to Mr H either that the policies 
were optional, or that they were separate products from the loans. In addition, Nationwide 
has told us that for each loan Mr H would have had to sign separate direct debits  one for 
the loan repayment and the other for the PPI premium. From this I conclude that it is more 
than likely that Mr H was aware, at the time of the sales, that he had taken PPI with each of 
the three loans.
Nationwide has said that it sold the PPI on a non-advised basis. And Mr H has said that he 
didnt know he had the policies as he doesnt recollect PPI being discussed at all. But even if 
Nationwide didnt specifically recommend to Mr H that he should take out the policies, it still 
had to give Mr H clear, fair and not misleading information about them so that he could 
decide for himself if they were right for him. 
I think that the PPI was suitable for Mr H. I say this because, based on the policies Ive seen, 
and taking into account what I know about Mr Hs circumstances at the times of the sales:
Mr H was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Mr H wasnt likely to have been caught by the policies main limitations and restrictions  
such as those affecting someone who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr H says that he was entitled to up to six months full and six months half pay from his 
employment had he been off work because of illness or accident. And that he had no 
savings or other insurance to help him make his monthly loan payments. 
(Notwithstanding this I note he says that he used savings to make his loan repayments 
when he had his accident. But I have no details of how much his savings were and 
whether they were available at the time of the three sales.) But, following a successful 
claim, the PPI would likely have paid the monthly payments due under the loan 
agreement, (including the PPI premiums), for up to 12 months had Mr H been off work 
because he had been made voluntarily redundant. And the payments would likely have 
been made for up to at least 24 months, if hed been unable to work because of accident 
or sickness. These payments would have been made on top of any sick pay or 
redundancy payment Mr H would have received. So, I think that the policy could have 
been of use to Mr H. I say this particularly bearing in mind that at least two of the loans 
were secured loans. And the consequences of Mr H being unable to make his loan 
repayments on these could have been very serious;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr H couldnt afford the policy premiums at the 
time of the sales. And in any event, if his circumstances had changed and he later 
thought that the PPI was unaffordable, he could have cancelled the policies at any time 
without further cost.
Because there is so little information, I dont know what Nationwide told Mr H during the 
sales. Its possible that it didnt tell him everything that it ought to have so that he could make 
informed decisions. But, as Ive concluded above that the policies were more likely than not 
suitable for him, I dont think that better information would have changed his mind and 
stopped him taking the PPI. This means that Mr H hasnt lost out because of anything that 
Nationwide may have failed to do or done wrong during the sales. So, theres nothing I 
require it to put right.
As Ive said above, Ive considered everything Mr H has told us, including his failure to make 
a claim after an accident. I dont find that the fact that Mr H didnt remember that he had PPI some time after he took out the last policy necessarily means that he had never been made 
aware that he had it. So, this and his other points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman