DRN-3456696
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) blocked and closed his 
accounts, without giving advance notice and without explaining why. 
What happened
Mr T told our service NatWest blocked his personal and savings accounts on 14 September 
2020. He says the accounts were then closed without notice and that he didnt get access to 
the funds in the accounts (£2,549.24) until 5 January 2021.
NatWest says it gave Mr T 7 days notice of the closures and explained it received a 
completed funds release form from Mr T on 12 October 2020 and made the funds available 
on 18 December 2020. It says it was entitled to block and close Mr Ts accounts and it 
rejected his complaint.
Our investigator found NatWest had acted fairly in blocking and closing the accounts, but 
she felt it could have released the funds retained more quickly. After speaking with our 
investigator, NatWest agreed to offer Mr T £100 in compensation, which our investigator felt 
was a fair offer.
Mr T didnt agree though. He said this all happened during the coronavirus pandemic, when 
it was much more difficult to open new bank accounts. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
A bank doesnt always have to give reasons for its decision to close an account. And, having 
considered the information NatWest has provided, Im satisfied it acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ts accounts when it closed his accounts. 
NatWest has provided our service with a copy of the letter it issued, and Im satisfied it did 
write to Mr T with notice that his account would close in 7 days. It might be that Mr T didnt 
receive the notice, but Im satisfied NatWest correctly dispatched the letter and I dont hold it 
responsible for a failure for the letter to be delivered, if thats what happened. And in any 
event, Im satisfied that NatWest would have been entitled to close the accounts with no 
notice, so even if it didnt send a letter, I wouldnt uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint.
Access to funds 
Before a bank releases funds held in a customers account, its entitled to carry out checks to 
ensure its complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And banks will follow their 
internal procedures before they release funds.
NatWest has explained why there was a delay in releasing the funds, but Im not persuaded 
it couldnt have acted more quickly. It received Mr Ts signed funds release form on 12 
October 2020, but delayed until 18 December 2020 before releasing the funds. NatWest 
offered £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused by the delay, and I accept that is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr T experienced as a result of not having access to 
his funds during that time. 
I recognise Mr T wants increased compensation because of the impact of the closure, but as 
Ive said above, I dont think NatWest treated Mr T unfairly by closing his account in the 
manner it did, because it was entitled to do so. So I wont ask it to compensate Mr T for any 
loss or inconvenience he experienced as a result of the closure, only as a result of the delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank PLC must pay Mr T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman