DRN-3684029
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a Barclaycard (Barclaycard) issued a default 
notice in connection with his credit card, owing to non-payment, after advising him there was 
a balance on his account. 
Mr B says Barclaycard told him a card had been issued and implied there had been 
fraudulent transactions. And that Barclaycard failed to update his address, which resulted in 
post being sent to his previous address.
What happened
Our investigator set out the history of this matter in detail in his view, and in his follow-up 
reply to Mr B, so I wont repeat the facts in the same detail here. However, Ive summarised 
what happened below.
Mr B held a credit card with Barclaycard that was last used in 2009. Mr B fell into arrears and 
entered into a debt management plan which continued until March 2021, when Mr B stopped 
making payments due to his personal circumstances. On 3 August 2021, Barclaycard issued 
a default notice saying it had written to Mr B requesting payment, and advising Mr B that he 
was in breach of the terms of his agreement with Barclaycard as a result of missing 
payments.
Mr B only received the default letter after returning to his former address, because 
Barclaycard didnt have Mr Bs up to date address on its file. He complained to Barclaycard 
but it didnt uphold his complaint. It issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint on 8 
September 2021, in which it said the outstanding balance dated back to 2009 (the 
implication being there were no fraudulent transactions on his account) and that it had 
registered the default on Mr Bs account correctly.
Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said there were no transactions on Mr Bs card since 2009 and 
found Mr B hadnt updated his address with Barclaycard after he moved. He said 
Barclaycard had acted fairly in recording a mark on Mr Bs credit file, given it had forewarned 
him it would do so in its letter of 3 August 2021.
Mr B said there were further calls that Barclaycard hadnt provided our service, so our 
investigator asked Barclaycard to carry out a further search. That revealed two further call 
recordings, but neither changed our investigators outcome. Because no agreement could be 
reached, Mr B asked an ombudsman to reconsider the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen statements showing the activity on Mr Bs account, and I can see this is a historic 
debt. The last time the card was used to make a payment was on 20 July 2009. And the 
statements show the account balance was £2,229 in December 2015. Since then, the 
balance has steadily decreased as payments have been made, although payments sopped 
after March 2021.
Barclays wrote to Mr B, saying he needed to make payments against his account, but Mr B 
says he didnt receive any letters until the end of June 2021, because he had moved 
address. He only found out Barclaycard were writing to him when he returned to his old 
address in June 2021. 
Mr B made several calls to Barclaycard to try to discuss the matter and our investigator has 
set out details of the call recordings our service has been sent, so I wont repeat the same at 
length. But among other things, he said he didnt think there was a balance on his account, 
that he doesnt remember making the last payment against his balance in March 2021, and 
that he hadnt received Barclaycards letters because he had moved house.
Having looked at everything the parties have sent me, Im satisfied there were no new 
transactions on Mr Bs account and that his balance correctly represented the amount he 
owed. Mr B was concerned that a new card had been issued, leading to fraudulent activity 
on his account, but I havent seen any evidence to show that happened. And Barclaycard 
checked and told Mr B there were no new transactions on his account, and that there hadnt 
been for several years.
Because Mr B still owed money on his account, he was obliged to keep making minimum 
payments. Mr B says he stopped making payments in March 2021, and I can see 
Barclaycard wrote to him to tell him he had missed payments. Mr B didnt reinstate his 
payments, so Barclaycard defaulted him and recorded the default against his credit file.
Mr B says he didnt receive the chasing letters from Barclaycard telling him he had missed 
payments, and when he called Barclaycard he said he thought the debt had been settled. As 
Ive set out above, Im satisfied the debt was still due and was correctly recorded when 
Barclaycard defaulted Mr B. And I havent seen evidence to show Mr B had contacted 
Barclaycard to confirm his new address when he moved.
Ive listened to call recordings where Mr B told Barclaycard that he had moved address, but 
these were all made after he had missed payments. And after Mr B said he had moved, he 
went on to focus on the issue of the debt instead. Indeed, on one phone call, the call handler 
said she would update his address, but Mr B instead said he wanted to talk about the debt 
and deal with the address at the end of the call. Mr B was then put through to a different 
department twice and ultimately ended the call because he had another call he needed to 
take.
However, I dont think the matter of whether or not Mr B gave Barclaycard his new address 
in or after June 2021 is a key issue. Mr B knew Barclaycard had said he owed money on his 
account, he had seen the letter demanding payment, but he didnt make any payments until 
24 December 2021, when he paid £50, and 11 February 2022, when he paid the balance of 
£508.85 in full. Which means he didnt make payments against his account between March 
2021 and December 2021. 
Barclaycard registered a mark against Mr Bs credit file on 31 August 2021, at which point Mr 
B had missed several payments. I appreciate he claimed he had paid the balance off, and 
that he thought some of the payments on the card might have been fraudulent, but I dont 
think either of those were good enough reasons not to pay the debt he owed. Barclaycard 
told him there had been no activity on his account for many years, and I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that it was reasonable for Mr B to proceed on the basis that the 
debt was not genuine.Barclaycard has a responsibility to correctly report data in connection with missed payments. 
And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it treated Mr B unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman