DRN-3563885
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by Dobson & Hodge Limited (D&H) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ks employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr K approached D&H in September 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was thinking about retiring in the not-too-distant future and he wanted advice on how best to 
do this. He was also concerned about the future of the DB scheme. 
D&H completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was 54, married and employed earning around £43,000 per year. 
Mr and Mrs K owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. They held around 
£3,000 in cash savings.
D&H also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, which it said was three to four 
out of ten or cautious to moderate. 
In respect of Mr Ks pension arrangements, he had received a number of cash equivalent 
transfer values (CETV) over time from the BSPS, the latest one being in October 2017. This 
showed that he had around 36 and a half years service. He was entitled to a pension of 
about £26,000 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about £636,650. Mr K had 
also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. The fact find noted that 
he and his employer were contributing a total of 12% of his salary into this. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
But on 11 October 2017, D&H advised Mr K to transfer his pension benefits into a self- 
invested personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds that met his attitude 
to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr K was 
indenting to retire early, either at his age 55, or not very much later. Because of this he 
wanted greater flexibility about how he could withdraw his pension benefits, for example he 
could take a higher amount earlier on and a lower amount when his state pension became 
payable. And he wanted access to the tax-free cash so he could repay his mortgage and 
spend some money on home improvements, a car purchase and set up an emergency fund. 
Mr K fully retired at age 57 in 2019. He had used cash lump sums from his pension to repay 
his mortgage and so on as above. And he started to take a regular income of £1,800 a 
month from April that year.   
Mr K complained in 2021 to D&H about the suitability of the transfer advice. He had received 
a letter from the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that said that the 
advice he was given to transfer may not have been right for him. He thought this may be the 
case for him.  
D&H didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that the transfer of his scheme to a drawdown 
arrangement met his needs at the time. It felt that the advice was appropriate for Mr K. 
Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that D&H pay compensation. He thought the transfer was poor 
value for money and Mr K could have met his needs by remaining the DB scheme, even if it 
moved to the PPF. He thought that Mr K should receive compensation of £300 for the 
distress the poor advice caused him. 
D&H disagreed, saying as Mr K wanted to retire early the transfer was in his best interests. 
The DB scheme wouldnt have met his needs for income and tax-free cash at the age he 
wanted to retire. 
There was some further correspondence about Mr Ks circumstances in which it was 
established that Mr K had retired at his age 57. Our Investigator considered this and 
informed both parties that that whilst his opinion about suitability of the DB transfer was 
unchanged, he thought that the compensation should be calculated assuming that Mr K had 
retired at age 57. And that the most suitable advice would have been for him to move to the 
PPF, as this provided the greatest benefits where early retirement was being considered, 
this clearly was the case here.  
Moving forward, in 2022, D&H performed a loss assessment that showed that Mr K hadnt 
suffered a loss. D&H provided details about this, but our Investigator wasnt fully persuaded 
that it was performed correctly. In particular it used a retirement age of 65, rather than 57 
and I understand that it used the BSPS2 as a comparator rather than the PPF. So, they 
thought the loss assessment may not be entirely correct. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. And D&H doesnt really agree 
that the complaint should be upheld. So, both parties were informed that an ombudsman 
would consider the complaint in due course. 
After this the FCA has developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to award 
compensation based on this. As far as I can see D&H hasnt performed a revised loss 
assessment using this calculator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D&H's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D&H should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ks best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why. 
D&H was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This calculated the critical yield which was how much Mr Ks pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. It showed this was 9.42% to match the full pension hed have been entitled 
to under the scheme at age 65. The TVAS didnt show the critical yields to age 55 as 
this was too close to Mr Ks age, and so the report said they were likely to be above 
50%. And calculations werent shown for his age 57 either. These were also likely to 
be much higher than the calculated yield at Mr Ks age 65.  
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.71% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4.07%. Again, earlier retirement amounts werent calculated.
Despite the fact it was known by the point D&H instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr K, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And D&H didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed have 
been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it shouldve 
done. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, 
was 4.1% to his age 65. It was also 3.1% to his age 57, and 2.1% to his age 55. 
Given this, and Mr Ks recorded attitude to risk, and the regulators low and middle 
projection rates of 2% and 5%, I think Mr K was always likely to receive pension 
benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under 
the BSPS2 or the PPF. I can accept that if Mr K moved to the PPF and took the 
maximum amount of tax-free cash then the DB transfer may have provided similar 
benefits. But this isnt enough to justify the transfer as Mr K would be taking on the 
risk of the personal pension providing lower benefits when he didnt need to do. And I 
think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF offered if he retired early. 
And this was recognised at the time of sale when the suitability report said that I 
would suggest that our recommended portfolio is unlikely to achieve the Critical Yield 
and therefore, on that basis, you are likely to receive less income from a private 
pension than you would otherwise receive from the BSPS. And gave warnings that 
he may not be able to secure the same, or same type of income, as the DB scheme 
would have provided.
D&H has said that Mr K wanted to access tax-free cash from his pension at between 
his ages 55 and 57. Its fair to say the advice was based on this and was precipitated 
by Mr Ks realising that the transfer value was significant and had recently increased. 
The adviser stated that Mr K had previously considered retiring at 57, but following 
an increased transfer value for his occupational pension scheme benefits, he was 
now thinking about retiring at 55.
But it wasnt D&Hs role just to put in place what Mr K mightve thought he wanted. Its 
role was to advise him on what was in his best interests. And even if Mr K indicated 
this was something he was considering, I dont think this meant a transfer was in his 
best interests.
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs K were paying a significant amount to repay some 
debts they had. Their mortgage repayment was £1,000 a month and they were also 
making payments of £1,300 a month to a debt management plan. So, they felt they 
were living off an effective income of £22,000 a year  once these debts were 
accounted for. And so, they felt that if their debts were repaid this amount would be 
enough for them. Although they did feel they could get by with less and they wanted 
between £1,000 and £1,800 a month. And I note that Mr K went on to start 
withdrawals of £1,800 a month at his age 57. 
Mr K was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income to withdraw the sums he 
wanted and make the transfer. And there was a significant risk that he would have 
lower retirement benefits because of this. So, it wouldnt be in his best interests if he 
could have met his aims through the DB scheme. 
Looking at Mr Ks age 65. Its not clear if a full analysis was done in respect of the DB 
benefits Mr K could take at this age. For example, there is no split of income and tax-
free cash in the TVAS. The TVAS does show that Mr K would receive an annual 
pension of £33,599 from the BSPS. But its a reasonable assumption, from what I 
know about the BSPS2 scheme, that even if Mr K took the maximum amount of tax-
free cash, which likely would be over £100,000, then the income he would receive 
would be over £22,000. And Mr and Mrs K would be in receipt of their state pensions 
a few years after this. And it seems likely that his debts would be much reduced at 65 in any event. So, I dont think there is much doubt that the DB scheme would provide 
the cash and income that Mr and Mrs K wanted at Mr Ks age 65.
Ive also looked to see if Mr K could have met his aims from the DB scheme if he 
retired early. I think its fair whilst there was a detailed analysis about the cashflow 
situation from the personal pension I dont think the analysis about what Mr K could 
receive from the DB scheme was similarly robust. There was no information about 
what he could receive from the BSPS2 or the PPF at his age 57 which was important 
here as this was one of his likely retirement ages. The comparisons at his age 55 
dont show how much tax-free cash he could take and how this would reduce the 
income payable from the BSPS, although they did from the PPF. The advice was 
based on Mr K retiring early but it concentrated on how the transfer could facilitate 
this, rather than how the DB scheme could. And I think this was a significant failing. 
The TVAS shows that if Mr K moved to the PPF he could receive a lump sum of 
£108,510 and an annual pension of £16,340 at 55. This is more than the minimum he 
said he needed. And there is an early retirement quote that was produced in July 
2017 (Im assuming this would be from his age 55) that shows that Mr K could 
receive an annual pension of about £18,300 or a pension of about £13,000 and a tax-
free lump sum of £86,500. Again, this is more than the minimum he wanted.  
So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr K could have met his aims if he took early 
retirement from the DB scheme. Particularly if he was able to wait until age 57. When 
the amounts he could receive were higher and his debts would be lower. 
I accept that the income he could receive from the scheme at an earlier time may be 
less than he ideally wanted, that is closer to his minimum of £12,000 a year rather 
than his target of £22,000, but it still met his aims. Mr K should have been given 
enough information to allow him to decide how he wanted to proceed given this, and I 
dont think he was. 
Whilst Mr Ks aim for repaying his debt was clearly important to him. I dont think that 
D&H should have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant 
potential overall cost, without fully exploring any alternatives he could have used to 
meet these aims. I dont think it did this here. 
Overall, the pensions under the BSPS2 or PPF were guaranteed. And appear to 
have been an appropriate way to meet Mr Ks income needs in retirement  which is 
the primary purpose of a pension. I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility in this 
way was in his best interests.
D&H said Mr K was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer offered to his 
family by way of alternative death benefits. And Mr K says that he was told the fund 
value could be lost if he died before the pension became payable, which he didnt 
want. 
But the priority here was to advise Mr K about what was best for his retirement. And 
the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to his wife in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr K drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided a legacy if this is what Mr K wanted. 
And if Mr K had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, D&H couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence 
D&H did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr K. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
I think any desire for control Mr K may have had about how his pension was invested 
was overstated. I cant see that he had interest in or the knowledge to be able to 
manage his pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been 
given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension, which 
he did make use of. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr K  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr K may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was D&Hs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF provided Mr K with guaranteed 
income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr K was unlikely to improve on 
these benefits by transferring, particularly if he retired very early as he did intend to. I 
think that in this situation the PPF was likely to provide the highest guaranteed 
benefits. I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in 
his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ks best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr K wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr K received from D&H was 
unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that D&H also pay Mr K £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr K said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr K has been caused concern in relation 
to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the company 
he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr K, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF, if 
suitable advice had been given. 
D&H must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. D&H should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr K and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what D&H based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr K had concrete plans to retire at between the ages 55 and 57 and he did retire 
at age 57. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at age 57.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ks 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, D&H should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr K accepts D&Hs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, D&H may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that Mr K would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed 
according to Mr Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
D&H should also pay Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice caused 
him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Dobson & Hodge 
Limited to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Dobson & Hodge Limited pays Mr K the balance.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Dobson & Hodge 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman