DRN-4328649
The complaint
Mr W complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr W says he was looking for a property to rent. He says he found one he 
liked on a social media marketplace, contacted the landlord and was shown around the 
property via a video call. He then made a series of payments from his Revolut account to 
account details the landlord gave him, in order to secure the property. But when he then 
went to move into the property, there was no property at the address he was given and so 
he contacted Revolut and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Revolut investigated but said there were no signs of unauthorised login attempts or 
suspicious activity on Mr Ws account. And it said Mr W was shown a warning when setting 
up the first payment, which he acknowledged. It didnt think there was evidence of 
unauthorised or fraudulent activity on Mr Ws account, so didnt agree to refund the money 
he had lost. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said that Mr W had given significantly 
different versions of what happened to our service and Revolut, and that he hadnt provided 
clear evidence that a scam had taken place. So they didnt think it would be fair to require 
Revolut to refund the payments Mr W had made. Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to refund the payments made 
out of Mr Ws account. Ill explain why below.
Mr W has given our service and Revolut significantly different explanations of what 
happened when these payments were made  including initially saying the payments were 
made after his phone was stolen, then saying the payments were made by him due to 
threats by the landlord, and then saying he made the payments but the property he thought 
he was paying for didnt exist.
And while Mr W has now accepted that what he initially told Revolut about what had 
happened was incorrect, he hasnt sent us clear evidence to support what he is now saying 
happened. None of the evidence hes sent us shows that the payments he made were for a 
deposit or maintenance on a property. He hasnt sent us anything to show that he was told 
he had to pay upfront in order to secure the property or to reduce the amount of rent he 
would pay. And we havent seen any evidence to show that the property wasnt provided to 
him.
So I dont think we have enough evidence to say that Mr W has been the victim of a scam 
here. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to refund the payments made 
from his account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman