DRN-1818925
 
The complaint
 Mr U applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc to buy a new 
investment property. Hes unhappy that the surveyor said a structural engineers report was 
needed, which cost him £600.
What happened
Mr U opted for the basic valuation for mortgage purposes. 
The surveyor completed his report on 10 December 2018 and in that he said there was 
evidence of structural movement and a detailed inspection was needed. He also said the 
property required significant improvement/repair and was not in a lettable condition.
A structural engineer visited the property and provided a report on 7 March 2019. In that it 
was noted that the property had recently been redecorated, but there were cracks of varying 
degrees in some of the rooms, and on the exterior of the property. The report concluded that 
the structural defects were  in the writers opinion  historical and not significant. One crack 
was noted to be relatively severe and remedial action was recommended for that, but other 
than that the property was deemed to be fine.
The report was sent to the surveyor and on 14 March 2019 he said the property was suitable 
for mortgage purposes. A mortgage offer was produced on 8 April 2019, but the property 
purchase didnt complete for other reasons that I dont need to mention here as theyre the 
subject of a separate complaint.
Mr U complained to NatWest. It rejected the complaint, saying the valuation was carried out 
by a fully qualified surveyor, and hed said the further report was needed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr U didnt agree and so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr U wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
Mr U responded to our investigator, saying (I quote):
I totally disagree with everything you have said. I should of known that you would take 
their side as the incompetence shown by both natwest and the fsa is outrageous. You are 
there to help people when they have been wronged and I certainly have been by the 
natwest. I do not accept what your terrible decision has found!! So what is your next step 
on your flawed investigation??
Were not the FSA; that organisation ceased to exist many years ago when it was 
succeeded as the industry regulator by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We are the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, and we are impartial between, and independent of, 
consumers and businesses. Our role is to look at individual complaints independently to 
decide whats fair and reasonable, keeping in mind any relevant rules and regulations that 
may be in place. We cant hold a business liable for the acts or omissions of another 
business, and we only order something be done (such as a refund of the valuation and 
structural engineers fees) if the business complained about has done something wrong. Its 
not a case of taking sides, but the nature of our role means often one party will be 
disappointed in the outcome.
The investigators assessment of the complaint wasnt flawed. Unfortunately, the crux of 
what Mr U is complaining about relates to the opinion of the surveyor. It was the surveyor 
that said a structural engineers report was needed.
NatWest doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). 
NatWest is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). The valuation was 
carried out by an independent third-party surveying firm so all I can consider against 
NatWest is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and having 
considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I cant comment on whether the surveyor should have done more himself, or whether he 
should have said a structural engineers report was needed, as they would be complaints 
against the third-party surveying firm, and theyre not in our jurisdiction. This means Ive no 
power to consider such complaints. NatWest instructed a suitably qualified surveyor and it 
was entitled to rely on the findings of that surveyor; thats all NatWest was required to do.
The surveyor visited the property and signed off his report on the same day; 10 December 
2018. From then Mr U was on notice the structural engineers report was needed. That 
report wasnt signed off until 7 March 2019 and Mr U then sent it onto NatWest. The original 
surveyor reviewed the structural engineers report and reported back to NatWest on 
14 March 2019 that the property was suitable security. Its clear from this that any delays 
werent down to NatWest so I cant hold it liable for how long it the property took to be 
approved. 
Having considered everything, there are no grounds for me to order NatWest refund the 
original valuation fee as that fee was spent when the surveyor undertook the initial valuation 
of the property in December 2018. The surveyor had to be paid, and theres no reason why 
NatWest should be out of pocket for that, as it didnt do anything wrong. There are also no 
grounds for me to order NatWest to pay for the structural engineers report Mr U obtained. It 
was his choice to carry on at that time with the purchase of the property that needed the 
report, and NatWest couldnt approve the mortgage without the report. NatWest did nothing 
wrong in following the professional advice of the surveyor when he said the structural 
engineers report was needed
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman