DRN-2511302
The complaint
Mrs O complains that she was misled about the terms of a hire purchase agreement she 
entered into with Black Horse Limited.
What happened
In March 2016 Mrs O entered into a 48-month hire purchase agreement under which Black
Horse was to provide her with a brand-new car.
There were however problems with the car, which couldnt be repaired. Black Horse agreed
therefore to provide a replacement. Mrs O says that she was told that the replacement car
would be provided on the same terms as the original  and that the hire purchase period
would end on the same date. She signed an agreement for the replacement car.
Mrs O says she didnt realise until March 2020  that is, four years after she entered into the
first agreement  that the second agreement was in fact a new hire purchase agreement
which was due to run until September 2020. She says she was misled about that by the
dealership; she thought she should be able to end the agreement on the fourth anniversary
of the first agreement.
Mrs O referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He
accepted what Mrs O had said about her conversations with the dealership and explained
why Black Horse was responsible for what the dealership had said about the second
agreement. He didnt think it was clear on the face of the second agreement when it would
end. He concluded that Mrs O should be able to return the car on or close to the end date of
the original agreement.
Mrs O accepted the investigators conclusions, but Black Horse didnt respond to them (or
implement them). 
Because Black Horse hadnt responded to the investigators recommendations, I reviewed 
the case and issued a provisional decision; I have copied the main findings below. By the 
time I issued my provisional decision, Mrs O had returned the second car.
My provisional findings
Ill deal first with a procedural issue. Black Horse hasnt commented on the investigators
recommendations or asked that an ombudsman review them. It is however unfair on Mrs O
that the case be left as it is. The appropriate way to move things forward is, in my view, to
progress it so it can be resolved between the parties or determined by an ombudsman,
should either party request that. In reviewing the complaint, however, Im not limited to
considering the parties response to the investigators view; on the contrary, if a
determination is necessary, Im required to consider all the circumstances.
Ive done that here, but Im likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the
investigator. So that both parties  but in particular Mrs O  can submit further comments
before a reach a final decision, therefore, Im issuing this provisional decision.
When the car provided under the first agreement was found not to be of satisfactory quality,
Mrs O had a choice about how Black Horse should resolve that problem. She agreed with
Black Horse that it could provide a replacement. Because the car was brand-new, it was
possible to find a near-identical model, in a way which probably wouldnt have been possible
had the car been a used one.
However, the original car had been provided under a hire purchase agreement. So, it wasnt
possible simply to swap one car for another, since the original car was linked to that
agreement.
Mrs O says she was led to believe however that this is what would happen. I think it likely
that she was told in fairly general terms that the second agreement she signed was in effect
the same as the first. I dont believe however that she was told that it was exactly the same. I
think it likely too that she was told the hire period would be the same  which she took to
mean it would end on the same date as the original agreement, when in fact it ended after
four years.
The investigator thought it wasnt clear from the second agreement when it ended, because
it didnt include an end date. But neither did the first agreement. In fact, the first said its
duration was 49 months, the second 48 months. The second agreement also said though
that the final repayment was due 48 months after the date of the agreement  23 September
2016. So, I think it was clear that the second agreement would run until 23 September 2020.
It seems unlikely to me that Mrs O was told the second agreement was exactly the same as
the first, if only because it very clearly wasnt  and the differences were apparent on a close
reading. The agreements were however very similar  for example, the interest rate was
unchanged and the model and make of car was unchanged. The main differences Ive
identified are:
The first car was registered in January 2016, the second in September 2016.
The mileage allowances were 40,833 and 40,000 respectively.
The cash price of the first car was £38,384, the second £36,280.
The deposit for the first car was £8,499, for the second £6,177.87.
The amount of credit under the first agreement was £29,849 and under the second 
agreement £30,102.13.
The total amount payable under the first agreement was £44,906.76, under the second 
£42,813.83.
Monthly payments were £389.12 and £389.68 respectively.
The guaranteed future value of the first car was £17,720, the second £18,311.
Some of those differences were arguably to Mrs Os advantage, some arguably to her
disadvantage. They were however very small, and both agreements provided Mrs O with a
brand-new car for a monthly payment which differed by only a few pence. Even if I took the
view, therefore, that Mrs O had been misled about the nature of the second agreement, its
not at all clear that shes suffered any loss as a result, or that she would have done anything
different if she had understood it. It may not have exactly replicated what she agreed to in
March [2016], but I think it did put her in substantially the same position as she had been. It
was in my view a fair solution to the problems that had arisen with the first car. 
In response to my provisional decision Black Horse said that it had nothing to add. Mrs O did 
not respond to it. I have therefore reviewed the case once more before issuing this final 
decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or submissions from either party, however, I see no 
reason to change my view from that set out in my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the provision of a replacement car on the terms set out in the second hire purchase 
agreement was a fair way of dealing with the problems that arose with the first car.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Black Horse Limited to do anything further to resolve 
Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman