DRN-1700598
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his business, T, that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and then 
closed his business accounts. He also says Barclays unfairly placed a Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He wants Barclays to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused him and his business.
What happened
Mr A had personal and business accounts with Barclays. This decision will focus on Mr As 
complaint regarding his business accounts. Mr As complaint about his personal accounts 
will be addressed in a separate decision.
On 23 October 2018, a payment of £5,900 was made into Mr As personal current account, 
which he spent the following day. On 24 October 2018, Barclays were contacted by another 
bank which said their customer hadnt authorised the payment of £5,900 into Mr As account 
and theyd been the victim of fraud.
Barclays decided to review Mr As accounts. Whilst it completed its review, Barclays 
restricted Mr As access to all his accounts. Following its review, Barclays decided to close 
Mr As accounts immediately. Barclays also recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr A.
Barclays didnt ask Mr A any questions about the payment of £5,900 before making the 
decision to close his accounts and apply the CIFAS marker. Mr A complained to the bank 
and explained that the money was paid into his account after hed sold a car which hed 
advertised. And he said he had no idea that the funds were fraudulent.
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed Mr As accounts and had 
completed the review within four days. And said it had closed Mr As accounts because he 
was using his personal account for business purposes. But after it had spoken to Mr A and 
found out more about the payment of £5,900 from him, Barclays agreed to remove the 
CIFAS marker.  
Mr A wasnt happy with the banks response. He said Barclays took too long to complete its 
review and release his money.  He says because of the CIFAS marker he had trouble 
opening accounts with other banks, all of which were closed soon after hed opened them, 
which caused a good deal of inconvenience to his business. 
He explained that although he was able to take card payments from customers, he wasnt 
able to access these funds until he managed to open a business account in early January 
2019. So, he wasnt able to pay for new stock and missed out on orders hed placed, which 
meant his business lost out on sales over the Christmas period. Hes also said that he fell 
into rent arrears on his shop premises. 
Mr A said because of Barclays actions his mental health and well-being suffered.  Hes 
explained that he had to visit his doctor because he felt so unwell due to the stress and 
anxiety of the situation. And he had to spend quite a bit of time trying to sort things out with the bank. He wants Barclays to pay compensation for the trouble, upset and financial losses 
hes suffered. 
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She thought Barclays was unfair when it 
applied the CIFAS marker. And said it hadnt carried out any investigation to make sure the 
marker was applied correctly. She also said Barclays shouldve given Mr A more notice 
when it closed his accounts. And that Barclays should pay Mr A £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused him. Barclays agreed. Mr A didnt. He said £300 compensation 
doesnt reflect that amount of anguish and upset hes been caused. He wants more money.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr A has said about Barclays failings and the level of compensation he 
believes he should be paid. But this service is not the banks regulator. Its not for me to fine 
a financial business, and the rewards I make are not intended to be a punishment. I look at 
the individual circumstances of a complaint and make an award that I think reflects the 
impact the banks mistake has had on its customer. 
Ill deal first of all with Barclays decision to restrict Mr As access to his accounts. All banks 
in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to review and sometimes block 
customers accounts. 
Barclays blocked Mr As access to his accounts while it investigated the concerns expressed 
to it by the other bank. Having looked at all the available information I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Barclays to have acted in the way it did. Barclays 
explained that this was its standard procedure and its in line with what most banks would do 
in the same situation. And it enabled Barclays to consider how best react to the report it had 
received. So, I cant say it has done anything wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr As 
accounts also permit Barclays to review an account.
Mr A has said Barclays took too long to complete its review.  Barclays started its review on 
24 October 2018. I can see that following this, Mr A contacted the bank and let them know 
that the block was causing his mental health to suffer. From looking at Barclays complaint 
notes, I can see Barclays reacted positively to what Mr A told them about how he was being 
affected and sped things up. It completed the review on 31 October 2018  which was within 
a week. I dont find this to be an unreasonable length of time. And Im satisfied that the bank 
completed its review in a timely manner.
CIFAS marker
Barclays says it applied the CIFAS marker because it received a report from another bank 
which said their customer didnt authorise the payment of £5,900 into Mr As account. So, 
Ive looked at whether Barclays were fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, 
the investigation it carried out. And what the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS principles say that members (such as Barclays) should only record information of the 
type recorded against Mr As name if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a financial crime has been committed and that the evidence is such that the matter could be reported to 
the police. 
CIFAS guidance also says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to 
meet the burden of proof set by CIFAS. I havent seen any evidence that Barclays contacted 
Mr A at the time and asked him for information about the payment of £5,900. Barclays didnt 
speak to Mr A until 14 November 2018, which was after it had applied the marker against his 
name. And it chose to rely solely on the report from the other bank to apply the marker, 
which it was entitled to do.
However, had Barclays spoken to Mr A before applying the marker, I think its unlikely they 
wouldve applied it as there was insufficient evidence to report the matter to the police. I say 
this because the payment was for a car Mr A had sold and theres no evidence Mr A knew 
hed been paid with fraudulent funds. So, I agree with the investigator that it was unfair of 
Barclays to apply the marker. 
After Barclays spoke to Mr A about the payment, it removed the marker. But due to the time 
that has now passed the bank cant say when this was done. Mr A also cant provide any 
information about when this is likely to have occurred. However, Mr A has provided evidence 
of other banks closing accounts hed opened between 6 and 9 November 2018, and that he 
managed to open another business account in early January 2019. Ive also kept in mind 
that it normally takes between 4 and 8 weeks for a marker to be removed. So, I think its 
likely that the CIFAS marker had been removed at the latest by January 2019. 
Mr A has written comprehensively about the impact of the CIFAS marker being recorded had 
on him and his business. I also note what Mr A says about how inconvenient and time 
consuming its been to sort this matter out. 
Mr A has provided evidence to show that after making at least four account applications with 
other banks, all the accounts were closed. Ive noted that one of the banks Mr A tried to 
open an account with, let him know about the CIFAS marker and how long it takes to be 
removed. Its standard procedure for banks to carry out checks following an application, 
which includes checks with credit reference agencies. So, I think its likely that the trouble 
Mr A experienced trying to open other bank accounts was because of the CIFAS marker 
Barclays recorded against him. And I accept that this wouldve caused Mr A and his 
business inconvenience.
Mr A has explained that although he was still able to run his business without a bank 
account and took cash and card payments from customers, he couldnt access the money in 
his merchant acquiring account because he didnt have an account for his provider to pay 
the money from card payments into. Mr A says as a result he wasnt able to pay for orders of 
stock he was expecting. And suppliers released his reserved stock to other shops. So, he 
says he missed out on being able to buy the best sellers for Christmas, which he says 
caused a loss to his business.
As Ive explained above its normally the role of this service to try and put a consumer back 
in the position, they wouldve been had the bank not made errors  in this case Barclays 
unfairly applied a CIFAS marker. Our investigator has asked Mr A for evidence of cancelled 
orders, loss of stock and profits. But Mr A hasnt been able to provide anything. So, whilst I 
sympathise with Mr As frustration with his stock supply, I dont agree that Barclays can be 
held responsible for any lack of profit or loss of stock. I say this because I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr A had any contracts of sales or orders in place. So, I cant say Mr A lost 
out.I then turn to Barclays decision to close Mr As business accounts. As the investigator 
explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide banking facilities to a customer. Unless there is a very good reason to do 
so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. The purpose of giving 
notice is to allow the account holder to make alternative banking arrangements. In this case, 
Barclays closed Mr As business accounts immediately.
Barclays has set out its reasons for closing Mr As accounts. In summary this was because 
Barclays made a commercial decision it no longer wanted Mr A as a customer. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained, in my opinion, none of the reasons Barclays have given 
meet the criteria set out in the terms and conditions to close the account without notice.
Under the terms and conditions, Barclays can close an account for any other reason. The 
terms say that Barclays would provide two-months notice. I think the reasons Barclays has 
provided for closing Mr As account fall under this category. So, Barclays shouldve given
Mr A two months notice before closing his account. This wouldve allowed Mr A to continue 
using his accounts until the CIFAS marker was removed, and hed managed to open another 
account  which he did in January 2019. So, Im satisfied Mr A was caused inconvenience 
by the immediate closure of his business accounts.
The only remaining matter for me to decide it how much compensation is fair. From what Mr 
A has said I dont doubt that the marker recorded by Barclays and immediate closure of his 
accounts has caused Mr As business inconvenience. And while I appreciate Mr A wont 
agree, having looked at all the evidence, I think £300 is a fair award. In making this award 
Ive noted that Mr A was able to open another account reasonably quickly and his business 
continued to trade. Ive also kept in mind that Mr A hasnt provided any evidence of his 
business losses or rental arrears. 
In summary, I think Barclays should pay Mr A £300 compensation because they didnt carry 
out sufficient checks before applying the CIFAS marker. And they should have given Mr A 
more notice when it closed his accounts.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint.  Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by paying Mr A £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things 
right by paying Mr A £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman