DRN-2478179
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave him 
inappropriate advice in 1994 regarding the transfer of some pension benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme to a pension plan with Royal London.
What happened
Mr B held deferred pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme. Hed joined 
that scheme in 1977 and left it in 1990. He received advice from Royal London in 1994 that 
suggested he should move those deferred benefits from the occupational scheme to a 
pension plan provided by Royal London. Following that advice Mr B did indeed transfer his 
deferred benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether 
some pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests 
of consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously 
been provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice 
to transfer benefits.
In September 1999 Royal London concluded a review on the advice it had given to Mr B. 
That review concluded that a transfer of Mr Bs deferred benefits hadnt been in his best 
interest. So, since it wasnt able to reinstate Mr Bs membership of the occupational 
scheme Royal London calculated the loss that Mr B had suffered using a formula laid 
down by the regulator. As a result of that calculation Royal London increased the pension 
funds that Mr B had invested by £9,772.13.
In 2020 Mr B with assistance from a claims management company (CMC) complained to 
Royal London about the advice hed been given about transferring his pension savings in 
1994. In response Royal London noted that it had paid compensation to Mr B in 1999 in 
line with the regulators requirements. So it didnt think it needed to do anything further in 
relation to the advice it had given in 1994.
Mr B didnt accept that outcome so brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. He agreed with Royal London that the redress 
that had been paid following the review in 1999 had been sufficient to correct the earlier 
mis-sale. So he didnt think Royal London needed to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
I dont need to consider whether the advice Mr B was given by Royal London in 1994 was 
suitable. In the review it conducted in 1999 Royal London concluded that Mr B would have 
been better off remaining a deferred member of the occupational pension scheme. So 
what I need to consider here is whether what Royal London did to put things right in 1999 
was sufficient.
The review that Royal London carried out was part of a large industry wide exercise 
supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases, including that 
of Mr B, it wasnt possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension 
schemes they had been incorrectly advised to leave. So the aim of the compensation that 
was calculated would have been to increase the value of the pension investments Mr B 
held with Royal London so that they would provide similar benefits to those hed have 
received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr B, there was a significant period left before their expected retirement 
date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary 
because of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess the potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated 
when the review was undertaken in 1999. So although Royal London increased the 
pension savings Mr B held, with the intention for them to match the benefits he would have 
received from the occupational scheme at retirement, circumstances have meant that this 
hasnt been the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-
selling and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and from everything Ive 
seen Royal London carried out the review of Mr Bs situation as it was required to. I do 
understand why Mr B might be unhappy with the methodology used and now feels the 
compensation that was paid at the time is insufficient. But it was the then regulators 
decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this 
service should now challenge or ignore.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr B. Even after 
the addition of the compensation Royal London has already paid, he will now be left with a 
pension that is significantly less than hed have received if hed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme.
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which compensation should 
be calculated when incorrect advice had been given in the years preceding the review in 
1999. That review was designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about 
the compensation to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. 
So it isnt reasonable for me to expect Royal London to pay more compensation than that it calculated at the time. I think the redress Royal London paid in 1999 was sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman