DRN-2099744
The complaint
Mr H complains that Fund Ourselves Limited (trading at the time as Welendus) lent
irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr H took out a single loan with Fund Ourselves Limited in October 2018. The loan was for 
£500, and was due to be repaid by four monthly instalments.
Mr H repaid the loan in full. But he says he was struggling financially at the time. He believes 
that if Fund Ourselves had carried out adequate checks, it would have realised that he 
already had a large number of loans outstanding. And he says this should have been a red 
flag. He believes that Fund Ourselves was irresponsible to lend to him in the circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she thought that 
Fund Ourselves had carried out proportionate checks, and she didnt think there was 
anything which ought to have indicated to it that Mr H might be experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Fund Ourselves on 14 July 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Fund Ourselves needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure that Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Fund Ourselves should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a 
consumer. These factors include:
othe lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
othe higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
othe greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
It was important for me to start by saying that Fund Ourselves was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all meant for Mr Hs complaint.
Fund Ourselves did some checks before it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. And it carried out a credit file search before 
agreeing the loan. It originally sent us some extracts from the credit search. But after 
the case was passed to me, Id asked for a full copy of the credit search results, and 
Fund Ourselves had now provided this.
The credit search that Fund Ourselves carried out showed that Mr H already had at 
least six other short-term loans outstanding when he applied for his loan. It also 
showed an open credit facility, a substantial longer-term loan and several credit card 
accounts, all of which were near their limits.
I thought that the credit search painted a picture of someone who was having 
significant problems managing his money. And I thought that Fund Ourselves should 
have realised that it was likely that Mr H would be unable to repay the loan 
sustainably. So I didnt think it should have agreed to lend to him.
I acknowledged that Fund Ourselves has pointed out that it declined two subsequent 
loan applications that Mr H made. But that didnt alter my view that it shouldnt have 
agreed to this loan either.
So I thought Fund Ourselves should to pay Mr H compensation as set out below.
further submissions
Mr H has told us that hes happy with my provisional decision. Fund Ourselves hasnt 
commented on my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Fund Ourselves shouldnt have agreed to make the loan to Mr H. So Fund Ourselves should:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr H paid on the loan;
pay interest at 8% simple per year on each of those amounts from the dates 
when Mr H paid them to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to take off tax from this interest. Fund 
Ourselves must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
I note that Mr H considers that hes experienced rudeness from Fund Ourselves. But I dont 
consider that it would be appropriate to require any additional compensation to be paid to 
reflect this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fund Ourselves Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman