DRN-4395872
The complaint
Mr J, Mrs J, Mr P and Mrs P (the trustees) complain about the loss of qualifying tax status for 
a life policy resulting from an administrative error on the part of Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
What happened
In March 1994 Mrs P took out a life policy with Norwich Union  now Aviva - which was put 
in trust. The policy was at that time a qualifying policy for tax purposes. In simple terms this 
means it met certain criteria which meant that at the point the policy matured or was 
surrendered there would be no tax to pay. 
In June 2022 Aviva wrote to Mrs P informing her that due to an administrative error on its 
part the policy was no longer qualifying. It said that it would refund any tax payable when the 
policy paid out.
Mrs P complained to Aviva on 28 June 2022 referring to the notification she had received of 
the loss of qualifying status of the policy setting out why she wasnt happy with the offer to 
repay any tax payable and insisting that the policy remain as qualifying. 
Aviva has no record of receiving the letter, or the follow up letter she sent. Mrs P then 
telephoned Aviva about her complaint and it subsequently issued a final response to the 
complaint in October 2022. 
It explained that it couldnt change the status of the policy so that it became qualifying again, 
as HMRC wouldnt allow it to do so. It said that it would reimburse any tax payable on the 
policy maturing or being surrendered and offered to pay £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs P then referred the compliant to our service and it was considered by one of our 
investigators. In short he was satisfied that Aviva offering to repay any tax that became 
payable and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Aviva had made an irreversible 
change to the policy she had taken out which has had a detrimental impact on her and the 
beneficiaries and there has been no explanation as to how or why this error occurred. She 
said the apology from Aviva was perfunctory and she would have expected a more critical 
commentary by the investigator on its performance.
Mrs P also said that the investigator hadnt taken account of the full contractual, financial, 
and emotional implications of the error by Aviva resulting from the loss of qualifying status of 
the policy or commented on its failure to contact HMRC to seek a return of the policy to 
qualifying status.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case based on the information provided by the 
parties and taking into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; good industry practice at the time - where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. My findings of fact are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to give to evidence 
provided by the parties.
There is no issue that the life policy lost its qualifying tax status due to an administrative 
error on the part of Aviva. It wrote to Mrs P to inform her of this in June 2022 and 
acknowledged the error in its final response to the complaint in October 2022. 
Mrs P said in response to the investigators opinion that there had been no explanation as to 
how or why the error occurred. I dont think it is necessary for me to address this in detail but 
I note that the Q & A document that Aviva says was enclosed with its letter of June 2022 
informed Mrs P of the loss of qualifying status and explained how this came about. 
It explains that due to changes in legislation in 2013 a declaration needed to be made by 
Mrs P as to not exceeding the annual premium limit for qualifying policies whenever there 
was a premium increase or other changes to the policy. Aviva didnt inform Mrs P of this or 
provide her with the declaration to complete and because no declaration was provided when 
it should have been the policy lost its qualifying tax status automatically.
I note Mrs P said she expected a more critical commentary by the investigator as to what 
Aviva did wrong. However, our role is to decide if the firm the subject of a complaint has got 
things wrong and if we find that it has, determine what it should do to put things right. Aviva 
accepted at the outset, quite rightly in the circumstances, that it hadnt done what it should 
have done and that this resulted in the loss of qualifying tax status for the policy. There is 
therefore no need for me to go into detail about this, as the issue I need to address is what it 
should do to put things right. 
Mrs P has suggested that there has been a failure on the part of Aviva to contact HMRC to 
seek a return of the policy to its qualifying tax status. However, I am not satisfied that Aviva 
has any basis for making such a request and am not persuaded that it has done anything 
wrong in not doing so. I will briefly explain why I have come to that conclusion.
The information on the HMRC website shows that it is the insurer that decides whether a 
policy is qualifying or not, based on the rules set by HMRC in relation to this. In accordance 
with those rules, the policy automatically became non-qualifying when the necessary 
declaration wasnt made by Mrs P within the specified time limit  within three months of 
premium increase or other event requiring a declaration. 
In the circumstances it appears the only way for the policy to be made qualifying again would 
be for Mrs P to contact HMRC and see whether it would agree to an extension of time for her 
providing the declaration/s to Aviva that should have been provided previously - which I think 
is probably unlikely in the circumstances, given we are going back to 2013. 
Aviva has agreed that it will repay any tax that is paid when the policy pays out and I dont 
think that is unreasonable. I note Mrs Ps concern that she raised with it that it might not pay 
the beneficiaries in good time or might not pay the full amount However, it is a regulated 
business and there is no good reason to think it wouldnt repay any tax paid as per its 
agreement to do so.
I also acknowledge the point Mrs P made to it about it being taken over by another business 
and the possibility the new business wouldnt keep to the agreement Aviva has made to repay tax. I accept that is a possibility but I am not persuaded this means that what Aviva 
has proposed is unreasonable.
Putting things right
Mrs P has argued that account hasnt been taken of the full contractual, financial, and 
emotional implications resulting from Avivas failings. I dont think the contract has been 
affected by the loss of qualifying tax status - in that the rights and obligations under the 
policy remain the same and the amounts specified in the policy are still payable. In terms of 
the financial implications, these arent known at this point in time as it isnt possible to know 
what, if any, tax may become payable. In any event Avivas promise to pay tax that may 
become payable addresses this.
In terms of the emotional impact, being informed that the policy was no longer qualifying will 
no doubt have been distressing. However, I am satisfied in the circumstances that the offer 
of £250 made by Aviva is a reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its failings in this case.
My final decision
I uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. Aviva should pay the trustees 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, Mrs J, Mr P 
and Mrs P as trustees of the P Trust to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 
2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman