DRN-2620714
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) charged his credit 
card an annual fee. 
What happened
Mr W opened his Virgin credit card account in July 2019. The first annual fee was debited to 
the account in September 2019. In July 2020, the second annual fee of £160 was debited.
Mr W asked to close his account. A refund of £40 was then made because the Flying Miles
Club benefit couldnt be used as a result of the Covid 19 restrictions on travel.
Mr W complained. He said that his account was opened on 27 July 2019. He asked to close
it on 28 July 2020 - on its first anniversary, so he shouldnt have to pay the annual fee. The
fee had been debited to the account on 5 July 2020  well in advance of when it should have
been due. He didnt use the card after 27 July 2020. So, he didnt get any benefit from the
card from then.
Virgin replied. They said that they couldnt close the account because it had been used since
the fee was charged on 5 July 2020. The fee had been charged and appeared on the July
2020 statement  the anniversary month of the account being opened. And there was an
outstanding balance on the account which had to be paid before it could be closed. They
had refunded £40 which they thought was reasonable.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In
October 2020 he said Virgin had acted reasonably. Virgin could debit the account with the
annual fee earlier than the anniversary of the account - this was in its terms and conditions.
Because the fee appeared in the July 2020 statement, it had to be paid by the due date of 26
July 2020 as part of that months transactions. There were two transactions after the fee was
charged - on 23 July 2020 and 30 August 2020. Virgin couldnt close the account as there
was an outstanding balance. They had refunded £40 and this was reasonable.
Mr W asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision, where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator.
I can see where Mr W is coming from. He opened his account on 27 July 2019 and asked
that it was closed on 28 July 2020  after one year. So, he thinks he shouldnt pay the
second years annual fee. I can see from statements that he was running down the
transactions on the card which suggests he was planning to close the account. Under the
terms of the credit card agreement, he could do this - they say The agreement has no fixed
term and you can ask us to end it at any time, by calling or writing to us. You do not need to
give us a reason for this.
Virgin say that they could debit the annual fee earlier than the account anniversary as its
terms and conditions say they can "Each subsequent annual card fee will be added to the
account on or about the anniversary of the account opening date and will be required to be
paid as part of your Minimum Payment".
Virgin say that the card had been used after annual fee was debited on 5 July 2020. They
were therefore entitled to charge the annual fee. So, Virgin has followed the terms here, but
the strict application of terms or policies wont always result in a fair outcome in individual
circumstances. And I think thats what happened here.
In saying this  the key issue with this complaint isnt whether Virgin debited the fee too
early. It is whether Mr W intended to close his account on its anniversary, and whether Virgin
acted reasonably in denying him his request and charging the annual fee? Ive considered
that Virgin chose to charge the fee early. I can see that Virgin sent Mr W the annual
statement for his card  covering the first year, from 27 July 2019 to 5 July 2020. This shows
annual card fee £320 - i.e. two fees of £160. So, this suggests that the fee was charged
early. Virgin have argued that there were transactions after the anniversary date of 27 July
2020. I can see there was one on 23 July 2020 for £10 (before the anniversary date). There
was a payment to an online video club for £3.49 on 30 August 2020 - which was refunded on
the same day. So  I dont consider this as significant. It doesnt suggest that Mr W was
going to use his card for a further year. And apart from that one transaction, all others had
stopped  so it looks clear that Mr W intended to stop using the card altogether. Virgin also
say that the account couldnt be closed as there was an outstanding balance  I can see the
statement dated 4 September 2020 had a balance of £135.17 debit. But I dont see this point
as especially significant  I can see that Mr W paid off the full balance each month. And the
balance of £135.17 was due to a disputed transaction  for which Virgin were not seeking
repayment anyway - while it was being investigated.
On balance, it seems to me that Mr W wanted to close his account and reasonably asked
Virgin to do it exactly one year after its anniversary. There was only one  refunded  small
transaction after that time. So, this was a reasonable request and Virgin shouldve been
more flexible in agreeing to what Mr W asked for.
I have considered whether Virgin should pay Mr W anything for distress and inconvenience.
We normally award this where a firm had done something wrong or made an error. In issuing
this provisional decision, I dont think this was the case  Virgin were acting within the terms
and conditions of the account. So, I am not going to ask them to make any payment for
distress and inconvenience. But I will be asking them to refund the annual card fee of £120 
that is, the fee of £160 less £40 already refunded.
Mr W accepted my findings. So did Virgin  who said they would make the refund of £120 to 
Mr Ws bank, and close his credit card account (which has a nil balance).
So  I now need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr W and Virgin have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I said in 
my provisional decision for the reasons I gave in this. So my final decision is that Virgin 
should do what Ive already suggested here 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money should refund the credit card fee of £120  this is the annual fee of £160 paid in July 
2020, less the £40 already refunded in July 2020. Clydesdale Bank Plc have said they would 
make the refund of £120 to Mr Ws bank, and close his credit card account (which has a nil 
balance).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman