DRN-3620742
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) failed to pursue mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims which meant theyd lost the opportunity to 
have their complaint investigated.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs D and Mr D instructed BCS to pursue PPI claims with their lenders. Mrs D 
and Mr D said that one of their lenders Ill call S said PPI was found on six of the accounts 
that he had with them, but BCS failed to pursue their claims. Mrs D and Mr D said BCS told 
them their claims were being investigated by S but theyd been delayed because of the 
pandemic. Mrs D and Mr D complained to BCS. 
BCS sent Mrs D and Mr D copies of the letters theyd had from S. and this showed S had 
found PPI on six accounts for Mrs D and Mr D. But to investigate whether the PPI had been 
mis-sold they needed a letter of complaint. S gave BCS a 12 week deadline to send the 
letter of complaint. 
Mrs D and Mr D asked BCS for evidence theyd sent the letter of complaint but BCS didnt 
respond. Mrs D and Mr D said when they asked their lender S about their mis-sold PPI 
claims they said S told them they hadnt received a complaint from BCS. As BCS wasnt 
responding to them Mrs D and Mr D brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator agreed that Mrs D and Mr D had suffered loss of opportunity. While he 
couldnt say whether Mrs D and Mr Ds claims would have been successful, theyd shown 
that S had said there was PPI on six of their accounts. To know this would have been 
upsetting for Mrs D and Mr D so he said BCS should pay them £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused. He also said that BCS had failed in keeping Mrs D and 
Mr D updated about their claim(s) and said they should also pay £75 for poor customer 
service.
Mrs D and Mr D didnt agree they said that one of the accounts that PPI had been found on 
was their mortgage account which theyd had since 1983. They said they should be 
compensated for the financial loss caused by BCS. They asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D and Mr Ds main dispute centres around the potential for their PPI claim with S to 
have been successful.
Its not in dispute that Mrs D and Mr D instructed BCS to check whether theyd been mis-sold 
any PPI. And that BCS submitted a signed letter of authority (LoA) to Mrs D and Mr Ds 
lenders.
BCS havent responded to our requests for information but Mrs D and Mr D have provided 
correspondence sent to them by BCS.
I can see that for two of Mrs D and Mr D lenders, Ill call H and N they were told by BCS 
that for one thered been a previous claim made. And for the other they didnt find any PPI.
But for lender S I can see that in October 2019 BCS told Mrs D and Mr D that S had 
found PPI and that BCS were about to submit a claim. And in November 2019 they told 
Mrs D and Mr D that theyd resubmitted your claim.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. 
This is generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. But for others a formal 
complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 
deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional 
circumstances for doing so.
I can see in September 2019 S told BCS that they didnt automatically convert a request for 
information into a complaint about mis-sold PPI. And that a PPI complaint needed to be 
made to them within 12 weeks of the date of the letter. If the PPI complaint wasnt received 
within the 12 weeks they said they would close the case.
BCS havent responded to our requests for information so I havent seen that a letter of 
complaint was sent or resubmitted by BCS to S. And I can see that BCS have only 
confirmed to Mrs D and Mr D that theyd submitted a LoA. So, Im persuaded by Mrs D and 
Mr Ds testimony that S told them they hadnt received a PPI complaint.
                                                      
Its not in dispute that Mrs D and Mr D had accounts that had PPI. But the accounts having 
PPI doesnt mean Mrs D and Mr Ds claim that theyd been mis-sold PPI would have been 
successful. As well as PPI being located on an account, S would also have needed to 
decide whether the PPI was mis-sold. And as they said they hadnt received a letter of 
complaint theyd closed the claim before investigating and confirming their decision on this.
Im cant know whether Mrs D and Mr Ds mis-sold PPI claims would have been successful 
or speculate on whether their mis-sold PPI claim would have been upheld. But I do agree 
that by BCS failing to send the information to S Mrs D and Mr D lost the opportunity for 
their claim to be fully investigated. I think it would have been upsetting to know that because 
BCS hadnt submitted a letter of complaint before the 12 week deadline date their PPI claims 
couldnt be decided on. So, I think BCS should compensate Mrs D and Mr D for this.
I know Mrs D and Mr D thinks BCS should reimburse them the compensation they could 
have received if his complaint had been fully investigated by S. But as I outlined above, I 
cant know if that claim would have been successful as there are several factors that S 
would have needed to consider. So, I agree with our investigator that BCS should 
compensate Mrs D and Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused 
to them.
Ive also considered the service BCS gave to Mrs D and Mr D. CMCOB provides guidance 
about how a claims management company such as BCS should keep their customers 
informed about their claims. And I dont think BCS have kept Mrs D and Mr D as informed as they should have. So I think its fair and reasonable for BCS to pay Mrs D and Mr D £75 for 
the inconvenience this has caused.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs D and Mr D hoped for. And I recognise they wont 
feel as though this addresses their potential financial loss, or their feeling of being let down 
by BCS. But I hope they understand why I came to this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to compensate Mrs D and 
Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused by paying them:
£500 for loss of opportunity and
£75 for poor customer service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman