DRN-4085745
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S took out a loan with Madison in August 2021. She borrowed £2,500 over 36 months, 
repaying £124.11 a month. The total cost of the loan including interest was £4,468.
Mrs S says she couldnt afford the credit. She says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Madison had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was unaffordable for 
her.
 
Madison says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs S and it didnt see anything 
which might make it think she couldnt afford the loan. 
Our adjudicator considered that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Madison hadnt done necessary and proportionate checks, and if it had it wouldnt have lent 
to Mrs S. Mrs S agreed with this view. 
Madison didnt respond to the view. Our adjudicator contacted Madison on numerous 
occasions to seek its views on our adjudicators opinion, but Madison didnt engage. 
As Madison did not say whether it agreed or not the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mrs S had elsewhere and Mrs Ss income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Madison said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Mrs S 
when she took out the loan. It provided this service with a copy of Mrs Ss credit file which it 
used to make its decision on whether to lend to her. Madison said it identified that when Mrs 
Ss payments to her existing creditors were paid, she would have had a disposable income 
of £525 a month. Madison said in its letter to Mrs S that she was asked to provide her 
income and expenditure when she applied for the loan, but I havent seen any evidence of 
this or of what Mrs S declared. It also said it used reasonable average figures to help it 
understand Mrs Ss likely financial circumstances. Again, it hasnt supplied evidence of how 
it reached these figures.
 
I dont think this was sufficient to allow Madison to be satisfied Mrs S could afford the 
repayments on a sustainable basis. 
Madison observed that Mrs S had active credit of around £20,000. She had opened five 
credit accounts in the preceding 12 months. There was evidence of arrears in the past year 
on both a utility account and a home credit loan. Mrs S was utilising a high percentage of her 
available existing credit.  
I think this information ought to have prompted Madison to do further checks on Mrs Ss 
income and essential expenditure. I accept that Madison says it did this when it asked Mrs S 
to provide detail about her income and expenditure, but it hasnt provided any evidence of 
this, so I dont know whether it took into account all her essential expenditure. 
In the absence of evidence of these checks I think it is reasonable for me to now rely on Mrs 
Ss bank statements to help me understand what Madison ought to have seen if it had done 
proportionate checks. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ss bank statements on her sole and joint accounts for the three month 
period leading up to her taking the loan I can see that Mrs S was experiencing financial 
difficulties. In the three month period 17 direct debit transactions were returned unpaid. 
These direct debits included repayments to existing creditors, debt management companies 
and utilities. The bank statements clearly show that Mrs S could not meet her essential 
expenditure. In the light of this, it seems very unlikely Mrs S could have been able to 
sustainably and affordably meet the repayments on her new loan.
So, on the information available to me, I dont think Madison did necessary and 
proportionate checks when it decided to lend to Mrs S. And if it had done them, it ought 
reasonably to have concluded that Mrs S wouldnt be able to affordably and sustainably 
meet the repayments each month. So, I think Mrs S lost out as a result of what Madison did 
wrong. 
Putting things right
Madison should not have provided the loan to Mrs S. To settle this complaint Madison 
should do the following. Please note the amendment to the last point which serves to clarify 
how Mrs Ss credit file should be amended.
Add up the total amount of money Mrs S received as a result of having been given 
this loan.
Subtract the repayments Mrs S has made from this amount.
If this results in Mrs S having paid more than she received, any overpayments must 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date of settlement.If any capital balance remains outstanding, Madison should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Mrs S. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mrs S 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on her credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been 
cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, acted unfairly when 
it gave Mrs S the loan. To put things right I direct Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 
118 Money to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman