DRN-4140157
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance, 
have reported adverse information to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs C has a personal loan with Novuna. In April 2022, Mrs C contacted Novuna because 
she was experiencing financial difficulty and was struggling to meet her payments. Following 
a discussion with Novuna, Mrs C agreed to a temporary reduced payment plan. 
However, Mrs C later discovered that Novuna had reported adverse information to her credit 
file because of the reduced payment plan. Mrs C wasnt happy about this as she felt the 
adverse consequences of her accepting the plan hadnt been clearly explained to her by 
Novuna. So, she raised a complaint.
Novuna responded to Mrs C but felt that they had advised Mrs C that her credit file might be 
adversely affected if she made reduced payments to the loan. Mrs C wasnt happy with 
Novunas response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Novuna had acted 
unfairly towards Mrs C in how theyd managed the situation. Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an individual takes out a personal loan, they agree to the terms of that loan which 
include that the individual must make the monthly payments as contractually required by 
those terms. And if the consumer doesnt make those contractually required payments, for 
whatever reason, the loan provider has an obligation to report this to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). 
The only slight caveat to this is that when reduced payments are made with the agreement 
of the loan provider  such as with the agreement of a temporary reduced payment plan  
this arrangement is also reported to the CRAs by the loan provider, so that the arrangement 
is noted on the individuals credit file. But regardless of whether a reduced payment plan has 
been agreed to by the loan provider or not, the fact that the individual hasnt made the full 
payments that are contractually required as per the loan agreement is recorded. 
In this instance, the terms of Mrs Cs loan included that she was required to pay £536.01 a 
month for the term of the loan. This meant that when Mrs C encountered financial difficulty 
such that she couldnt make those payments but could only afford to pay less, it was always 
going to be the case that this would be reported to the CRAs. And because Mrs C contacted 
Novuna and arranged a reduced payment plan with them, Novuna reported this agreement 
to the CRAs. And Novuna also agreed to not pursue Mrs C for the arrears that then accrued 
on the loan during the payment plan for the duration of that plan.
Mrs C feels that Novuna didnt inform her that accepting the temporary payment plan would 
result in adverse information being reported to the CRAs. But Novuna have demonstrated to 
my satisfaction that they did inform Mrs C about the potential adverse consequences of her 
accepting a reduced payment plan.
Notably, Novuna sent an email to Mrs C in April 2022 which explained: 
Please note that once there is a monthly instalment / part of a monthly instalment 
missing, this will be added into arrears on your agreement and any unpaid amount 
each month (£536.01 minus the amount you pay) will accrue in arrears which will 
reflect as a missing payment on your credit file which will have a negative impact on 
your credit file.
And Novuna also sent a second email to Mrs C later that same month with advised:
Reducing your payments. A reduced payment plan means we'll cancel any 
additional charges on your account. Paying a reduced amount each month can affect 
your credit score and make it hard for you to borrow money in the future.
I feel the two statements quoted above provide a clear explanation to Mrs C that making 
reduced loan payments less than the contractually required payment amount of £536.01 
would result in the account falling into arrears and being reported as such to the CRAs. 
Novuna have also provided a recording of a telephone call between Mrs C and themselves 
that took place on 5 May 2022. In this call, Novunas agent explains to Mrs C that if she does 
make a payment that is lower than £536.01, the remaining contractually required amount 
that she doesnt pay will be considered as arrears and will have a negative impact on her 
credit file. And so, in consideration of the above, Im satisfied that Novuna did tell Mrs C that 
her credit file could be adversely affected by making reduced payments to the loan.
Mrs C has explained that regardless of the emails and telephone conversation that took 
place, she didnt understand the negative impact that her accepting the reduced payment 
plan could have on her credit file. And Mrs C has also explained that if she had understood 
this fact, she would have borrowed money from her mother to enable her to continue making 
the contractually required loan payments and avoid the adverse credit file impact. 
But as explained, I feel that Novuna did make Mrs C aware of the potential impact on her 
credit file of making reduced payments to the loan. And Im also not convinced that Mrs C 
would have been able to continue to make the contractually required payments as shes said 
she would have been able to.
I say this because the income and expenditure assessment Novuna undertook with Mrs C 
clearly showed that Mrs C didnt have the disposable income available to her at that time to 
be able to afford the contractually required loan payment amount. 
And while its possible to say in hindsight, when the payments no longer need to be made, 
that her mother would have lent her the money to make the payments, Mrs C didnt indicate 
to Novuna that this was an option when discussing her financial difficulties with them. 
Instead, Mrs C indicated to Novuna that if no agreement could be reached, she wouldnt be 
able to make a payment to the loan and would default on the loan agreement.
Additionally, Mrs C has explained to this service that when she became aware of the 
adverse impact the account arrears were having to her credit file, she cleared the account arrears using a credit card which incurs a high interest rate. And Mrs C is unhappy of the 
impact that this high interest credit card debt is having on her financial position. 
But if Mrs Cs mother was able to provide the financial support to Mrs C that Mrs C has 
claimed, its difficult to understand why Mrs Cs mother didnt pay either the account arrears 
or the credit card debt that Mrs C incurred when paying off the account arrears herself.
Ultimately, the issue of whether Mrs C could have borrowed the money to make the 
contractually required payments is a moot point. And this is because Im satisfied that 
Novuna did provide Mrs C with the information that making reduced payments to the loan 
might have an adverse impact to her credit file. And because Mrs C did then make reduced 
payments to the loan. And Im also satisfied that Novuna have reported these reduced 
payments to the CRAs accurately, as would be expected of them.
All of which means that I dont feel that Novuna have done anything wrong here. And I also 
feel theres a responsibility on Mrs C, as the loan account holder, to have understood the 
terms of the loan shed entered into and to have questioned Novuna if there were any 
aspects of her agreeing to the reduced payment plan that she wasnt sure of  in light of both 
the loan terms and the information about the potential credit file impact that Novuna had 
provided to her. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs C was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Novuna to take any further action. I hope that 
Mrs C will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman