DRN-3445231
The complaint
Mr A complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds premium for his motor 
insurance policy was too high.
What happened
Mr A was in an accident which Admiral settled as being his fault. They also reduced his no 
claims bonus (NCB) and increased his premium to about double what it had been before his 
claim.  
Mr A didnt agree that the accident was his fault. So he took the case to court and it decided 
that it was not his fault. After this Admiral changed the records to show that Mr A hadnt been 
at fault in the claim. They reinstated his NCB and gave him a small refund of premium. They 
also ultimately reduced his renewal premium from what theyd earlier quoted. But his 
renewal premium was still significantly higher than his pre-claim premium. This was despite 
him having increased his policy excess. 
Mr A said Admiral had led him to believe that after the claim was made non-fault, the revised 
premium would be more in line with his pre-claim premium. He said hed found alternative 
insurance with another insurer, for a lower premium and a lower excess, more in line with his 
pre-claim premium with Admiral. So he felt that Admirals premium quote was contrary to 
common sense and that they were taking advantage of him. 
Admiral said the premium was calculated correctly, in line with their pricing structure but they 
couldnt provide more detail as that was commercially sensitive information. However they 
explained that they rated no-fault accidents as well as fault accidents and that Mr A s no-
fault claim did still influence their assessment of the risk of insuring him in future. Mr A didnt 
agree and so brought a complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral had demonstrated that theyd acted fairly and reasonably. Mr A didnt agree and so 
Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was unhappy because Admirals premium was still so high despite him not having been 
at fault, and despite him increasing his compulsory excess, and Admiral recovering their 
outlays. He was unhappy that Admiral hadnt told him that his premium could remain so high 
even though the accident was not his fault. This was particularly so when another insurer 
had offered him a much more reasonable premium and lower excess. But, as the 
investigator explained, increasing an excess doesnt necessarily translate to a lower 
premium. 
And we think that insurers can take a number of factors into account in deciding premium 
amount. Admiral explained to Mr A that their statistics showed that drivers who have made a 
non-fault claim are more likely to make another claim in the near future. Mr A disagreed 
based on his own experience as a long-time driver. He felt that there was no increased risk 
of further claims in a short time frame. He was not interested in the details of how Admiral 
had calculated the premium but thought it was common sense that it should be lower given 
that he hadnt been at fault.
As the investigator explained to Mr A, it isnt our role to tell a business what it should charge 
for the insurance it is offering, as that is a commercial decision for them. She also explained 
that pricing is a commercially sensitive area, and so we are generally not able to intervene 
on complaints about the price of insurance. Insurers can choose what information to 
consider when setting the price of a policy (the premium) and that price is based on the risk 
they want to take. 
The factors an insurer considers in doing so, and the weight they place on those factors, is 
the insurers choice, and its not our role to question those. And because thats commercially 
sensitive information, we cant require insurers to disclose it. But Admiral did explain their 
rating factors to Mr A as far as they could, which I think was reasonable of them. And 
Admiral have shown us their underwriting criteria and information on how theyd calculated 
his premium. This included what rating factors they used and how different issues affected 
the premium quoted. As Ive said, its commercially sensitive information, so we cannot 
disclose it. However having reviewed it Im satisfied the price Admiral quoted was calculated 
correctly and other Admiral customers in his position would have been charged a similar 
premium.
So I think that Admiral have shown us that they have treated Mr A fairly, in line with their 
underwriting criteria, in that they treated him the same as they would have done any other 
customer with the same circumstances. This means that I dont think that Admiral treated Mr 
A unfairly or unreasonably, and so I dont ask them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
