DRN-2515837
The complaint
Miss A complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund her a payment made 
from her current account.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss A was the unfortunate victim of a scam. She had been looking for 
rental accommodation abroad and came across a property that she thought would be 
suitable. Miss A contacted the agents of this property but it later became apparent 
that it wouldnt be suitable and Miss A was offered another. Happy with the second 
property, Miss A made a payment towards it and was planning to move in when she 
flew abroad to continue her studies. Unbeknown to Miss A, she was actually dealing 
with fraudsters. 
Miss A transferred £1,165 on 10 June 2019 from her current account to pay for the 
property. She was expecting the agents to meet her from the airport to take her to the 
property but no-one turned up to meet her and Miss A eventually had to return home. 
Following some further correspondence with the fraudsters about a refund that failed 
to materialise, Miss A realised she had been the victim of a scam. 
Around 10 days after the payment was made, Miss A contacted Starling to let it know about 
what had happened and Starling got in touch with the receiving bank to see if it could return 
any of Miss As funds. But on 11 July 2019, Starling were informed that none of Miss As 
funds remained in the receiving account  theyd already been removed by the fraudsters. 
At this point, Starling told Miss A there was nothing further it could do to help her. 
Miss A was unhappy with Starlings response and brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt there wasnt 
anything about the payment itself that meant Starling shouldve questioned Miss A about it 
before it allowed it to leave her account. And so, she didnt think there was anything 
Starling couldve done to prevent Miss A falling victim to this particular scam. And she 
didnt think there was anything more Starling couldve done once notified that Miss A had 
been the victim of a scam either  she felt it was likely that Miss As funds had already 
been removed by the fraudsters at the point Miss A notified Starling of the scam. 
Miss A disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I first thought about whether the payment Miss A made was so out of character and 
unusual for her account that it shouldve put Starling on notice that she may have 
been at risk of financial harm. Miss As account had only been open for just over two 
months when the payment was made and so there isnt much account history 
available for the scam payment to be compared to. This means it has been difficult to 
establish if a payment of this type wouldve been usual for Miss A. However, I also 
have to bear in mind that the payment amount isnt particularly high in value. And it is 
not untypical for consumers to make one-off transactions for this amount  as was 
the case here, to pay for rental accommodation. I can also see the scam payment 
didnt clear Miss As account or leave it in a negative position. 
Ive thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont 
consider that a payment to a new payee was in itself suspicious enough to mean that 
Starling shouldve contacted Miss A to discuss the payment before it was processed. 
 
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments as per their 
customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and potentially harmful 
activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Starling shouldve identified the 
payment Miss A made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks. I dont think 
there was anything particularly suspicious about this payment at all - especially given 
it was for a relatively small amount. 
Ive also thought about whether Starling couldve done more to help Miss A once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. We havent been able to establish 
exactly when Miss As funds were removed from the receiving account. But I agree 
with the Investigator that they were likely removed by the fraudsters as soon they 
were received  to avoid the risk of Miss A reporting the scam and the funds being 
taken back. And so Im satisfied its more likely than not that the funds were removed 
before Starling became aware of the scam. And so I dont think there was anything 
further Starling could do to help Miss A at this point either.   
Finally, I want to say how very sorry I am to hear about the situation Miss A found herself in. 
I understand that it must have been frightening to find herself abroad with nowhere to stay 
and how disappointing it must have been to have to return home. I also know this is a lot of 
money for her to have lost given that she was studying at the time. But I cant say her loss 
was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Starling and so I cant fairly ask Starling to 
refund her. The fault here lies with the cruel actions of the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman