DRN-4216406
The complaint
Miss P complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined a claim under her 
home insurance policy for an escape of water. 
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Miss P has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. She made a 
claim for damage caused by an escape of water when a leak emanated from the 
mains water supply to her washing machine. 
Admiral surveyed the damage and said it had occurred gradually. It said the leak had 
been going on for a long time and likely occurred before the policy started. It wasnt 
satisfied Miss P had reported the damage as soon as possible. And said Miss P 
hadnt taken steps to mitigate further damage. So, it declined the claim. 
Unhappy, Miss P brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and upheld it. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded Miss P ought to have known about the damage as 
she didnt consider it to be visible or obvious. So, she said Admiral should reimburse 
Miss P the costs shed incurred in having the claim related damage fixed. She also 
thought Admiral had caused Miss P avoidable distress and inconvenience and 
recommended it pay £350 compensation. 
Admiral disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators outcome, and Ill explain why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. So, Ive 
considered what this means in the context of Miss Ps complaint.  
Admirals decision to decline the claim
With any claim the starting point is that the onus is on the policyholder to show an 
insured event most likely caused the damage claimed for. Here, its not in dispute 
theres been an escape of water  which is an insured peril under the policy. 
However, because Admiral is seeking to rely on an exclusion to decline cover, the 
onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. 
Here, Admiral has said the damage occurred gradually and so, isnt covered. 
Miss P has discussed her concerns about the health of her new-born baby upon 
discovering the damage. And considering her testimony, which I find to be plausible 
and persuasive, it strikes me that she was unlikely to have found the leak / damage 
and left it to worsen over time. So, on its face, Im minded to agree she reported it to 
Admiral on the day she first discovered it  in accordance with the policy terms. 
Ive looked at Admirals surveyors report, and having done so, Im not persuaded its 
decision to decline the claim is fair. I say this because the pictures fail to demonstrate 
what theyre intending to  namely, that the water damage was obvious. From what 
Ive seen, the property was in relatively good condition except for one door having 
mould on it. And so, the damage doesnt appear to be to the extent Admiral is saying 
it was. 
Admiral has said the living room floor carpet was saturated which indicates the leak 
had been going on for a long time and that Miss P would have been aware of this. 
But it hasnt explained why this damage would have been apparent to Miss P before 
the damage to the kitchen occurred, and that she had therefore, ignored it. 
But even if I accept the damage occurred gradually, I dont consider it reasonable to 
say Miss P knew about it because notably, the leak was behind her washing machine 
and much of the damage was under the floor - and so, wouldnt have been 
immediately visible to her.
And I dont consider the visible damage Admiral has referred to  namely, the kitchen 
floor, end panels, and plinths  to be obviously water damaged. And so, I dont think 
Miss P could have reasonably known it was damaged and that it was attributable to a 
leak which had possibly been going on for a long time. Furthermore, its not clear if or 
when Miss P noticed issues with closing the kitchen door due to the kitchen floor 
being affected.  
As our Investigator highlighted, if the leak had been going on for over a year - as 
Admiral has suggested by saying the damage likely pre-dated the start of the policy  
you may reasonably expect to see long standing damage such as mould or rot, which 
might have highlighted the issue to Miss P. But thats not the case here, and as Ive 
detailed above, Admiral has provided limited evidence to support its position.
So, taking everything into account, including Miss Ps testimony and circumstances, 
Im not satisfied Admiral has demonstrated it can reasonably rely on the gradual 
causes exclusion to decline Miss Ps claim.
Compensation
Miss P has explained that at the time of the claim she was caring for her new-born 
baby and that Admirals decision to decline it meant she had to spend time 
organising her own contractors, which was stressful. Whilst the nature and extent of 
the damage, along with Miss Ps concerns about it being a risk to her new-borns 
health, meant she would have likely moved out of her property anyway, I agree that 
her having to organise her own contractor was an avoidable additional strain at what 
was already a challenging time for her.Because she had concerns about her new-born baby living in a property with damp, 
Miss P understandably wanted the damage repaired at the earliest opportunity and 
Admiral unfairly declining the claim added to the time it took to get the repairs 
completed. 
This coupled with the financial strain Miss P says she experienced by having to pay 
for the repairs herself satisfies me that £350 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
to:
reimburse Miss P the cost of having the claim related damage repaired (subject to 
proof). Admiral should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Miss P paid for 
the repairs to the date it is refunded.
pay Miss P £350 compensation. Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Miss P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than 
this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for 
settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman