DRN-3709080
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her 
purchase of some solar panels.
Mrs T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs T bought solar panels for her home in January 2019. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from OCRF, and that business is therefore liable under the Act for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mrs T says the installer misled her into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in this case is not to evaluate the opinion of my colleague (as the CMC has 
requested), but to form my own view of the evidence de novo.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
There is a four page document titled Solar PV Performance Estimate. On the first page it 
states that the estimated total annual benefit from the panels is £388.40.
Then on the fourth page, it says the total cash price of the panels is £7,190, there was a 
deposit of £1,310, and the amount borrowed is £5,880. Just below that, it says that the total 
amount repayable including interest is £9,121.20, and that there will be 120 monthly 
payments of £76.01. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not buried in some fine 
print. This document was signed by Mrs T on pages two and four, and so I am satisfied that 
the installers salesman did bring all this information to her attention on the day of the sale.
So the cost and the benefits of the panels were easily reviewable in one document. Mrs T 
did not need to refer to a second document to see that the panels would not pay for 
themselves. It was clear that one tenth of the amount borrowed would come to £588 each 
year. That is £200 more than the estimated benefit in the first year. Alternatively, one tenth of 
the cash price would be £719; that is almost double the benefit figure. And one tenth of the 
total amount repayable under the loan would be £912.12; much more than double the benefit 
figure. Again, I think this is clear.
Another way of looking at it is that 12 monthly payments of £76 would certainly exceed £388.
The CMC has argued that it is not good enough to simply consider the estimated benefit in 
the first year, because the benefit might be higher in each of years two to nine. I accept that 
the benefit can be expected to increase a little each year, but certainly not by nearly enough 
to make the panels self-funding. As I have said, the shortfall in year one comes to £200 if the 
panels were to cover the principal amount borrowed. And if the panels were to cover the 
interest and deposit too  the total amount repayable  then the average benefit over ten 
years would have to be more than double what it was in the first year. I do not accept that 
Mrs T was told that the benefits would increase at such a rate, nor do I think it is plausible 
that she would have accepted the salesmans word for that without asking to see it in writing.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs T about the 
benefits and cost of the panels. It was made clear at the point of sale that the panels would 
not be self-funding during the term of the loan, and so I do not accept that she was told 
otherwise.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman