DRN-4500134
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained about what they said was a long-running series of errors made by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They said they only wanted to pay off and close their mortgage and 
the linked Mortgage Current Account (MCA) but Barclays had repeatedly failed to do this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage, with a linked MCA, with Barclays. They also had some 
additional secured lending, which theyd taken out later. Barclays refers to this as a Home 
Improvements Loan (HIL).
Mr and Mrs L told us about a series of errors made by Barclays, when they asked it to close 
their mortgage and linked MCA. Ill set out below what they told us happened. 
They said this started in mid-November 2022, when Barclays first gave them the wrong
figure to pay off just their mortgage and MCA.
They said Barclays then failed to apply their payment to the requested debts. It paid off the
mortgage, then used the rest as an overpayment on their HIL instead of the MCA.
When they told Barclays about its mistake, they said the figures it gave on its letter about the
mistake, dated 28 November, simply made no sense.
The remaining money was moved back to their MCA where they wanted it. This left their 
MCA just under £300 in credit, so they asked for the money to be moved to their current 
account, and the MCA to be closed. They said Barclays paid the money, but told them it 
couldnt close the MCA because some interest was owed. They paid this, but no closing 
statements were received.
On 15 December, Mr L rang Barclays, spending an hour on the phone trying to finalise this
issue and get closing statements for the two accounts. These still havent been sent.
On 6 January Mr and Mrs L got a letter acknowledging their complaint about the above
errors. It read 
Unfortunately, were still not in a position to share the findings of our investigation.
This is because [insert reasons here].
Thank you for your continued patience while we conclude our investigation. Well be 
in touch again by [insert date].
Mr and Mrs L felt this was deeply unprofessional.
Mr and Mrs L got a response to their complaint on 10 January, and they spoke to Barclays
on the phone. They accepted £200 in compensation, because theyd understood the MCA
would be corrected to zero, and their closing statements would be sent on.
Mr and Mrs L said when they got this 10 January letter from Barclays, there were lots of
errors. Its notes about a previous phone conversation didnt match the other documents it
had sent them. Their main mortgage wasnt maturing as Barclays had suggested.
Mr and Mrs L then got a redemption statement showing their first mortgage still had a debt of
just under £300, although theyd been repeatedly told this was at zero.
On 12 January 2023 Mr L rang to discuss the statement, and was told that as the complaint
had been made by Mrs L, Barclays couldnt discuss it with him, although this is a joint
mortgage between Mr and Mrs L. Barclays did say it could discuss the complaint with Mr Ls
son, although he is a minor and doesnt hold any accounts at Barclays.
On 13 January 2023, Mr and Mrs L visited a branch to discuss the mortgage in person. No
one there could help. A phone call on the branchs phone line took an hour to be answered.
When the phone was answered, the mortgage team couldnt explain what had gone wrong.
Mr and Mrs L then got a fresh statement for their MCA, saying it was 7 pence in credit. But
on 23 February, Barclays said it couldnt close their MCA because the account was 7 pence
in debt. Barclays offered £175 in compensation then, but Mr and Mrs L turned that down,
because the matter still wasnt resolved. They then received a letter saying their MCA hadnt
been closed because they wouldnt pay this outstanding debt (although their statement
showed this wasnt a debt). And they still had no closing statement for the tracker mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L wanted Barclays to investigate, and work out why things had gone so wrong.
They said they wanted the closing statements for their mortgage and MCA, showing zero
balances. And they said the additional £175 offered wasnt enough to make up for all the
mistakes Barclays had made, and all the time this had taken.
Barclays has issued two complaint response letters in this case. They say different things.
The first letter, dated 10 January 2023, said that Barclays had made mistakes in allocating
the money that Mr and Mrs L had paid to redeem their mortgage. Barclays thought then that
it had wrongly included an early repayment charge (which applies to their HIL) and a
redemption fee when telling them how much to pay to redeem their mortgage.
This letter said Barclays had now moved the money where Mr and Mrs L wanted it, but said
it thought it had then overcharged interest, because the same amount had been applied to
their MCA twice. So Barclays said it would refund that, and it would pay £200 in
compensation for its mistakes. But Barclays said then that Mr and Mrs Ls MCA couldnt be
closed, because they still had lending linked to that account, in the form of their HIL.
The second letter, dated 23 February, said the reason Mr and Mrs Ls MCA couldnt be
closed was because they wouldnt pay the outstanding debt of 7 pence. Once they did that,
the account would close. And Barclays offered £175 in compensation.
When this case came to our service, Barclays said it had asked Mr and Mrs L to pay more 
than they needed to, to clear their main mortgage account. So it had paid the rest into their 
HIL. They wanted this to be used against the MCA debt instead, so Barclays did that. It then 
reopened the complaint, because Mr and Mrs L had been told they didnt owe anything on 
either their main mortgage or the HIL, and they did owe 7 pence.
Barclays said it would still pay the £175 it had offered in its second complaint response
letter. And it thought a total payment of £390.04 was fair and reasonable compensation for
what had gone wrong here.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought that Barclays hadoffered a reasonable amount of compensation for what had gone wrong here.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They said our investigator had underestimated the number of
mistakes that Barclays made. And this still wasnt resolved, as Barclays was still asking for
payment of a debt they didnt owe. They said our investigator had included in his total
compensation, money Barclays had refunded after overcharging them, which they didnt
think was compensation. They didnt think the remaining £375 (including £175 which
Barclays had recently paid) made up for all the time this had taken. They didnt think that the
recent interest rises explained or excused the poor service Barclays had provided. They
thought a figure closer to £750 would be more reasonable.
Barclays also contacted us, to say that the MCA was in credit by 7 pence, and that it couldnt
close the MCA while Mr and Mrs Ls HIL lending was still outstanding. This case then came 
to me, and I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs L supplied our service with a very detailed breakdown of the problems 
theyve experienced, including numbered annexes as evidence. I thank them for that.
Im aware that, in this decision, Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint 
in less detail than that provided to us. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which
reflects the informal nature of this service. I want to assure both sides that Ive read and
considered everything on file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point 
raised to fairly reach my decision. And if I dont comment on something, its not because 
I havent considered it. Its because Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mr and Mrs L have told us they made a payment in branch, and asked Barclays to pay 
this money to their mortgage and MCA. That money wasnt paid to these accounts. As 
this was done in branch, I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs L were clear about where they 
wanted this money to go. So I dont know if this was a mistake by Barclays or not. 
However, its clear that a number of mistakes followed this.
Barclays says the amounts it gave Mr and Mrs L to redeem their mortgage and pay off 
their MCA werent right. It doesnt seem likely that this was because, as Barclays has 
suggested, it included the ERC and redemption fees from the HIL lending but didnt 
include the MCA lending, as these figures dont seem to match up. That wouldnt leave 
a surplus, the MCA lending was more than the sum of the ERC and the fees Barclays 
has mentioned. 
It follows from the above that I dont think the explanation that Barclays has provided of 
this was helpful. And I note, as Mr and Mrs L have said, that the letter they received 
dated 28 November doesnt reflect the payment that was made to their HIL. It looks as if 
Barclays may have duplicated a transaction here.
Ive seen the letter Barclays sent Mr and Mrs L on 6 January, to say it hadnt yet 
resolved their complaint. It is as they said, a template letter with sections simply not 
completed. So I can quite understand why this created such a poor impression.
I do think that, around 6 January, Mr and Mrs L were told that their MCA couldnt be 
closed, because it was linked to the HIL lending which was outstanding. I think this is 
why their account is still open. I think this is also likely to be why they havent received a closing statement for their mortgage either  because they still have secured lending 
with Barclays, and Barclays says this is all linked. But if indeed that is the case, I think 
Barclays could have explained the position with the mortgage to Mr and Mrs L, and 
could have told them at the outset that their MCA couldnt be closed yet. I also think its 
unhelpful that after 10 January, Barclays seems to have reverted to telling Mr and Mrs L 
that their MCA would be closed, once the account was at zero. It wont be, while they 
are still paying off the HIL.
I dont think the explanation of errors that Barclays set out in its letter of 10 January is 
likely to be right, and I note the other errors in that letter which Mr and Mrs L told us 
about. The redemption statement of 9 January also doesnt seem to match the figures 
they were given. 
Barclays also said then that it thought it had duplicated interest on Mr and Mrs Ls MCA. 
I think that was likely to be the case, and Im glad to see that Barclays refunded this. I 
dont think, however, that it has assisted the resolution of this case for Barclays to argue 
that this refund of wrongly charged interest is part of a compensation payment to Mr and 
Mrs L.
The redemption statement issued on 9 January suggests a different explanation for the
figures Mr and Mrs L were originally given, to pay off their lending. That statement says 
that Mr and Mrs L still owe £289.97. Thats around the same amount that they were told 
theyd overpaid by, and which was transferred by Barclays to their current account 
elsewhere. And I think its likely to be the total of two other amounts I can see on the 
account  the interest of just under £15 which was charged on the MCA, and the 
redemption fee, of £275, which should only be charged once the second tranche of 
secured lending, in the HIL, was paid off.
So it may be that Barclays explanation was partially right, and when it gave Mr and Mrs 
L an amount to redeem their mortgage and MCA, it didnt include the ERC which is 
payable on the HIL lending, but it did include a redemption fee which wasnt yet due. 
That would also explain why Barclays has now told us Mr and Mrs Ls tracker mortgage 
has a zero balance. 
It also looks like Barclays included in its figure to redeem the mortgage and MCA, some
interest that was about to be charged on the MCA. But then Barclays forgot to alert Mr 
and Mrs L to this upcoming charge when it transferred the surplus to their current 
account. 
Barclays then refused to discuss this complaint on a call with Mr L. I think this has been 
a joint concern from the outset, so Im unclear as to why Barclays has reached the 
conclusion that it couldnt discuss this with Mr L. I think Mr Ls frustration about this was 
likely to be increased because Barclays apparently would discuss the matter with his 
minor son instead. I can see that Barclays own notes do confirm what Mr and Mrs L 
have said about this.
In their final attempts to resolve this issue, Mr and Mrs L were told that their MCA was 7
pence in debt, when their documents clearly show it was 7 pence in credit. Barclays now
accepts this account is in credit. Barclays also reverted at this point to telling Mr and Mrs 
L their MCA could be closed when the balance was cleared. We know now it cant be 
closed until their HIL is also paid.
I think it is worth noting at this point that Barclays has since told us Mr and Mrs Ls 
tracker mortgage does now have a zero balance. Their MCA is 7 pence in credit. And 
their HIL remains open.I recognise that much of the above represents my view of the evidence in what has
unfortunately been a shifting picture throughout this complaint. Barclays is welcome to
comment further on my provisional conclusions above.
In closing, Id like to say that I know Mr and Mrs L wanted to find out why things had 
gone so wrong here. Im sorry that I havent been able to tell them why these mistakes 
have been made. But I have been able to see that a considerable number of errors have 
been made, and on occasion Barclays attempts to put right mistakes just seem to have 
resulted in more mistakes. I can well understand just how deeply frustrating Mr and Mrs 
L have found this.
I think here I have to recognise the sheer number of mistakes made, and the length of 
time this has taken. So, in this case, I think that the total amount Mr and Mrs L have 
suggested as compensation, of £750, would provide a fair and reasonable amount to 
resolve this matter, which seems to me to be quite a long series of linked complaints.
I understand Barclays has already paid some money for this matter, so I will allow 
Barclays to count towards my award, the two payments it has made, of £200 and £175. 
But it may not count towards my award, the refund of overcharged interest it also made. 
My provisional decision would require Barclays to pay £375 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it had nothing to add, and it would accept my decision. 
Mr and Mrs L said theyd had a statement from Barclays which said their mortgage was in 
credit by 1 pence. They hadnt received a statement for their MCA, so could only assume it 
was still 7 pence in credit. Mr and Mrs L said they would also like up to date statements from 
Barclays, showing a zero balance on both their mortgage and MCA. They wanted the 
balance brought to zero on both of these accounts even if that meant Barclays transferred 
the outstanding balance to its own accounts. 
I dont know if Barclays will be able to provide these statements showing a zero balance 
now, as well as to maintain a zero balance on both accounts until the HIL is also paid off. 
And if I pause now to require Barclays to do this, that would delay the resolution of this 
complaint for Mr and Mrs L. So I wont require Barclays to do this as part of my decision. If 
the amounts showing on these accounts do continue to fluctuate, and that causes Mr and 
Mrs L inconvenience, then they can address that issue with Barclays in future. 
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind about the appropriate resolution in this 
case. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs L £375 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman