DRN-1599261
The complaint
Mrs M complains that V12 Retail Finance Limited rejected a claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, through a fixed 
sum loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
section 75 claim or a chargeback. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that, 
in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mrs M says the agreement was misrepresented to her because she says the sales agent 
told her, and her daughter, that if the full balance wasnt paid by the buy now pay later date 
then interest would only be paid on the balance of the account. 
Whilst I dont dispute Mrs Ms version of events I can see that the merchant does dispute it. 
So, Ive gone on to consider what the agreement said. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs M 
to have read the terms of the finance agreement she was entering into and I dont think the 
terms here were vague.
They explained that 
Interest at the interest rate set out above is applied to the Amount of Credit at the outset to 
calculate the total interest due. And that No interest is payable if you exercise the buy now 
pay later repayment option.
The terms also explained that the total amount of credit was £2,027 and the total amount 
payable, if it was not settled by the end of the buy now pay later term, was £4,352.28. 
It was explained that if you exercise the buy now pay later option and repay the loan in full 
together with the settlement fee, interest accrued will be rebated.
So, I think it was always clear that Mrs M would attract the interest if she didnt settle her 
account by the buy now pay later date and Im not persuaded there is enough information 
here that the agreement was misrepresented to her.
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman