DRN-3814728
The complaint
Mr B complains that Think Money Limited added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr B says that he asked Think Money to close his account. He is unhappy it added the 
marker and says he hasnt been involved in fraudulent activity.
Think Money said it had received reports that money received by Mr B in January 2021 had 
been obtained fraudulently. It had asked him to show he was entitled to funds received into 
his account and he hadnt done so. Having reviewed his account it decided that there were 
sufficient grounds to add the marker when it was closed.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The specific payments 
reported as fraudulent were one for £230 and the other for £150 both credited to his account 
in January 2021. Mr B had told him that the payment for £230 was for fireworks but was 
unable to show that he had supplied any such goods. Hed also earlier told Think Money that 
this related to a bicycle. And that the payment of £150 was for the sale of cryptocurrency but 
again couldnt support this with sufficient evidence. Our adjudicator noted that Mr B had 
moved some of this money to an account at a different bank shortly after receipt.
Mr B provided some screenshots about what he says were business transactions at this 
time. He said given the time that has passed he was having difficulty confirming the details 
relating to the payment of £230. Of the £150 he says that he received the money and was 
himself the victim of a scam when he sent this on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Think Money 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I note that Think Money did ask Mr B to provide evidence he was entitled to funds hed 
received or attempted to receive into his account. With respect to the payment of £230 that 
had been reported as fraudulent he accepts he gave a false explanation. Hed also said he 
would provide online chats supporting this at the time and didnt do so. He has nothing to 
substantiate being due this money. And so, Im satisfied that he was complicit in receiving 
these fraudulent funds.
He has provided screenshots though which purport to show that he was selling his own 
cryptocurrency at the time. In particular that he was paid the £150 for this in January 2021. I 
note that one of those screenshots states that the buyer had marked this trade as paid. 
Check if youve received the payments and send the Bitcoin. I dont have clear information 
that Mr B did this. I take into account what he says about his own involvement and that this 
fraudulent payment wasnt reported until April 2021. Having said that I dont see hes 
formally reported being the victim of a scam himself. I dont think Mr B has sufficiently 
clarified his own involvement with evidence and taken alongside the clear concern about the 
payment of £230 I find this payment most likely consistent with fraudulent use of the account 
too. And I note that in light of these concerns Mr B didnt substantiate other payments into 
his account as Think Money wanted.
Think Money says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr B received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Think Money was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Think Money needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Think Money had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Think Money 
at the time.
- Mr B authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Think Money had grounds to believe that Mr B had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In light of this it had grounds to close the account which in any event was what Mr B wanted. 
I appreciate what Mr B says about the impact of the marker for him, but I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Think Money to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman