DRN-4054731
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) did not answer the phone or 
call her back in order for her to change her telephone numbers and access her funds.
What happened
Mrs S says that on 24 October 2022, she attempted to log into her NS&I online account in 
order to transfer funds to an account with a third party who were offering a higher interest 
rate than NS&I. She says that NS&I recently introduced a two-factor authentication (2FA) 
security feature which requires a landline or mobile number in order for them to send a 
security code. But when she attempted to log in, she could see that the phone numbers 
NS&I held for her were out of date, but the system wouldnt allow her to log in to update the 
telephone numbers. Mrs S attempted to ring and email NS&I to update these telephone 
numbers on multiple occasions between 24 October  5 December 2022 until the issue was 
resolved after she rang the complaints helpline and they transferred her to a department who 
could assist her  after she was transferred to someone else after the call handler 
experienced system issues.  
Mrs S made a complaint to NS&I, but they did not uphold her complaint. They said on some 
occasions more calls come through to them than they expect and in these instances there is 
a delay in answering calls. The complaint handler said that should Mrs S still have problems 
contacting the helpline then she should contact her on the direct line to her at the top of the 
response. Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. She said she wanted NS&I to pay her 
£510.16 for a loss of interest for the 43 days she was without her funds plus compensation 
for the upset, stress and time wasted as a result of NS&I inaction.
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs S complaint. She said she didnt think it shouldve 
taken so many attempts, using so many different modes of communication to try and update 
Mrs S phone numbers. She said NS&I shouldve contacted Mrs S via a call back as she 
requested via email, much sooner. So she thought NS&I should pay Mrs S £150 
compensation. Our investigator said it was Mrs S responsibility to make sure her details 
were up to date, and she shouldve checked her phone numbers were up to date sooner. 
She said NS&I couldnt have foreseen that Mrs S would miss out on a third party investment 
opportunity, and they are entitled to have security measures in place such as 2FA. Mrs S 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
NS&I have told us the names of a couple of products that Mrs S holds with them. So Ive 
looked on NS&Is website to see what the Key features and customer agreement says 
regarding up to date information. The customer agreement of both of these accounts says 
You must tell us whenever you change your name, address, phone number, email address, 
or nominated account. So Mrs S could have helped mitigate what happened to her here. I 
say this as if Mrs S had updated her telephone details with NS&I when these were changed, 
instead of leaving her old telephone numbers on her account, then its likely she would have 
been able to receive the code to her phone and move the funds in a timely manner without 
any issue. 
But despite Mrs S not doing this, I would still expect NS&I to help Mrs S change her 
telephone numbers when she reached out to them. Its unfortunate that NS&Is queues and 
procedures resulted in Mrs S being disconnected and having to try to contact them again 
and again. I can see from the timeline that Mrs S has provided us that between 24 October 
and 13 November 2022 (when NS&I responded to Mrs S complaint), that she attempted to 
ring NS&I ten times over five different days. She also wrote to NS&I, but as she was 
registered for their online and phone service, then they were unable to change her phone 
numbers by post. Mrs S also emailed NS&I on a number of occasions and asked for a call 
back. But she didnt get one. And she reached out to them via social media. So I do think 
NS&I have let Mrs S down by not assisting her in changing her telephone numbers, even if 
this was via a call back which she asked for  which NS&I now acknowledge they could 
have done sooner. 
In considering what is a fair outcome for this complaint. I need to consider what actions Mrs 
S took to help mitigate the situation also. NS&Is response to her on 13 November 2022, 
says Should you still have issues contacting our helpline, please contact me on our direct 
line above. So Mrs S had clear instructions to contact the complaint handler directly if she 
was still having problems on the NS&I helpline. But Ive seen no evidence that she called 
this telephone number on the response letter until 5 December 2022  the same day when 
her issue was resolved. So if Mrs S had followed the complaint handlers instructions, then 
the telephone numbers could have more than likely been changed nearly a month before 
they were actually changed.
So it is not proportionate for me to ask NS&I to pay Mrs S any interest she may have been 
able to earn elsewhere should she have been able to access her money when she first 
intended to. I say this based on her not taking action which either would have enabled her to 
access her money straight away if she had informed NS&I of the changes to her telephone 
numbers when they were originally changed, and her not appearing to contact NS&I on the 
direct line she was given until 5 December 2022. 
But I do think that NS&I should pay Mrs S compensation for distress and inconvenience. She 
didnt receive a call back despite NS&I confirming to us that this is something they could 
have done. A call back before the final response letter may have resulted in her phone 
numbers being changed earlier and this in turn would have saved Mrs S trying to ring NS&I, 
or her having to email them, or contact them via social media. Our investigator has 
recommended £150 for what happened here. And NS&I have accepted her 
recommendation. So Im not minded to interfere with this amount of compensation. I say this 
as it would not be proportionate based on the circumstances of this complaint to award more 
than £150 compensation here. So it follows Ill be asking NS&I to put things right for Mrs S.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that NS&I pay Mrs S £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. National Savings and Investments should pay Mrs S £150 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman