DRN-3162925
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim made on her travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
 In January 2020, Ms L took out an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
AWP (the policy). The policy covered the period 5 March 2020 to 4 March 2021. Ms L had 
planned to visit two countries as part of a trip shed booked for March 2020 which Ill refer to 
as country U and country A. Her trip was due to last for around three weeks. 
As part of her trip, Ms L was due to fly from country U to country A on or around 19 March 
2020. Shed pre-paid for flights and accommodation. And it was from country A that she was 
due to fly back to the UK at the end of her trip. 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential international 
travel to country A on 16 March 2020. And that guidance remained in place at the time Ms L 
was due to depart country U for country A. And as such she was notified by the company, 
shed booked her flights through that the airline had cancelled her return flight to the UK from 
country A.
Ms L cut short her trip and did not travel on to country A, as planned. Instead, she arranged 
a flight back to the UK from country U, which departed on 19 March 2020. 
Once back in the UK, Ms L promptly made a claim on the policy for costs incurred in 
connection with curtailing her trip  totalling just over £3,000 - including the internal flight 
between country U and country A and accommodation costs in country A. 
AWP declined the claim because the reason which led to Ms Ls trip being cut short wasnt 
listed as an insured peril covered under the cancellation/curtailment section of the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy, Ms L complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. Although, 
the trip was cut short for a reason not listed in the cancellation/curtailment section of the 
policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting cover if shed travelled against 
the advice of the FCO. So, if Ms L hadnt cut short her trip and had been able to travel on to 
country A as planned, she wouldnt have had cover under the policy. As such, our 
investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for AWP to decline the claim for the 
reason it did. She concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim 
as covered under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy. And recommended AWP 
assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP didnt agree. So, this complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in her view dated September 
2021. 
The investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to 
this complaint. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
The IPID provided to us by AWP says at the top of page 1 that:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and 
conditions of the contract are shown on the policy document which you should read 
carefully to ensure you have the cover you need.
Under the heading What is insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it says: 
Cancelling/cutting short your journey - up to £3,000 in total for lost pre-paid travel 
and accommodation costs.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered? on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions:
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions set out the cancellation and curtailment terms. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy will pay for a policyholders claim:
should you necessarily have to cancel the projected trip before commencement or 
curtail it before completion as a result of:
The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the 
orders of a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under 
current redundancy legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police 
or government security staff, summoning to jury service or witness 
attendance in a court of you or your travelling companion.
The death, serious injury or illness of,
-    a close relative, or
-    the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey   
     destination, or
-a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which 
necessitates the presence of the person concerned
Hijack.
Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial 
point of departure at commencement of outward journey.
Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the 
request of an emergency service requires your presence.Pages 13 to 14 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to the policy. 
And page 14 (clause 10) says AWP wont pay:
 (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for any claim directly or 
indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection with
You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has 
advised against all travel or all but essential travel, unless agreed by or on
behalf of the insurer.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
Ill now explain what this all means in the context of this complaint and why Im satisfied 
AWP hasnt acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ms Ls claim for the reasons it has.
Ms L was due to travel on from country U to country A. But she curtailed her trip because 
shed been notified on 16 March 2020 that her return flight to the UK from country A had 
been cancelled. Further, by that date the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to 
country A. So instead of flying from country U to country A on 19 March 2020, she arranged 
a return flight to the UK on that date, departing from country U. 
Cutting short a trip for this reason isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which 
curtailment cover is provided. So, Ms Ls claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of their policy. 
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case for Ms L to have no cover when she had 
to curtail her trip. Ill explain why. 
The FCO exclusion means if Ms L had continued with her trip (and she was able to enter 
country A  which seems unlikely given the restrictions imposed by the authorities of country 
A at that time), she wouldve had no cover under the policy. So, the policy wouldve been no 
use to her at that point. But under the policy, she also wasnt covered if she curtailed her trip 
and returned to the UK. 
Ms L wouldve needed to cross refer between page 2 of the IPID, the cancelation/curtailment 
section of the policy (on page 18) and the general exclusions (on pages 13 and 14) to 
understand that there was no cover if cut short her trip because of a change in FCO advice 
part-way through her itinerary. 
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCO advice was 
clearly highlighted to the consumer in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. 
The cancellation/curtailment section of the policy doesnt list changes in FCO advice as a 
specific exclusion relevant to this section, so Ms L wouldve needed to read the terms and 
conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy, cross 
referring to different sections. I dont think thats fair or reasonable. Im persuaded a 
reasonable consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a 
more prominent and transparent way. 
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the policy wasnt clear to Ms L. She had no cover at all when FCO advice changed. I think this 
has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms L and AWP, shifting the 
rights and obligations under the policy significantly in AWPs favour. 
I think its unlikely that Ms L wouldve bought the policy if shed realised there would be no 
cover under the policy if FCO advice changed after shed bought the policy or began her trip. 
So, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under 
the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. 
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. And 
I note, as AWP says, the IPID does refer to general exclusions which are applicable to the 
policy. However, Ive considered whether the FCO exclusion arising from a change in FCO 
travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Ms L based on the policy documentation. And, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think it was. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP to assess the claim as if its covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation/curtailment section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and any applicable 
excess. 
My final decision
 I uphold Ms Ls complaint. I direct AWP P&C SA to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman