DRN-4321738
The complaint
Mrs K and her daughters Miss K, Miss K and Miss K have complained about a mortgage 
they hold with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd.
What happened
Mrs K and Misses K took out the mortgage in 2004, and since 2006 their mortgage has been 
on UCBs Self Certification FlexiPlus Variable Rate (SCVR).
The account has been in and out of arrears over the years, and since 2018 Mrs K and 
Misses K have been complaining to UCB about not being able to move to a new preferential 
interest rate.
In April 2018 UCB said they werent eligible for a new rate due to the arrears on the 
mortgage account, and that was still the case in September 2018 when a further complaint 
was made, albeit the policy had changed slightly by then so that the account only needed to 
have been out of arrears for two months before a new rate could be taken.
The arrears were cleared in October 2018 but it doesnt seem that Mrs K and Misses K 
applied for a new rate, and then a few months later the mortgage was back in arrears.
A further complaint was raised in late 2020, which UCB responded to in February 2021. UCB 
said, as a gesture of goodwill, it would rework the mortgage as if Mrs K and Misses K had, in 
October 2018, taken a fixed rate of 4.79% for two years (which was the best rate they were 
eligible for at that time). It said that rate would have ended in September 2020 and at that 
point they would have been eligible for another two-year fixed rate, this time at 3.29%, from 
1 October 2020. It said, if Mrs K and Misses K accepted the offer, then it would get the 
mortgage reworked. It also offered £500 compensation.
Another complaint was raised, this time about how the SCVR had varied over the years. 
UCB didnt uphold that complaint.
The complaint was referred to us and UCB didnt agree to us considering everything. It said 
we couldnt consider a complaint about taking a new preferential rate before October 2018 
as Mrs K and Misses K hadnt referred the October 2018 final response letter to us within the 
six months allowed in our rules. And the complaint about how the SCVR had varied, it said 
we could only consider that complaint in respect of the six-year period leading up to the 
complaint, so since March 2015.
One of my Ombudsman colleagues issued a decision about our jurisdiction in July 2022. In 
that he said we could consider the following complaint points:
Whether UCB should have offered a new interest rate  but only since 6 October 
2018; and
the level of the SCVR  but only since 30 March 2015.
Our Investigator then looked at those points and didnt uphold the complaint.  For the first 
point he said the offer UCB had already made was more than he would have been able to 
tell them to do since its offer was a reconstruction from 1 October 2018, five days before we 
could consider. For the second point he said the SCVR didnt track Bank of England Base 
rate (BoEBR), and he didnt think UCB had acted unreasonably in how it had varied (or not) 
its SCVR over the years.
Mrs K and Misses K didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A new interest rate
As my Ombudsman colleague confirmed, we can only consider a complaint about this point 
from 6 October 2018 onwards.
In 2021 UCB offered to rework the account as if a new two-year fixed rate had applied from 
1 October 2018, and then offered to put a new two-year fixed rate in place from September 
2020. The rates that were available were 4.79% fixed for two years from October 2018, and 
3.29% fixed for two years from October 2020.
Having considered everything Im satisfied those were the best rates that would have been 
available to Mrs K and Misses K at the relevant times.
Mrs K and Misses K have asked why a five-year fixed rate product hasnt been used. We 
have to decide cases without the use of hindsight and in 2018 the 4.79% two-year fixed rate 
was the lowest rate that Mrs K and Misses K were eligible for. Interest rates hadnt varied by 
any degree for a number of years, and there was no indication that was likely to change in 
the near future. The contact notes indicate they were struggling with the payments  and 
there was a long history of arrears - so I think it is likely, on balance, that they would have 
opted for the lowest payment they could at that point, rather than opting for a higher payment 
to obtain a longer-term fixed rate (if there was one available to them).
This worked in Mrs K and Misses Ks favour as by 2020 a lower rate was available to them, 
reducing the rate further from 4.79% to 3.29%. Had a longer-term fixed rate been selected 
for 2018 then they wouldnt be able to benefit from that lower rate, without a substantial early 
repayment charge being incurred. On the basis of a quick calculation it seems the reduction 
from 4.79% to 3.29% would reduce their payments by around £200 a month, and if a longer 
term fixed rate was put in place from 2018 they wouldnt then benefit from that reduction.
As I said, we cant use hindsight when deciding a complaint, so the fact interest rates have 
now risen substantially cant be taken into account when thinking about what we think Mrs K 
and Misses K would likely have done in 2018 and 2020. Both rates UCB have selected were 
the lowest rates Mrs K and Misses K were eligible for at the times in question and, having 
considered everything, on balance I think that is most likely what they would have opted for.
For that reason I consider UCBs offer to reconstruct the mortgage account as if it was on a 
two-year fixed rate of 4.79% from 1 October 2018 and then a two-year fixed rate of 3.29% 
from 1 October 2020 to be fair and reasonable. In addition I consider the offer of £500 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to also be fair.It is unfortunate that Mrs K and Misses K seem to have chosen to withhold their mortgage 
payments for a number of years, with the transaction history indicating in the period from 
January 2021 until June 2023 they only made the following payments:
January 2021 £482
February 2021 £200
July 2022 £250
Because of that I dont think UCB is treating them unfairly by being unwilling to put another 
preferential rate in place for when the October 2020 rate ended in 2022. Whilst Mrs K and 
Misses K said it isnt that they couldnt pay their mortgage, it was that they were choosing 
not to, that doesnt matter. The fact is their mortgage is in arrears and so they wouldnt be 
eligible for a new rate until after those arrears are cleared.
Since February 2021 it has been open to Mrs K and Misses K to accept UCBs offer to 
rework their mortgage onto the 4.79% for two years from October 2018, and then for it to 
have been moved onto the 3.29% rate from October 2020. Both UCB and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service have made it clear that offer could be accepted without any impact on 
our investigation, but Mrs K and Misses K chose to keep their mortgage on the SCVR and 
withhold payment instead.
I understand Mrs K and Misses K withheld their mortgage payments as they were unhappy 
with how UCB was dealing with matters. But Mrs K and Misses K were required to make the 
payment due each month as theyd agreed to do when they signed up for the account. Ive 
seen nothing to show that it was reasonable for Mrs K and Misses K to withhold payments. 
Even if a new rate had been put in place, payments would still have been due, albeit they 
would have been lower, so it wasnt proportionate for Mrs K and Misses K to withhold 
payment altogether.
How the SCVR has varied
I must consider whether from 30 March 2015 onwards, Mrs K and Misses K paid an unfairly 
high rate of interest. As my Ombudsman colleague explained, in considering the fairness of 
the interest charged since 30 March 2015, it will be necessary for me to consider what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This means that I will need to consider 
all the matters that contribute to and make up the interest charge added to the loan each 
month. And in turn that means considering the fairness of the interest rate used as the basis 
of the calculation.
In order to consider what is fair and reasonable I need to consider all the circumstances. I 
need to look at the impact of what may or may not have contributed to those charges  
including things that happened before 30 March 2015 which influenced the rate charged at 
that time.
Im satisfied that this is an essential part of determining whether or not the rate charged from 
30 March 2015 onwards was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But in the event 
that I find something unfair about what happened before that date, I can only consider its 
impact on the interest charged since then  and therefore any redress I would award would 
only cover interest charged since 30 March 2015. Thats because the complaint Im 
considering is that interest was unfairly charged from 30 March 2015 onwards.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves.Mrs K and Misses Ks mortgage agreement was that from 2006 the interest rate would be 
the SCVR. The terms and conditions document says:
10. CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES
10.1 Unless your Loan Proposal specifies a Fixed Rate Period, we may vary the interest rate 
applicable to the loan at any time upon giving you three days written notice of our 
intention to do so. We will only vary the interest rate for one or more of the following 
reasons:
(i) to reflect a change, or a change we expect to occur, in the cost of funds we use for 
our Mortgage lending;
(ii) to reflect any change in the law or decision by a court;
(iii) to reflect a change in regulatory requirements;
(iv) to reflect a change in the way the Property is used or occupied;
(v) to reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan.
Theres no general obligation on mortgage lenders for their SCVRs to track the BoEBR, and 
Im satisfied that this isnt the way UCBs SCVR operated.
Ive reviewed the documentation available, and having done so, I havent seen anything that 
says UCB would link the SCVR to the BoEBR or that compels it to. Nor is there anything that 
suggests that the SCVR would be a particular margin above or below the BoEBR.
It follows that Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for the SCVR to track the 
BoEBR or for UCB to maintain any margin between them.
Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which the 
terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mrs K and Misses K in the interest 
charged to them from 30 March 2015 onwards. In doing so, Ive considered the historic 
context which may have contributed to the interest rate charged from 30 March 2015 
onwards and whether UCB had legitimate reasons for varying the rate in the way it did.
I can see that between 2008 and 2009, the difference (or margin) between the BoEBR and 
UCBs SCVR increased from 2.29% to 4.49%. Whilst UCBs SCVR did reduce during this 
period, it didnt fall by the same proportion as the reduction in the base rate.
UCB has told our service that, despite a reduction in the BoEBR, its funding costs did not 
reduce to the same extent between 2008 and 2009.
During this time, there was a significant change in the wider lending market as a result of the 
global financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses, which was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at that time. 
UCB has provided relevant explanations and reasoning behind the decisions made to vary 
the interest rate during this period. This is supported by evidence that shows the direct 
impact of its cost of funding and how this correlated with its decision to vary the SCVR.
Considering this, I dont think UCB has acted unreasonably by not passing on all of the 
reductions in the BoEBR to its SCVR.
I can also see that, in February 2010, UCB increased the SCVR from 4.99% to 5.49% when 
there hadnt been any changes to the BoEBR. UCB has provided evidence to show that its cost of funds had increased and it increased the SCVR by 0.50% in order to account for 
those increased costs. The terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed it to increase the 
SCVR for this reason. Considering this, I dont think UCB acted unreasonably by doing this. 
In August 2016 the BoEBR fell by 0.25%, and then it increased back up by that same 
differential in November 2017. UCB didnt reflect either of those BoEBR changes with a 
change in its SCVR, keeping it at 5.49% throughout that period. UCB has told us that its cost 
of funding was impacted in 2016 due to the uncertainties around Brexit, which is why it didnt 
lower the SCVR at that time. By late 2017, when BoEBR increased back to its pre-August 
2016 level UCB said the market had settled enough that it was able to leave the SCVR 
untouched.
From November 2017 until March 2021 (which is the latest date I can consider as part of this 
complaint), UCBs SCVR remained at 4.99% above the BoEBR. 
Having considered all the information and evidence available to me, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest the changes UCB made (or didnt make) were unfair. Rather, the 
evidence Ive seen satisfies me that UCB acted in line with its terms and conditions to 
protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mrs K and Misses K 
fairly. And Im further satisfied that the evidence UCB has been able to provide for this period 
is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that UCB has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd has already made an offer to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. That offer is to rework the mortgage account 
as if it was on a 4.79% fixed rate from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2020, and a 3.29% 
fixed rate from 1 October 2020 to 30 September 2022. In addition, it offered to pay £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
So my decision is that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd should undertake the above in full 
and final settlement of this complaint (less any actions or payments already made).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K, Miss K, 
Miss K and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman