DRN-2458269
The complaint
Mrs L, on behalf of her business, has complained she was mis-sold a legal expenses 
insurance policy by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Ltd (NFUM).
Background
Mrs L, who is being represented by her husband Mr L in this complaint, had a Business 
Estates Select Insurance Policy between 2010 and 2020. This included cover for legal 
expenses insurance which could be added onto the basic policy for an additional cost. Mrs L 
opted to include the legal expenses insurance. 
Mr L has complained that the information provided by NFUM in 2019 was confusing and 
contradictory. He has said it was so unclear what the policy provided cover for as to render it 
unusable and so believes it was mis-sold to Mrs L on the basis that she couldnt have 
understood what the purpose of the policy was or what it provided cover for. 
NFUM disagree with Mr L. It has said that all of the relevant information was provided at the 
time and that it clearly sets out what sort of cover the policy provides and how it can be 
used. It believes it met the necessary regulations in how it presented information to Mrs L 
when it was renewed, and that she was given sufficient time to ask questions or seek 
clarification. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint already. She felt that the information 
provided by NFUM was reasonably set out and clear. She didnt think that it was so 
confusing as to amount to a failure on the part of the business and so she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr L disagreed with her assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and so its been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has provided us with a table of definitions he requested from both the underwriter and 
its legal agents. He says the definitions provided by the underwriter and its legal agents 
differ from each other, which he believes demonstrates that the NFUM provided customers 
with contradictory information in 2019 in regard to what its legal expenses insurance did and 
didnt cover at that time.
I have reviewed this table of definitions and disagree with Mr Ls assertions and dont believe 
the information provided categorically demonstrates that the information and descriptions set 
out in the policy documents are unreliable. The language used is necessarily broad in order 
to make it possible to apply it to a variety of different circumstances. This broadness isnt 
unusual or unique to the wording in NFUMs policy and isnt demonstrative of a failing on the 
part of the business. 
I appreciate Mr L was upset to receive, what he believed to be, two different interpretations 
of the same lists of clauses from the NFUM representative he dealt with and the legal agent 
representative he dealt with. However, I would expect the understanding of how a term may 
be applied in a legal claim would be different from how it is applied in a standard insurance 
claim, which is why Mr L wouldve received different interpretations of clauses from the 
underwriters representatives and the legal agents representatives. It is also why the 
underwriter uses a legal agent in the first place; because legal expenses cases require the 
support of legally trained representatives, which its own staff are unlikely to be. 
In addition, because Mrs L didnt need to claim on the policy at this point, when Mr L 
requested the definitions there was no real issue to link back to. So, the definitions provided 
were given in relation to fictious scenarios only. This means that neither the underwriters 
representative nor the legal agents representative could explain how the term would be 
applied in reality. Which again wouldve impacted on the subjective nature of the 
explanations provided. 
I do agree that the above was confusing and caused Mr L some upset, as he clearly tried to 
get to a definitive answer to his question and was unable to. However, as Mrs L never 
needed to claim on the policy after it was renewed in 2019, she hasnt suffered a loss as a 
result of the fact that Mr L received different interpretations of the policy from different 
sources. So, theres no evidence to support Mr Ls assertions that the policy wasnt fit for 
purpose. Indeed, I am aware that prior to 2019 a successful claim was made on the policy so 
when it was needed it appears that it did provide a benefit and Mr and Mrs L understood 
enough to know when they could rely on it.
Mr L has also said that because NFUM was unable to provide a succinct definition for him 
prior to the policys renewal in 2019, the business left him with no time to find alternative 
cover. I disagree that was the case. The insurance policy renewed at the same time every 
year and had been in place since 2010, meaning the renewal in 2019 was the ninth time 
Mrs L had decided to renew the policy. Therefore, I believe Mr and Mrs L wouldve known 
when the policy was due to be renewed and couldve taken it upon themselves to find 
alternative cover with another provider prior to the renewal date if Mrs L had wanted to. 
In addition to that Mr and Mrs L had raised complaints with this service in the past around 
the definition and interpretation of words within the same policy and so I believe they were 
aware at that point they disagreed with how some aspects of the policy were set out and 
couldve looked for an alternative provider then. In addition, I note NFUM sent a 
representative to Mr and Mrs Ls home to discuss the renewal before it went through and 
that changes were made at Mrs Ls request and so it seems she had the opportunity to 
question the policy in depth during that meeting. 
Therefore, having taken everything into consideration I dont agree that the policy was mis-
sold to Mrs L in 2019. Shes not suffered any detriment as a result of taking the policy and 
Mr L has been unable to prove that it wasnt fit for purpose. So, I wont be asking NFUM to 
do anything more in relation to Mrs Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against The National 
Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society LimitedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman