DRN-3185881
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies that Mr and Mrs S took out in connection with their 
mortgage. The first policy was taken out in 1997, and the second in 2000 when Mr and Mrs 
S arranged some further borrowing. The 1997 policy provided Mrs S with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. The 2000 policy provided cover for both Mr and Mrs S.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs? 
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policies? 
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different - 
such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
 
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI and that Lloyds didnt give 
them a proper choice about taking it. They say Lloyds told them they had to take the PPI to 
arrange the borrowing they wanted. Regarding the 1997 sale, Mr and Mrs S have provided a 
copy of a letter they received from Lloyds about the PPI. They consider this letter implied 
that the mortgage was conditional on buying the PPI. 
Ive noted everything that Mr and Mrs S have said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds when the policies were sold. 
Ive reviewed the records that Lloyds has provided from the points of sale, together with the 
evidence that Mr and Mrs S have provided. I note that the letter from Lloyds says Mr and 
Mrs Ss 1997 mortgage application was being processed, even though they hadnt applied 
for PPI at that stage. 
Despite the content of the letter, Im not persuaded there is anything to suggest that the 
mortgage application wouldnt be successful if Mr and Mrs S didnt buy the policy. So I dont 
consider the letter amounted to undue pressure from Lloyds to buy the PPI.
In addition, there is nothing in the documentation for the 2000 mortgage application to 
suggest that it was conditional on Mr and Mrs S taking out the PPI.
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S a choice about buying 
the policies.
The lender has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the policies and it doesnt 
look like they were unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 
1997 and 2000. I say this because:
- Mrs S was eligible for the 1997 policy given her circumstances at the time and the 
PPI terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs S were both eligible for the 2000 policy.
- Mr and Mrs S say they would have received some work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. Mrs S 
says she had critical illness cover too. But the policies would have paid out in 
addition to Mr and Mrs Ss occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for 
longer. Having the policies in place would mean Mr and Mrs S could use their work-
related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. 
In addition, I cant safely say that Mrs Ss critical illness cover wouldve paid out in the 
same circumstances as the PPI, so this point doesnt change my overall conclusions 
about the complaint. I think Mr and Mrs S would have had some use for the policies 
despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they couldve benefited from the full extent of the cover, I dont 
think they needed better advice or information about the policies exclusions and 
limitations. 
- Lloyds provided a quote for the 1997 policy before Mrs S took it out, so I think she 
and Mr S knew how much they would be paying for the policy and found it 
acceptable. 
I cant be sure that the cost of the 2000 policy was made clear to Mr and Mrs S 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs S took out the policy knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was 
unaffordable or that the benefits werent enough to cover their monthly mortgage repayments. So I dont think better information about the policys cost wouldve 
changed Mr and Mrs Ss decision to buy the PPI.
Its possible the information the lender gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs S werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman