DRN-4069436
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with how AWP P&C SA dealt with claims she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss O has explained that in June 2021 she purchased flights to travel abroad  the flights 
being for herself, her partner and her son. The outward flight was for 20 December 2021, 
with the return flight being 10 January 2022. 
Unfortunately, on 19 December 2021, Miss Os son tested positive for Coronavirus. So, he 
was no longer able to travel abroad. Miss O has said she let her travel agent know her son 
wouldnt be coming with her abroad, as well as informing the check-in desk when she got to 
the airport. The travel agent would look to seek any refund that could be gained for her sons 
flight with the airline.
Miss O and her partner travelled abroad as planned. But before she was due to fly home, 
she also tested positive for Coronavirus. So, she wasnt able to take her flight home. 
Because of this Miss O contacted her travel insurance for assistance. It paid for a hotel, for 
the additional time she had to stay abroad. But Miss O has explained she had to pay for her 
food and her laundry whilst still abroad, as well as for additional Coronavirus tests. 
AWP purchased a new flight for Miss O to return home, But Miss O explained it had booked 
the wrong cabin  so it wasnt an equivalent flight to the one she had originally booked. Miss 
O told AWP of this, who informed her she should pay to remedy the issue, and make a claim 
on her return home, when she could be refunded the additional cost of the flight.
When Miss O returned home, she said she made two claims. One for the cost of her sons 
flight, and one for the additional expenses she incurred in needing to stay abroad longer 
than planned.
Miss O has said that there were long delays in the progress of the claims. She said she was 
asked for information, which she provided. But then nothing would happen. Miss O said she 
needed to chase the matter for updates too. As Miss O was dissatisfied with the service, she 
was receiving she made a complaint to AWP.
AWP looked into Miss Os complaint and responded to it in June 2022. AWP accepted there 
had been delays in the progression of Miss Os claims. It said this was due to the high 
volume of claims it was receiving, which meant it wasnt able to respond as promptly as it 
would like to. 
AWP said there was some outstanding information Miss O needed to provide in relation to 
her losses, and that the claims department had written to her, to tell her what was needed to 
progress the matter. But it offered Miss O £25 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced because of the delays. 
Miss O didnt accept the offer of £25 and remained dissatisfied with the matter. So, she 
referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. When referring her 
complaint to this service Miss O said her losses still hadnt been settled. 
In March 2023, AWP told this service it had waived the need for further information on 
Miss Os claim for her sons missed flight and settled the claim on 28 February 2023. And it 
settled the claim. In April 2023 AWP confirmed it would do the same for the remaining claim, 
and Miss O would receive settlement for that claim within 10 working days.
Our investigator considered this complaint and upheld it. They considered that there were 
delays caused by AWP, that caused distress and inconvenience to Miss O. They also 
thought there were times the claim didnt progress because Miss O hadnt provided the 
information she was asked for. The investigator considered £150 to be a fairer and more 
reasonable amount of compensation for the delays caused by AWP, so recommended AWP 
pay this.
AWP agreed. Miss O didnt. She felt £150 was too low.
As Miss O didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, and require AWP to pay £150 
compensation in total to Miss O. Ive explained why below.
Its important to note that Miss Os claims have been settled. This complaint isnt about those 
settlements  but rather about the time taken for these settlements to be provided to Miss O. 
As this is the case, this decision focuses on the time taken for AWP to handle the claims. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonable decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether AWP acted in line with these requirements when it handled 
Miss Os claims.
And I dont think it did. I say this because Im satisfied there were times when AWP could 
have progressed the claim more efficiently and provided a better service to Miss O. For 
example, it took AWP a couple of months for AWP to contact Miss O following her initial 
contact to claim for her sons flight costs. And I agree with our investigator that there were 
occasions when AWP could have been more proactive in progressing the claim. 
AWP accept some delays were caused by it, and there were times it could have been more 
proactive. So, I havent needed to consider this any further. Instead, Ive needed to think 
about what a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint is.
Having done so, Im satisfied £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
complaint. I say this whilst the situation may not have had a day-to-day impact on Miss O, 
she did need to chase AWP for the matter to be progressed, and for updates on occasion. 
I can also see there was some confusion about how the claims were being handled. Initially 
the losses were set up as two separate claims  one for Miss Os sons missed flight, and 
one for Miss Os extended stay abroad, as is usual. But these were later, incorrectly, amalgamated into one claim, before being separated again. It would have been troubling 
and upsetting for Miss O to need to chase her claim and seek to understand how the losses 
were being dealt with. And I think £150 fairly recognises this trouble and upset. 
Miss O has said she considers £150 compensation to be too low. And I have considered 
this. But I dont agree. I also have to bear in mind that Miss O was asked for certain 
information to progress her claims, such as a no-show letter for her sons missed flight, that 
Miss O didnt supply when asked, and this also caused delays to the settlement of her 
losses. And whilst I understand there may have been reasons why Miss O didnt supply that 
information or do so promptly, I dont hold AWP accountable for that. That was out of its 
control. Im satisfied £150 is fair and reasonable for the delays and customer service issues 
AWP was responsible for. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require AWP P&C SA to pay Miss O £150 
compensation. I dont require it do so anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman