DRN-3695248
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) raised the credit limit on his 
credit card without his knowledge and this has negatively impacted him financially. He also 
complains that his account statements were sent to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr T says that Halifax increased his credit limit from £2,800 to £3,800 without his knowledge. 
He said this led to his account being defaulted as he says he would have been able to repay 
the original limit.  Mr T adds that when his account statements were sent to the wrong 
address, they were opened by an estranged family member, which caused him distress.
Halifax upheld Mr Ts complaint, removed the default from his account and paid him £200 for 
the upset it caused. It also apologised for sending the statements to the wrong address, 
updated its systems and paid Mr T a further £250.
Mr T said that he did not feel the compensation was enough as he said the issues would 
negatively affect him in the future.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Halifaxs response to the consequences of the credit limit increase was fair and reasonable. 
He also found the compensation paid for the error with the account statements was 
appropriate to the circumstances.
Mr T responded to say, in summary, that the outcome has not fully taken into account the 
mental impact this has had or the effect on the cost of credit hes taken out since Halifax 
increased his limit. He says both these things are impossible to evidence and the call 
recordings would have shown he was passed from pillar to post before he actually made a 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence to show that Halifax agreed that Mr Ts credit limit should not have been 
increased from £2,800 to £3,800 in May 2019 when he was in persistent debt. As Mr T had 
made payments roughly equal to his original credit limit in May 2020, Halifax agreed the 
account should be marked as partially settled, the default removed, and the remaining 
balance written off. I can see it also refunded the interest that was charged on balances over 
the original credit limit.
In terms of the outcome on Mr Ts credit card account, and his credit file, I consider this was 
a fair and reasonable response from Halifax.
As Mr T specifically referred to the calls in his response, I have also considered everything 
he's said about these, alongside all Halifaxs customer contact notes. I can see he needed to 
speak to multiple agents to get a response to his complaint. I can understand how frustrating 
this must have been for Mr T, but I find compensation of £200 for this, and the stress the 
situation caused, is fair for the upset and inconvenience he was caused in the circumstances 
here.
I also acknowledge that Mr T says that his credit agreements subsequent to the Halifax 
credit limit increase have been negatively impacted. However, without evidence of a direct 
financial detriment I cannot conclude Halifaxs award should be higher.
Finally, I accept that the statements going to the wrong address caused Mr T further 
distress, especially given the relationship he had with the recipient. But again, I find Halifaxs 
award of £250 to be reasonable taking into account the effect this had on Mr T.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman