DRN-1630166
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited applied £404.23 worth of interest 
on his account. He says he didnt know Shop Direct could apply such a high amount by 
backdating the interest from the date of purchase.
What happened
Mr S has an account with Shop Direct, under the Very Brand. Mr S purchased an item for 
£1,109 on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) deal for 12 months. Mr S thought that after 12 
months, the outstanding balance would be charged at the standard rate of 39% APR. He 
was not happy when Shop Direct applied interest of £404.23 once the 12-month BNPL 
period was over. Mr S did not know that Shop Direct could backdate the interest from the 
date of the purchase and apply interest on interest. 
Shop Direct sent Mr S a final response letter on 23 May 2019. In it, they said that all BNPL 
purchases are listed on all statements from the date of order, with details of the amount to 
pay and due dates. Further reminders are provided on the front of the summary pages of the 
two statements prior to the due date. These details were also available prior to, and during 
the purchase process. 
On statement 20 a payment of £454.68 was due by 29 March 2019 to settle the cash price 
for the item. As a payment of £300 was received, the balance wasnt cleared in full. Shop 
Direct have said that the BNPL interest of £404.23 was correctly applied on the account. 
They added that the account terms and conditions are also available online for customers to 
view details on how to avoid paying interest on any BNPL order by paying the full cash price 
by the end of the payment free period. Shop Direct also said that the date which the 
payment free period expires, is also provided on the statements and it can be viewed online 
within the Transaction History tab within the account. 
Shop Direct were satisfied that they would have explained all the necessary information to 
Mr S. This would have made him aware that he needed to settle the BNPL before the due 
date in order to avoid interest. 
However, Shop Direct did acknowledge that the service Mr S had received from them could 
have been better. Mr S experienced poor customer service on multiple occasions whilst he 
was trying to raise a complaint. Shop Direct credited Mr S with £50 for the trouble and upset 
that the matter had caused. Mr S felt that this was not enough, he wanted a larger sum. 
On one occasion, Mr S was on a call to a customer advisor, during the call Mr S thought that 
a representative of Shop Direct from India was trying to access his Google account. He 
wanted us to look into this further. 
Our investigator concluded that the BNPL terms and conditions were sufficiently clear for Mr 
S to have understood how interest would be calculated and charged if the purchase balance 
wasnt cleared in full by the end of the BNPL period. He found Shop Direct had charged 
interest correctly, both on the purchase balance and on the interest that it added.
The investigator found no reason to believe that Shop Direct was trying to access Mr Ss 
account. And he felt that the payment of £50 was reasonable for the poor customer service 
that Mr S received. 
Mr S is unhappy with the view, he explains that Shop Direct did not explain to him that he 
would need to pay 12 months of interest. He has also explained that his statements were 
online, which he never agreed to. Mr S is convinced that a Shop Direct representative from 
India has tried to access his account whilst he was on the phone to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BNPL is where a financial business offers consumers an opportunity to delay paying for their 
purchases for a set period of time. If the balance isnt cleared by the end of the BNPL period, 
the consumer will be charged the full amount of interest for the term of the deal which can 
result in a large interest payment. The lender should make clear when the BNPL is coming 
to an end. This is usually set out on the statements in order to provide notice. 
Mr S purchased the item online. To complete his order, he would have been required to 
accept the BNPL terms and conditions. I have seen that that information explains what a 
BNPL is, how the interest is calculated, how to avoid interest and what happens if you do not 
make a full payment. Mr S would have been given the opportunity to read this information at 
the time of purchase and press OK, Select BNPL in order to proceed further with the 
purchase. 
The terms and conditions of the account state If you have not paid the cash price in full or 
have made a partial payment, a lump sum of interest will be charged to your Very account. 
Any outstanding balance plus the interest will now become payable on your account As 
the outstanding balance, plus the interest now form part of your payable balance they will 
attract interest at your account rate, meaning you will pay interest on interest. 
The BNPL terms and conditions explain that customers can avoid all interest by paying the 
cash price in full before the term ends. Partial payments will reduce the lump sum of 
compound interest at the end of the delayed payment period. 
As Mr S would not have been able to proceed forward without seeing the terms and 
conditions, he would have had the opportunity to review the above information. The 
information would have also been readily available for him to review online after the sale had 
been completed. I am satisfied that Shop Direct have provided Mr S with the relevant 
information that ought to make him aware of how the account works. 
All of the statements provide details of the estimated interest that is due whilst explaining the 
payment that is required to avoid interest. In particular, statement 20 dated 9 March 2019 
explains a total cash price of £454.68 was outstanding by 29 March 2019 in order to avoid 
paying an estimated interest of £404.23. I have noted that the amount of deferred interest 
has reduced from £464.36 to £404.23 because Mr S has made partial payments. 
I have taken on board that Mr S wanted his statements to be posted to him instead of being 
available online. I would have expected Mr S to raise this matter with Shop Direct sooner as 
it would have given them the opportunity to address the matter. Nonetheless, I am satisfied 
that Mr S had an awareness of the online statements, this would have made the information readily available to him and therefore highlighted the amount of payment that is due and by 
when in order to avoid the interest.  
The call recordings that have been provided by Shop Direct confirm that Mr S did experience 
a level of poor customer service. I can see that Shop Direct have acknowledged their service 
shortcomings. The apology and payment of £50 is fair and reasonable. 
I can understand why Mr S would show concern about someone trying to potentially access 
his Google account. However, I have been unable to find any reason that would prompt me 
to hold Shop Direct accountable for this. There is no persuasive evidence to suggest that 
they have tried to access his account. I am satisfied with their response, though Mr S can 
take the matter up with Google if he so wishes.  
Taking the above into consideration, I appreciate that Mr S may not have realised the 
amount of interest that is potentially due. However, I am satisfied that Mr S ought to have 
known about this in light of the information available to him as mentioned in the terms and 
conditions, and the statements. Shop Direct have correctly applied the interest and was 
entitled to charge interest on that interest in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I am satisfied that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
have acted fairly and reasonably under the circumstances of this complaint. I will not be 
asking them to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman