DRN-3463319
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt processed his 
claim or repaired his phone under his mobile phone insurance. Any reference to actions by 
AIG incudes those of its agents.
What happened
Mr B had mobile phone insurance for several years as a paid for product through his bank. 
In July 2021 his phone was water damaged and wouldnt turn on. Mr B made a claim under 
his policy and AIG asked him to remove the phone locator function. Mr B asked for advice 
how to do that without his phone, and AIG provided instructions by webchat. Although Mr B 
said hed removed the function, AIG said it was still showing as active.
AIG explained that until the function was removed, it wouldnt be able to process Mr Bs 
claim.
Mr B tried to fix the phone himself but eventually bought a replacement. He complained to 
AIG because of the time he was without a phone due to its failure to accept his claim.
Our investigator didnt think AIG had done anything wrong. He said the policy terms and 
conditions say that a policyholder must remove the phone locator function before sending it 
to AIG for repair. As Mr B hadnt done that, our investigator accepted that AIG had 
responded to the claim in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr B hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain.
Claim not processed
The issue is that AIG hasnt accepted Mr Bs claim, so hes been without a phone. AIG said it 
would look at repairing the phone once Mr B removed the phone location function.
Ive looked at the policy and it says:
How to file a claim
Step 3: For Damage or Breakdown claims, if Your Device has any software locking 
mechanism (e.g. Find My iPhone/iPad or similar feature), You must disable or remove the 
software and confirm that You have done so to [the insurer] before [the insurer] can 
proceed with Your claim.
The policy is clear in its requirement for Mr B to remove the phone locator function, and AIG 
highlighted this point when he raised his claim. I understand AIG asks policyholders to do 
this because, otherwise, the function blocks access to the phone.
Although Mr B said hed removed the function after receiving advice from the webchat 
support, AIG could see it was still active. Therefore, AIG wouldnt accept Mr Bs phone until 
he removed the function.
It may be a technical issue preventing Mr B from removing the function, but that doesnt 
mean AIG has done anything wrong. Its terms and conditions clearly say the function must 
be removed, but AIG isnt responsible for removing it. AIG hasnt said it wont progress the 
claim  instead it will investigate the damage once Mr B removes the function and sends in 
his phone.
Therefore, Im satisfied that AIG hasnt done anything wrong here.
New phone
Mr B went on to buy a replacement phone because he was without his for so long, and it 
was essential for work.
The policy provides for a repair first, and AIG hasnt yet had the chance to complete a repair. 
As Ive decided AIG isnt responsible for the delay accepting the claim, I cant reasonably 
say its responsible for the costs Mr B incurred in trying to repair his phone or when he 
bought a new phone.
I wont be asking AIG to do anything here.
Premium refund
Mr B is unhappy that he paid for a service he hasnt received. Hes asked for a refund of his 
premiums.
AIG hasnt refused to deal with his claim  it has just asked him to comply with the policy 
requirements. That isnt unreasonable and Id expect Mr B to meet the policy requirements 
when making a claim. AIG hasnt declined Mr Bs claim, so the service he paid for is 
available to him. I dont think AIG has acted unfairly.
Overall, the evidence shows that AIG will investigate Mr Bs claim once he removes the 
phone locator function from his phone. I dont think AIG has done anything wrong in its 
handling of this complaint, so I cant reasonably say AIG hasnt provided the service Mr B 
paid for.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman