DRN-2728125
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his travel insurance claim. My 
references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
On 12 March 2020 Mr R bought a single trip Post Office travel insurance policy, insured by 
Great Lakes. 
Mr R was due to travel abroad on 13 to 16 March 2020 departing the UK at 16:40. He was 
holidaying with several people and some had taken an earlier flight the same day. Mr R  
says 30 minutes before he was due to board the flight on 13 March his friends already 
abroad contacted him. The travel representative at the hotel told them that afternoon the 
government of the relevant country had declared a state of emergency and lockdown 
restrictions due to Covid-19 with effect from 14 March 2020. They were told they would be 
confined to the hotel.
Mr R said he spoke to his airline who told him if he travelled he could be stranded at his 
intended destination as flights were being cancelled. He decided not to board the plane and 
claimed for his holiday costs.
Although the government of the relevant country announced on 13 March 2020 that a 
lockdown was to start the next day that was delayed and there was a further announcement 
the following evening with full lockdown starting on 15 March 2020.
On 15 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to the relevant country. 
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said Mr Rs policy covered trips cancelled as a result of 
FCO advice but Mr R cancelled his trip before the FCO advice was in place so there was no 
cover.
Mr R complained to us. He said Great Lakes decision was unfair as he would have been 
stupid to travel with the risk of getting stranded abroad and his travelling companions had 
their claims paid by their insurers.
Our investigator said Great Lakes fairly declined the claim.
Mr R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made a decision as the policy terms Great Lakes sent us didnt provide cover for 
FCO advice I asked Great Lakes for the correct policy terms or additional 
documents/information which confirmed the cover. Ill refer to the documents received in my 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says his travelling companions claims have been paid, but I need to make a decision 
about whether Great Lakes declined the claim unreasonably given its policy terms. So 
whether or not other insurers paid the claims doesnt affect my decision.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The main policy document says:
Cancellation cover applies if You have booked a Trip to take place within the Period 
of Insurance, but You are forced to cancel Your travel plans, 
and 
Curtailment cover applies if You are forced to cut short a Trip You have commenced, 
and return to Your Home Country.
The policy also says when cover starts :
Cancellation cover starts when You purchase this insurance or when You book Your 
Trip, whichever is the latter.
Cover for all other sections of Your policy will start from the start date shown on Your 
Policy Certificate or, if later, when You leave Your Home or usual place of business 
at the start of Your journey.
Great Lakes has treated Mr Rs claim as a cancellation claim. Given the policy wording 
above as hed already left home when he decided not to continue with the trip I think this is 
curtailment claim. My decision would be the same if Mr R hadnt left home before he decided 
not to go on the trip, which would be cancellation.
The main policy document Great Lakes sent us lists insured events that are covered under 
the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. Cancellation or curtailment due to FCO 
advice isnt one of the insured events in the main policy.
However, Great Lakes 22 July 2020 letter to Mr R said as hed bought the policy between 
27 February 2020 and 17 March 2020 the policy gave additional cover for trips cancelled 
due to FCO advice. Great Lakes told us it decided to cover a change in FCO advice for a 
brief period and the policy wording wasnt updated due to the fast moving Covid-19 situation. 
Instead it issued relevant policyholders with a FAQ about the insurance cover and Covid-19 
which it sent us. 
The FAQs say that Mr R would be covered if he had to cut short or cancel his trip if the FCO 
advised against all but essential travel to his destination. But at the time Mr R cut short his 
trip on the 13 March the FCO hadnt given that advice, it didnt give that advice until 
15 March 2020. So there is no cover for Mr Rs claim under the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether Great Lakes fairly and reasonably declined the claim. I think 
Mr R made a very understandable decision not to travel when he heard about the impending lockdown at his destination and the airline staff told him there would be potential difficulties  
returning home.
But I dont think I can reasonably say Great Lakes has to pay the claim as there was no FCO 
advice not to travel in place when Mr R decided not to travel. And although at the point Mr R 
cut short his trip the government of the relevant country had announced an expected 
lockdown the following day theres an exclusion in the cancellation and curtailment section of 
the policy that says:
What is not covered...
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of 
the booked Trip due to government action.
Which means cutting short or cancelling a trip due to the relevant countrys government 
lockdown announcement specifically isnt covered by the policy terms. 
So not only is the reason for the curtailment of Mr Rs trip not covered as a listed, insured 
event under his policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the 
circumstances of his claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. I think he acted reasonably but I dont think his claim is covered 
under the terms and conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman