DRN-2748066
The complaint
Mrs M complains Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance 
policy. 
Mrs M is represented by her husband. But for ease Ill refer to both their actions as Mrs Ms 
actions.
What happened
In late 2019 Mrs M made a claim on her pet insurance policy saying her cat, F, was missing. 
Fairmead asked her to provide information to validate the claim. In particular, it wanted proof 
that Mrs M had purchased F.
Mrs M said she didnt have this information, so Fairmead said it would offer her £75 to settle 
the claim. Mrs M didnt think this was enough given how much a cat like F costs. She 
complained. Fairmead responded to say without the relevant evidence it would only pay 
Mrs M £75.
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
concluded, in summary, that Fairmead has handled the claim fairly as she hadnt provided 
proof of purchase. Mrs M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy says, amongst other things:
If your pet strays or is stolen we will pay a contribution;
i. Where proof of purchase is available; up to the price paid or the amount shown in 
the schedule or;
ii. Where proof of purchase is not available; up to £75 for a cat 
Mrs M claims F was worth, according to the policy schedule, £1,800. I can see why she was 
disappointed to be offered £75. But I think Fairmead settled the claim fairly, and in line with 
the policy. I say this because to-date, and despite several requests from Fairmead and our 
service, Mrs M hasnt provided proof of purchase. Nor has she provided any other 
circumstantial evidence to prove the purchase, such as details of a card payment or bank 
transfer to the seller, or details of the seller.
In any case, there are other issues with the validation of this claim. Its unclear what the 
circumstances around Fs loss are and whether Mrs M attempted to find her in the way the 
policy required. And its unclear whether F is still lost given the seller appears to be in 
possession of her. 
Im also aware Mrs M is unhappy with delays with her claim. But I dont think Fairmead 
caused any avoidable delays as it was mostly waiting for information from Mrs M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman