DRN-3459458
The complaint and background
Miss K complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt treat her fairly when defaulting her account. 
Miss Ks account went into an unarranged overdraft in July 2021. In July and August Miss K 
spoke with TSB about the debt, but due to her circumstances she was unable to agree a 
plan to repay the debt at that time. TSB stopped adding any interest to Miss Ks outstanding 
balance in September 2021.
In November 2021 TSB wrote to Miss K to say she needed to repay the overdrawn balance, 
or her account would be suspended. As a result of this letter Miss K got back in touch with 
TSB to discuss a way forward. TSB took details of her income and expenditure at that time 
and determined that she didnt have any surplus income with which to repay the debt. So, 
TSB said it would need to pass Miss Ks account to its recoveries department, which would 
mean a default would be recorded on Miss Ks credit file.
Miss K asked for more time to see if she could repay the debt, and TSB agreed to put a hold 
on her account for 30 days. TSBs notes state that it told Miss K she should call back if her 
situation improved. When Miss K didnt get back in touch with TSB or repay the debt within 
the 30 days, TSB sent another letter stating that it would be defaulting the account if the debt 
was not repaid within 12 days. When the debt was not repaid within that time frame, the 
account was defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency.
Miss K was unhappy that her account had been defaulted and complained to TSB, she says 
she didnt get the letter in December giving her 12 days to repay the debt, and she feels TSB 
should have tried other ways of contacting her to see if she could now repay the overdrawn 
balance. Miss K wants the default removed and for TSB to agree a repayment plan with her.
TSB looked at Miss Ks complaint, it felt that it had acted reasonably. Miss K remained 
unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ks concerns, she felt that TSB hadnt acted unfairly 
in how it defaulted Miss Ks account. Miss K disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly here. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
Miss K feels she could have avoided the default on her account if TSB had taken steps to 
contact her by phone or email rather than simply writing to her in December 2021 as she 
says she didnt receive that letter. But the December 2021 letter was sent to the same 
address as all the other letters that TSB sent to Miss K and that she did receive. And the 
majority of post is delivered correctly. So short of any industrial action or other issue which 
might have caused the letter to be undelivered  and Im not aware of any relevant issues 
such as that here  I think its more likely than not that Miss K did receive the letter in 
December 2021. 
But in any case, Miss K has said that what she wants TSB to do now is to arrange a 
repayment plan with her. So it seems that she is still unable to repay the outstanding debt in 
full, and to me that suggests that even if TSB had contacted her by phone or email in 
December 2021 she would not have been able to repay the debt in full at that time and so 
would not have been able to avoid the default.
And given that TSB had carried out several reviews of Miss Ks income and expenditure 
which suggested she could not afford to repay the debt, that the account had been in an 
overdrawn position for an extended period of time, and that Miss K has still not been able to 
repay the outstanding balance, I think that the default is an accurate representation of 
Miss Ks financial position regarding this account.
With all this in mind, I think TSB acted fairly in defaulting Miss Ks account how and when it 
did. So I wont be asking it to remove the default from Miss Ks credit file.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss K, but this means I wont be 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman