DRN-3093538
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim for 
a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy.   
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy was 
purchased in October 2019. 
Mr and Mrs T were due to travel to a country, which Ill call S, with their family on 1 August 
2020. On 26 June 2020, Mr and Mrs Ts outbound flight to S was cancelled. At this time, the 
UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) was advising against all but essential international travel due 
to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And, on Mr and Mrs Ts intended departure 
date, S wasnt on the list of countries which were exempt from FCDO advice against all but 
essential international travel. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their policy with URV for their unused, non-refundable 
costs but URV said their policy didnt cover the circumstances they found themselves in. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr and Mrs Ts claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of their policy. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
Page 1 of the Insurance Production Information Document (IPID), which summarises the 
cover available under Mr and Mrs Ts policy with URV, says:
Are there any restrictions on cover? 
! Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination
The policy terms and conditions, at page 12 under the heading What is not covered  
applicable to all sections of the policy says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:  
Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel.
Page 16 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section A1  Cancellation 
charges sets out the cover available if the policyholder is unable to go on their trip. The 
terms and conditions say URV will pay certain costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the 
following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications arising as a direct result 
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy 
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to 
believe anyone would be made redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have you/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due 
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the reason for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ts 
holiday was because Mr and Mrs T were being quarantined. Mr and Mrs T have told us that 
the cancellation of their outbound flight on 26 June 2020 led to them contacting their 
accommodation provider and the airline operating their inbound flight in order to cancel the 
trip in its entirety. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ts trip was cancelled because their 
airline cancelled their outbound flight (presumably, in part, because of FCDO travel 
restrictions as a result of Covid-19). An airline cancelling a flight isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the cancellation 
section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy, as its not a specific or listed insured event. Ive also 
reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy, but I dont think they 
held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.  
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
industry guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case. 
At the time Mr and Mrs Ts trip was cancelled, the FCDO was advising against all but 
essential travel to S. While this advice subsequently changed, S wasnt exempt from FCDO 
advice against all but essential travel on Mr and Mrs Ts intended departure date either. 
The policy exclusion outlined on page 12 of the terms and conditions excludes cover under 
any section of the policy if a policyholder is travelling against FCDO advice. This means, if 
Mr and Mrs T had travelled abroad as planned (if it was possible to do so), they wouldnt 
have been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms and 
conditions of their policy, cancellation of a trip due to changes in FCDO guidance also isnt 
covered. This means Mr and Mrs T were left in a situation where they had no cover if they 
travelled, but they also had no cover if they cancelled their trip. I dont think this was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information 
was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the 
combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to them. 
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs T and 
URV. I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have purchased this policy if they had realised 
there was no cover if FCDO guidance changed after they bought the policy. And, Im 
satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover cancellation claims arising from 
changes to FCDO advice were widely available on the market at the time Mr and Mrs T 
bought this policy in October 2019. So, I think its likely Mr and Mrs T would have been able 
to buy alternative insurance which did cover the circumstances they ultimately found 
themselves in. 
I note this policy contains an exclusion relating to the fear of a pandemic on page 16. 
However, I dont think this specific exclusion applies to Mr and Mrs Ts claim, as I dont think 
this was the reason they cancelled their holiday. Ive also taken into account the comments 
which URV made in response to our investigators recommendations, but these dont change 
my decision. 
Putting things right
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mr and Mrs Ts claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of their policy. Union Reiseversicherung AG should therefore assess the 
claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman