DRN-1284433
 
The complaint
Ms W says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy in December 1998. 
What happened
Ms W purchased an MPPI policy in December 1998 when she took out a mortgage with 
Halifax. The policy cost £10.12 each month and it covered Ms W in the event she lost her job 
and was unemployed or if she wasnt working due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve 
provided a monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely Halifax made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take out the MPPI and she 
chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if she cant remember this given 
the meeting took place more than 20 years ago. I say this because in order to take out the 
MPPI, customers needed to complete and sign a separate application form. And Ive seen a 
copy of Ms Ws MPPI application form  Mortgage Repayment Insurance Application she 
signed this in December 1998.
Its impossible for me to know what, if anything, Ms W was told about the policy when she 
discussed it with the adviser, and I accept its possible she was told she had to have it. 
However, having weighed up the available evidence, I think its more likely she was told she 
should purchase MPPI, rather than told she must purchase MPPI. So, taking this into 
account along with what I know about how these sales were conducted, Im satisfied the 
policy was optional and I think its more likely that Ms W was given a choice about the MPPI.
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms W. And for the reasons set out below I think it was 
suitable for her, taking into account the policy benefits, cost of cover and her broader 
financial circumstances at that time. And I dont think its likely that she wouldve acted 
differently; and not taken out the policy, if shed been better advised and informed. I say this 
because:
The policy covered Ms W and given her circumstances at the time of the sale, (and 
taking account of the policy conditions), I am satisfied she was eligible for the cover.
 Her circumstances do not suggest that she wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements - she told us she was employed 
and in good health. So, she could expect to benefit from the full extent of the cover 
provided by this policy.
 
Whilst Ms W received some occupational benefits; between six and twelve months 
sick pay, this does not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is 
because if she were unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. 
 
Ms W told us she had some savings  but the policy would also have allowed Ms W 
to leave these savings for the purpose that shed intended as well as other essential 
expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially if she wasnt working.
 
Ms Ws mortgage represented a significant debt and there would be serious 
implications for her, as the sole borrower, if she were unable to make the mortgage 
repayments. It is reasonable to think someone in this situation would want to make 
sure they were protected, if they faced the unfortunate situation of being unable to 
work for an extended period of time.
 
So, Im satisfied that if a recommendation was made, the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for someone in her circumstances.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Halifax sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around 
£10.12 per month. And it seems to me that someone in her circumstances might have 
concluded that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in the 
event that she no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, Ms W could have cancelled 
the policy at any time without penalty.
Summary
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont think Ms W would have decided against 
taking it out if she had been better informed. It seems more likely to me that she had some 
interest in protecting her mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman