DRN-1373609
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Miss F says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, RBS had to make it clear to Miss F that she had a choice about it.
Weve been sent a copy of Miss Fs application form for the credit card. The application 
appears to have been done by post as Miss Fs name and address is pre-printed on the 
form. The form also includes a section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Miss F wanted to 
take it out. And the box has been ticked.
Miss F has said she only took the PPI as the form says RBS recommends it and because 
she understood her application was more likely to be approved if she took it.
But, while the form does say PPI is strongly recommended, I dont think theres any 
suggestion that RBS has reviewed Miss Fs personal circumstances or that the 
recommendation is tailored to her. Even though the form says the cover is recommended, I 
think its still clear the customer has a choice about it as they are still asked to tick a box to 
take it out. And I dont think theres anything else on the form which suggests the PPI is 
mandatory or will have an impact on the success of the application.
So I think the application form showed Miss F had a choice about the PPI. And, as the box 
for PPI has been ticked, I think Miss F chose to take it.
As I dont think RBS gave Miss F any tailored advice about the PPI, I dont think it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her. But RBS did still have to make sure Miss F got the 
information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Miss F was affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings or other means she had to make 
her repayments if she wasnt earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Miss F if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Miss F off taking it out.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman