DRN-3387926
The complaint
Miss M complains about Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon, referred to as Aegon or the
business.
In short, she says:
She was sent a top up form (and Illustration) to complete in order to deposit money
into her ISA, but the form was long and complicated, and she wasnt given enough 
assistance on how to complete it.
Consequently, she had to re-send the form numerous times and wasnt provided with
a pre-paid envelope. 
To put things right, Miss M wants £50 compensation to pay for the stamps, envelopes and 
calls made. She also wants compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in early March 2022 which forms a part of this final decision. 
In summary, I said provisionally I was minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Aegon said, I was unable to 
safely say that it behaved reasonably towards Miss M  a vulnerable 81-year-old disabled 
woman living on her own.
I didnt blame Aegon for not being able to process Miss Ms application to transfer £10,000
into her ISA, because her application (including the cheque payment) was either incomplete,
incorrectly filled or didnt match the Illustration.
However, I didnt think it adequately considered her age, vulnerability and disability when
dealing with her. Therefore, provisionally I said Aegon should pay Miss M £75 compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I noted that Miss M accepted that the form was sent back a number of times because it was
wrongly filled in. But she also said she didnt get any help with the paperwork, and that she
phoned a number of times, but no one called her back.
I was satisfied that Miss M made reasonably clear from the outset that she was an 81-year-
old disabled women, with reduced/impaired sight in one eye, and suffered from arthritis in 
both knees living on her own. She also made clear that she was having difficulty filling out 
the top up form and didnt understand the Illustration.
She also voiced concerns about the cost of her phone calls  from what appears to be a
pay-as-you-go mobile phone  and her ability to walk to and from her local village post
office  which was half an hour away  in order to post letters. In the circumstances, and on 
balance, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Aegon to give Miss M greater assistance 
in filing out its form, sooner and calling her back in order to do so.
I acknowledged that on 18 May 2020 the call handler suggested that Miss M contact her
building society about getting it to assist her with the form as she was paying a monthly
service charge. However, I also noted that Miss M had a recent appointment with that
business cancelled at the last minute, so wasnt keen to go back in case the same thing
happened again. In the circumstances I couldnt blame her not approaching the building 
society. 
In my opinion, there was also no reason why in that instance Aegon couldnt have returned 
the initial form clearly marking out the sections that needed to be completed with instructions 
in simple language.
It was evident from the later calls that Miss M was overwhelmed by all the paperwork. I 
noted towards the end she was making different mistakes, so her instructions still couldnt be
actioned, and she was extremely frustrated going round in circles.
It wasnt until July 2021, that it seemed Miss M was given assistance in filling out the top up
form and in due course she was able to successfully deposit funds into her ISA. But overall
its assistance was very much piecemeal.
The above notwithstanding, I was satisfied that Aegon was entitled, in the reasonable 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to change its process  and its not for us to 
tell Aegon how to run its business.
I also understood that for the purposes of depositing money into her ISA, Miss M needed to
submit a signed and dated top up form with her cheque payment, and the details needed to
match the Illustration. I also noted that Aegon provided the relevant form and Illustration  as
it was required to  before it could accept a one-off payment of this kind. But for the reason
Ive explained above, I thought that this was separate to why I thought this complaint should 
be upheld given Miss Ms circumstances.
I also noted that in its final response, Aegon suggested that Miss M had previously topped 
up her account by cheque in April 2020 for £3,000 so wouldve known what to do. But based 
on a chronology of events I didnt think this was correct, because it seemed that on that date 
 which probably should read April 2021 and not April 2020  section 5 of the form wasnt
complete so her instructions couldnt be completed. In other words, it seemed Miss M was
having the same problems.
But whether (or not) the above was correct, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,
despite what Aegon said, I wasnt persuaded that Aegon provided a comprehensive, fair and 
reasonable service that took into account Miss Ms age, vulnerability and disability.
For the reasons set out above I thought Aegon should pay Miss M £75 compensation for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
I was informed by the investigator that Miss M responded and accepted my provisional 
decision. 
Aegon also responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short, it said:Having discussed this internally, I can confirm we accept the ombudsmans decision. Ill wait 
until receiving confirmation of whether or not Miss M (names anonymised) accepts this 
decision before taking any action around paying £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of Miss M and the business accepting my provisional decision, my 
decision to uphold this complaint and award Miss M £75 compensation remains the same, 
for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon should pay Miss M £75 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon should pay Miss M redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman