DRN-4318450
The complaint
Miss Z complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill (Churchill), did not repair 
her vehicle to a satisfactory standard following an accident. Miss Z further complains about 
the service she received from Churchill when it was dealing with her claim. 
What happened
Miss Z has a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Churchill. In April 2023, her 
vehicle was damaged in an accident. Churchill then arranged for the resulting repairs to be 
undertaken. Miss Zs car was then taken to a nearby garage (Garage A). 
Miss Z says Garage A told her the vehicle would be repaired and returned to her shortly after 
2 May 2023. However, on 27 April 2023, she was informed her car would be ready the next 
day and she would have to pay the excess then. Miss Z says it was difficult for her to gather 
the excess of £350 together at such short notice. 
Miss Z says the car was returned to her with numerous faults. Miss Z said examples of the 
faults were: the rear drivers door was not fitted correctly and did not close properly; the 
drivers door did not fit correctly; the sill moulding was scraped and damaged; there was 
blotchy paintwork at the bottom of the drivers door; overspray on the drivers door; and a 
crease on the drivers door under the mirror. Miss Z says Garage A sent an engineer to 
repair the faults, but he was unable to do so at her address because the repairs were too 
large. 
In May 2023, Miss Z obtained an estimate from her own repairer (Garage B) who 
suggested extensive repairs were required, including a new drivers door. The total estimate 
for repairs was £4,809. 
Churchill then instructed an independent engineer to assess Miss Zs vehicle. The 
independent engineer said he thought some polishing of the inner doors was required due to 
overspray. He tested the rear door and did not identify any issue with it closing, but said it 
was possible a minor adjustment may be required. He did not think a new door was 
necessary. Altogether the independent engineer said the repairs should take no more than 
an hour at a rate of £60+VAT. 
Miss Z did not accept the independent engineers report and said that it did not reflect the 
discussions theyd had in person at the inspection. 
Churchill considered all of this and ultimately offered to pay £250 to Miss Z to compensate 
her because the repairs had not been carried out to the standard expected. It also accepted 
that her expectations about when she would get her vehicle back had not been met and that 
shed had to request documents several times before Churchill provided them.
Miss Z did not accept Churchills response and she complained to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but thought Churchills offer of compensation was a 
fair way to resolve the complaint. Miss Z did not agree with that view and so the matter has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Z will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Miss Zs policy say that where her car has been 
accidentally damaged, Churchill will arrange to repair it or pay to have it repaired. In this 
case, it arranged for the vehicle to be repaired, but Miss Z says those repairs have not been 
undertaken to a satisfactory standard. 
To assess whether the repairs were satisfactory, Churchill instructed an independent 
engineer. I note that Miss Z says she believes the engineer has a conflict of interest, but she 
did not elaborate on what she believed that conflict to be. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that there was a conflict of interest in this case. 
I know Miss Z took issue with the independent engineers report because she felt it did not 
reflect the discussions that took place when her vehicle was inspected. I wasnt there, so I 
cant say for sure what was said during the engineers visit. I have no reason to doubt that 
what Miss Z told us is her honest recollection of what happened during the engineers visit. 
But even if the independent engineers written conclusions were different to what was 
discussed at the visit, that doesnt mean he did anything wrong. It is possible his conclusions 
were different because hed had time to reflect on what hed seen or had received additional 
information about the accident or the work Garage A undertook. 
Ive thought carefully about Miss Zs concerns about the independent engineers report, but I 
havent seen anything that would reasonably undermine his conclusions. On that basis, I 
have given significant weight to the independent engineers report. 
With that in mind, I can see the independent engineer agreed with Miss Z that repairs had 
not been undertaken to a satisfactory standard. He said there was some overspray on the 
front and rear door and recommended that they both be polished. Although the engineer did 
not note any difficulty with the rear door closing, he said it was possible a small adjustment 
to the rear door may be necessary and took account of this when recommending one hours 
remedial work. 
I know Miss Z strongly believes that further repair work is necessary in line with the estimate 
she obtained from Garage B and that the rear door should be replaced. However, the 
independent engineers view is that if there was an ongoing problem with the rear door, it 
could be remedied with a small adjustment. With that in mind, I cant say it would be 
reasonable to tell Churchill to replace the door here. 
Garage B recommended a new drivers door. However, the independent engineer explained 
why he believed difficulties with the drivers door were not related to the accident. He said 
Garage A had not removed the drivers door as part of the repair process, so it could not be 
responsible for any issues with the mechanics of the door. He noted considerable body filler 
that he said had most likely been caused by a poor repair carried out previously. He also 
said the crease under the drivers mirror was not accident related. In considering the 
independent engineers comments, I cant say it would be fair to require Churchill to replace 
the drivers door. 
Miss Z said the sill moulding was scraped and damaged. The independent engineer 
considered this and found that Garage A had removed the sill only for blending purposes. It 
had not painted the sill and no accident damage had been noted by Garage A upon 
inspection. The engineer said that any paint damage to the sill was not accident related. It 
follows then that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Churchill to undertake any further work on 
the sill and moulding. 
I know Miss Z told us that a representative from Garage A had come to look at the condition 
of the vehicle. She says it was agreed extensive remedial work was needed. Ive seen a copy of the document signed by the Garage A representative. I can see that it does list a 
number of apparent faults. But I cant say that the representative has agreed that all the 
faults were attributable to Garage A or that they arose from the accident. The independent 
engineer was of the view that some of the work, for example, overspray on the headlamps 
could not be attributed to Garage A. 
Putting all of this together then, Im satisfied that the independent engineers 
recommendation of remedial work to polish the overspray and to make the necessary 
adjustment to the rear door is fair in all the circumstances of this case.
I can see there has been some discussion about whether Churchill should provide a cash in 
lieu payment to Miss Z. I dont think it was unreasonable for Churchill to say that it would pay 
for repairs instead. Miss Z said she does not want Garage A to undertake these approved 
repairs. Our investigator set out the necessary steps for the repairs to be undertaken by a 
garage of Miss Zs choice. She also explained that any such repairs would not be 
guaranteed.
Miss Z complained that she was given insufficient time in which to pay the £350 excess to 
Garage A and that the car was ready earlier than she had been told. I appreciate that having 
to find £350 to cover the excess is not easy. But as our investigator said, Miss Z would have 
known the excess was payable when the car was taken in for repair. I note Churchill did 
recognise that Miss Z was given conflicting information about when the car would be ready, 
and it took account of this when it offered to pay compensation. 
I can see that Miss Z did raise some further customer service issues as part of her 
complaint. But I agree with our investigator that the compensation of £250 that Churchill 
already offered is sufficient to address those concerns and for the repairs not being carried 
out to a satisfactory standard. 
For all these reasons, Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint, which means Churchill is not 
required to take any further action. Ill leave it to Miss Z if she wants to allow the further 
rectification work to be undertaken by Churchills repairer. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Zs complaint about UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman