DRN-3104387
Complaint
Mrs T has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly brought 
about an unaffordable loan for her. Shes said that the loan was unaffordable and caused 
her to borrow further on her credit card. 
Background
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs T being 
provided with a loan in July 2017. The loan was for £7,000.00. The agreement had a 48-
month term, an APR of 6.9% and the total amount of £8,003.52, including interest and other 
charges of £1,003.52, was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £166.74.
Mrs Ts complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Ratesetter 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mrs Ts 
complaint be upheld. As Mrs T disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint.
Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs T 
could afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs T and Ratesetter have said.
As I understand it, this was Mrs Ts first agreement with Ratesetter. Ratesetter asked Mrs T 
details about her income and it was provided with screenshots of bank statements to support 
the declaration made. Ratesetter also carried out a credit check which showed Mrs T had 
some existing credit commitments with no current repayment issues on them. Mrs T also 
appears to have taken the odd payday loan in the past but none in almost three years prior 
to this application. Finally, Mrs T did have a joint mortgage but also appears to have 
confirmed her partners income suggesting that he made some sort of a contribution to this. 
The first thing for me to say is about Ratesetters checks is that it clearly asked Mrs T to 
provide quite a bit documentation to support her application. So I dont think that this was a 
case of Ratesetter simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable 
income at face value. Indeed, Mrs T was asked to provide copies of her bank statements. 
And Ratesetter appears to have used the lowest amount credited to Mrs Ts account to 
determine her monthly income.
As Ive explained, Ratesetters credit searches did show that Mrs T had existing debts. But 
the purpose of this loan was supposed to be debt consolidation. And having reviewed the 
screenshots of the bank statements obtained at the time, I cant see anything on them which 
indicated Mrs T wouldnt be able to make the repayments to this loan had she consolidated 
her existing debts in the way she appears to have suggested she was going to. 
Indeed, the loan had a significantly lower interest rate than Mrs Ts credit cards. And while it 
didnt drastically decrease Mrs Ts monthly repayments, it nonetheless would have ensured 
her debts were cleared at the end of the term (and within a reasonable period of time) in a 
way that the payments Mrs T was making to her credit card, up until that time, simply 
wouldnt have done so. 
 
Equally, as this was Mrs Ts first loan with Ratesetter, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that Mrs T would settle her existing debts with the proceeds from this loan. 
And that it wouldnt be increasing Mrs Ts existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. I accept that Mrs T says she experienced difficulty 
making the payments. And Im sorry to hear that this is the case. But I suspect the reason is 
because Mrs T might not have cleared her credit card balances with the proceeds of these 
funds, or she went on to re-establish outstanding balances further down the line. 
In any event, Ratesetter could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. All Ratesetter could do was take reasonable steps to ensure the 
payments would be affordable should Mrs T clear her other debts like she appears to have 
said she would which, for reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied it did so. Ratesetter 
simply wasnt in a position to close Mrs Ts other accounts, or prevent Mrs T accruing further 
debts elsewhere afterwards.
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about Mrs Ts loan. The key thing 
here is that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks which suggested the 
repayments would be affordable, provided the consolidation took place. 
So overall I dont think that Ratesetter treated Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about her agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Mrs T as a result of 
any difficulties she might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding her 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs T. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman