DRN-3644396
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has declined to offer him a full refund after 
he was the victim of an impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr T was the victim of a scam. He received a call from 
someone who said they were calling from the police but who we now know to be a 
fraudster. The fraudster told him that someone within his bank had gained access to his 
account and had been able to transfer £4,000 out of his account. Mr T was told that in 
order to catch this person, he would need to be involved in a secret sting operation 
where he would be required to into his local branch and make a £12,000 transfer to a 
different account which would later be given back to him. 
Mr T was in his eighties when the scam took place. He has said the person he was 
speaking with sounded professional and was able to provide him with a crime reference 
number - so he accepted that they were calling from the police. Mr T was told not to tell 
anyone about the operation as this might compromise the police investigation. The 
fraudster told Mr T that someone at one of his banks was adding zeros to cheques when 
people were cashing them in and so he was to go into his branch and transfer some 
money to help catch them. It is worth noting that at this point, Mr T and the fraudster 
hadnt been talking about Lloyds. They had been discussing another third-party bank that 
Mr T held an account with. The fraudster told Mr T that if the bank asked any questions 
about the transfer, he was to provide them with a cover-story - he was transferring 
money to his nephew to help with his mortgage. 
Mr T went into a branch of the third-party bank. But this bank said they werent able to 
complete the transfer on Mr Ts behalf as he didnt have the relevant ID with him  they 
asked Mr T to provide a copy of his passport. 
When Mr T got home, he spoke with the fraudster again and he told them what had 
happened. The fraudster then told Mr T to go into his local Lloyds branch instead to make 
the transfer. Mr T went to his local Lloyds branch and requested the payment be made. 
Mr T said Lloyds didnt ask him any questions about the payment and it was simply 
processed on his behalf. Mr T went back home and told the fraudster the money had 
been sent and he was told to wait until Monday and he would get another call. However, 
soon after, Mr T told us his son about the operation he had been involved in. Still under 
the spell of the fraudster, Mr T said he couldnt go into much detail. However, Mr Ts son 
spoke to his wife and both of them agreed that this sounded like a scam. Having realised 
what had happened, they contacted Lloyds straightaway. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Ts complaint and acknowledged that he had been the victim of a 
scam and it agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr T lost. It said it didnt think it had 
done enough to prevent him from falling victim to the scam. However, it went on to say 
that Mr T should bear the remaining responsibility for his loss  as he had failed to carry 
out reasonable checks before transferring the money out of his account. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service with the aid of 
a family representative. Mr Ts representative that Mr T had been a little nave and 
wasnt streetwise about such scams but she remained of the opinion that this payment 
should not have been processed by Lloyds. Mr Ts representative stressed that he 
genuinely believed what he was being told by the fraudsters throughout.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed with Lloyds that Mr T had 
proceeded to make the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
speaking with a genuine police officer. And he was of the opinion that a refund of 50% of 
the overall loss was fair.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators opinion and as an agreement has not been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the one reached by our investigator 
 I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why in more detail below.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment service provider (in this case, 
Lloyds) is expected to process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with 
the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), and the customers account terms and 
conditions. But where a customer made a payment(s) as a result of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment service provider to 
reimburse its customer, even though the payment(s) were authorised.
Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code), which Lloyds is a signatory of, it should reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams, except in limited circumstances. 
When considering this complaint, I have taken account of whether Lloyds ought to have 
reimbursed Mr T in full under the provisions of the CRM code, and whether it ought to have 
done more to protect Mr T from potential financial harm from fraud. The Code also places a 
level of care on Mr T and so I have also considered whether Mr T met the required level of 
care too.
As Ive said above, The Code requires payment service providers to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of scams, in all but limited circumstances. If Lloyds declines to 
reimburse its customer in full, it is for Lloyds to establish that its customer failed to meet the 
requisite level of care under one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in The Code itself.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
  the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimateThere are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
Did Mr Z have a reasonable basis for belief?
So, under the CRM code, Lloyds can choose not to reimburse Mr T in full if it doesnt 
believe he took the requisite level of care to ensure he had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the person he was paying was legitimate. It isnt enough for Mr T to have 
genuinely believed that he was paying a legitimate person, he had to have a reasonable 
basis for that belief.
I have carefully considered the representations put forward by Lloyds that Mr T did not have 
a reasonable basis for believing he was making a payment to the police. And I agree. In 
particular, Im not persuaded Mr T did take the requisite level of care required for Lloyds to 
reimburse him in full under the terms of the CRM Code and Im not persuaded that he had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was speaking with a police officer to catch fraudsters in a 
third-party bank. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the 
fraudsters and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mr T when acting in the moment. 
Ill explain why:
Mr T appears to have believed the story presented to him by the fraudsters without 
seeking to independently verify what he was being told - despite the story being 
somewhat implausible. He simply accepted it at face value. 
Mr T didnt check that the £4,000 the fraudster said had been removed from his 
account, had been removed, so he could verify what he was being told.
Its unclear how making an electronic transfer in a Lloyds branch would catch a 
fraudster who was adding zeros to cheques in a third-party branch owned by another 
bank - but Mr T doesnt appear to have questioned this. 
Its unclear why the police would need a member of the publics help to catch a 
purported thief in a bank and how they would do this. Its also not clear why they 
would need a member of the public to transfer their own money to an unknown 
account in order to be able to do this. Mr T doesnt appear to have questioned this 
either.
Lloyds have provided evidence which suggests Mr T was told in branch that the 
police would not ask him to move money out of his account and Mr T responded to 
say he hadnt been asked by the police to move money. Whilst I appreciate that Mr T 
had been told to keep the operation he thought he was involved in a secret, Im 
satisfied that this shouldve have caused Mr T to question what he had been told and 
to have prompted him to seek some additional verification from a trusted third-party 
before proceeding.
So, whilst I acknowledge that Mr T was ultimately persuaded by what the fraudster had told 
him, Im satisfied that he ought reasonably have carried out more checks before making the 
payment  there were a number of red-flags here that shouldve reasonably given some 
cause for concern. Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied Mr T shouldve done 
more to ensure that what he was being told by the fraudster was genuine before he sent 
money in order to meet the required level of care under the CRM Code. Had he done so, I 
dont think he wouldve proceeded to make the payment. And so, I cant fairly say that met 
Mr T met his requirements under the CRM Code now, and I think this made a difference 
here. 
Mr T should get 50% of his losses reimbursed even if he didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief, if Lloyds didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code either. One of those obligations is to give an effective warning  one that is understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific  if it identifies a scam risk in a payment journey.
In its response to Mr Ts complaint, Lloyds has told us that it couldve done more to protect 
Mr T from the scam when he went into branch to make the payment and so it has already 
offered to reimburse Mr T 50% of his losses  the same amount I would award if I found any 
in branch scam warnings werent effective. And so it seems to me it has already offered what 
Mr T would be entitled to under the CRM Code.
It follows that I find the offer made by Lloyds  to reimburse 50% of Mr Ts loss - to be fair 
and I dont require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc has already made a fair 
offer in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman