DRN-3590989
The complaint
Mr A complains that two transfers he made from his Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
current account have gone missing. 
What happened
On 27 July 2021, Mr A made a transfer of £800 to a current account he has with a different 
bank who Ill refer to as B. Mr A made a second transfer on 31 October 2021, to the same 
account for £100.
Mr A says he didnt receive the funds from the transfers into his account held with B. After 
hed done the transfers, Mr A says he found his account with B had been closed, and the 
account details reallocated to another customer. He contacted Halifax to let them know that 
he hadnt received the funds. Halifax contacted B to try and recover the funds, however this 
was unsuccessful and so Mr A has been left out of pocket by £900.
Halifax responded to Mr As complaint to say it had followed its normal process when trying 
to recover the funds, however B couldnt send the funds back. Mr A says he didnt receive 
the letter from Halifax letting him know the outcome of the investigation, and so it paid him 
£20 for this and paid £12 to reimburse him for call costs. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr A but they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought that Halifax had done enough to try and recover the funds. 
Mr A didnt agree and wanted an Ombudsman to look into his complaint, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr As complaint. 
Based on the information Ive seen, it appears the funds were sent to the account Mr A 
asked for them to go to, so I dont think the sending error here was down to something 
Halifax did wrong. The problem is just that Mr A hadnt realised the account he was sending 
the funds to had been closed and the account details reallocated to a new customer. 
The UK Payments Administration issued some best practice guidelines for the 
responsibilities of a business when transferring funds. The guidelines said that it should be 
made clear to customers that the sort code and account numbers are used to process a 
payment rather than the name of the payee  which is not checked by most payment 
services providers.
Halifax has said this information wouldnt have been visible to Mr A when he made these 
transfers. This is because he wasnt sending funds to a new payee, it was an account he 
had with B that had been set up many years prior, and where he had transferred funds 
before. In addition to this, the regulations about warning customers when the unique 
identifiers didnt match the payee name only came into effect after Mr A had set up this 
payee. So I dont find that Halifax has done anything wrong here.
The Payment Services Regulations say that a payment service provider, Halifax in this case, 
should take "reasonable steps" to recover funds that have been mistakenly applied to an 
account. And when its told about a mistake, the sending payment services provider, Halifax, 
must contact the receiving payment services provider, B, within two working days.
I can see that Mr A got in touch with Halifax on 31 October 2021 to let it know that the 
payments had gone missing. Halifax got in touch with B on 1 December 2021. And B 
responded to Halifax on 6 December 2021 to say that it wasnt able to return the funds. 
Halifax could have acted quicker here, and it didnt contact B within the timeframe it should 
have done. From looking at Halifaxs internal notes and Mr As statements, it appears it paid 
Mr A £75 for this delay.
B has informed this service that at the time both transfers were made to the account, there 
were no blocks on the account. So, the funds were credited to the account. But, at the time 
Halifax got in touch with B to try and recover the funds, there were blocks on the account 
which prevented B from being able to return the money.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen; I dont think it likely Halifax would have been able to 
recover the payments even if it had acted sooner. I say this because within the two working 
days Halifax had to contact B, the block had already been applied to the account which 
would have prevented B from being able to return the money. Ive also seen that there 
werent enough funds in the account at the time for the recipient to have been able to return 
the full £900. As Ive said, Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to try and recover the 
payment, and given that three months had passed since the £800 had been transferred, I 
dont think theres much more that I could have reasonably expected Halifax to do to recover 
this payment. 
I can see that Halifax has paid Mr A £20 because he didnt receive the letter letting him know 
that it hadnt been able to recover the funds, and it also paid him £12 to compensate him for 
call costs. These amount both seems fair in the circumstances.
I have also seen that Halifax sent Mr A £75, which appears to compensate him for the delay 
in contacting B to recover the funds  again, I think this seems fair in the circumstances. And 
for the reasons Ive already explained above, I dont think the delay in Halifax contacting B 
has led to a different outcome for Mr A.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A. And Im aware that he has 
lost out on a fair sum. However, I cant hold Halifax responsible for this loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman