DRN-3895807
The complaint
Mr H complains that KGM Underwriting Services Limited (KGM) declined a claim for the total
loss of his car due to a fire, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H bought a car in April 2022 having seen it advertised for sale on the internet. Before
collecting the car, he arranged for it be insured with KGM. When driving the car back it
suffered a serious fault and caught fire. Mr H was able to pull the car onto the hard shoulder
and the emergency services attended to put out the fire.
The car was a total loss due to the fire. But Mr H says KGM declined his claim as it said he
had no garage in which to store his vehicle. This was a requirement of his policy. Mr H says
he has a secure lockable space at the rear of his property where the car was intended to be
kept.
In its complaint response KGM says that Mr H doesnt have a garage. It also says that he
has another car insured with it, that Mr H also confirmed would be kept in a garage. KGM
says there is no room for two cars in the area Mr H identified as his garage.
Mr H thinks KGM is relying on a technicality to decline his claim. He thought its decision was
unfair and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Hs
complaint. She thought the parking space was fairly described as a garage and highlights
that it has CCTV, a security light, an electric shutter, and a padlocked gate. She didnt think
this could reasonably be described as a driveway, as KGM had indicated.
Our investigator thought KGM should reconsider Mr Hs claim and consider the fee raised by
the Highways Agency for removing and disposing of his car.
KGM disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
KGM says Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
incorrectly said his car would be kept in a locked garage. It has supplied information from its
underwriters that confirms it wouldnt have offered cover at all if it knew the car wouldnt be
kept in a locked garage. The business says it thinks this was a careless misrepresentation
on Mr Hs behalf. And under CIDRA it is able to cancel the policy.
Ive looked at the photos that show the space Mr H refers to as a garage. The sides of the
space are made up of a boundary wall on one side, which is around five feet high, and the
rear wall of Mr Hs house on the other side. The neighbours property forms the back wall of
the space, and there is a shutter fitted across the entrance that can be lowered and locked.
There is no roof to the space. And I note KGMs comments that it would be possible to
access the area when the shutter is down by climbing over the boundary wall.
KGM says Mr Hs broker provided a different version of its standard policy document. This
didnt include its usual garaging definition. But it says the policy schedule and Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) refer to the garaging endorsement and that a garage is
a locked and secured building.
Ive read the policy schedule. This says, Garaging Endorsement and, The insured vehicle
must be kept in a locked and secured building overnight.
Ive thought about whether its reasonable for Mr H to have thought of this space/structure as
a garage. But I dont think it is. Ive looked at the online definition of a garage. This says it is
a building for housing a motor vehicle. I think a reasonable person would expect a building to
have a roof.
From the photos supplied, Mr H has an outdoor space at the rear of his property, with no
roof. Access is possible over the boundary wall and its large enough to park one vehicle. I
dont think this space can be considered a garage. And I dont think it reasonably satisfies
the garaging endorsement for it being kept in a locked and secured building.
Ive listened to the call recording when Mr H applied for his policy with KGM. Around four
and a half minutes into the call hes asked where the vehicle is going to be kept or stored
when not in use. Mr H responds that it will be, kept in the garage, locked. The statement of
fact document he was sent confirms the car will be garaged at Mr Hs home address when
not in use.
I accept Mr H has some security measures in place for his parking space, including CCTV, a
light, and a lockable shutter. But I dont think this can reasonably be described as a garage,
which in the policy schedule is described as a locked and secured building. I think KGM
makes a fair point that the parking space doesnt prevent access to the vehicle or to the
internal workings of the shutter. It says it doesnt prevent the opportunity for theft or
accidental damage in the way a locked garage would.
Ive also thought about KGMs comments that Mr H had two policies insuring two different
vehicles. Both contain the same requirement for the vehicles to be garaged. I think its
argument is persuasive that Mr H doesnt have a garage. But, even if the space he regardsas a garage met the policy requirements, it doesnt have space for two cars. I think its
reasonable to expect Mr H to have known this when he applied for his policy and advised his
car would be kept in a locked garage.
Based on this I think Mr H did make a qualifying misrepresentation. I think its reasonable
that KGM considered this to be careless. It says it has cancelled and processed a pro-rata
refund for both of Mr Hs policies. However, in these circumstances CIDRA says:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms,
the insurer may avoid the contract and refuse all claims but must return the premiums paid.
KGM has confirmed it wouldnt have offered insurance. This means the premium should be
refunded in full. The business says it has waived its cancellation fee, which I think is
reasonable, but it should provide a full premium refund in line with CIDRA.
In summary I dont think KGM treated Mr H unfairly when relying on its policy terms and
declining his claim and cancelling his policy in line with the CIDRA rules. But I do think it
should refund the full premium paid, in line with the rules.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and KGM should:
refund Mr Hs policy premiums in full in line with CIDRA.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
KGM responded to say it had now made adjustments in order to provide a full refund of 
premiums. 
Mr H responded to say that the definition of a garage is subjective. He says some people 
consider his parking area to be a garage and others dont. 
Mr H says that in my provisional decision I referred to listening to his call with KGM. But he 
says I fail to mention that no option was provided by KGM during the call. He says no 
definition was read out to him. 
In his response Mr H says our investigator found that KGM had amended its own policy after 
his claim was dismissed. He asks why this was the case. Mr H says KGM failed to provide 
him with relevant information during the initial phone call, which he says is contrary to 
General Insurance Sales Regulations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note KGMs comments about the premium adjustment. Mr H hasnt accepted my decision 
so there is no binding requirement for it to act on it as yet. It will of course need to ensure a 
premium refund is provided should Mr H accept my findings. However, KGM hasnt 
submitted further information or comments for me to consider as part of my decision here.
I note Mr Hs view that the definition of a garage is subjective. In my provisional decision I 
referred to the information contained in his policy schedule regarding what the garaging 
endorsement meant. This says that the insured vehicle must be kept in a locked and 
secured building overnight.The area where Mr H says his car would be parked is partially made up of a boundary wall 
that borders the outdoor space to the rear of his property. The other walls are made up of Mr 
Hs house and his neighbours property. There is a lockable shutter fitted across the 
entrance. 
I pointed out in my provisional decision that the boundary wall is approximately five feet tall. I 
said KGMs view was fair that this would still allow access by a person climbing or jumping 
over the wall. The person would then have access to the car and the mechanism for the 
shutter. 
I accept Mr H has a different view of what constitutes a garage. But the dictionary definition I 
referred to online says a garage is a building for housing a motor vehicle. I said in my 
provisional decision that a building would reasonably be expected to have a roof. Mr Hs 
parking area doesnt have a roof. The entrance shutter can be locked. But this doesnt 
prevent someone gaining access. 
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments that he wasnt given a definition of what a garage was 
when he took the policy out. I dont agree that a reasonable person would consider the 
parking area, Mr H has referred to, as a garage. But he was advised to read his policy 
schedule. This referred to the insured vehicle being kept in a locked and secured building. I 
think its reasonable that Mr H would contact KGM to clarify whether his parking space met 
with this definition having read his policy schedule.    
Another point KGM raised is that the parking area Mr H refers to as a garage only has space 
for one car. Mr H had two cars insured with KGM and both have a garaging endorsement. It 
says that whether this is a garage or not becomes a moot point, given there is no space for 
both cars. I think its point is persuasive and indicates the information Mr H gave that the car 
would be garaged overnight wasnt accurate.
I note Mr Hs comment that our investigator found KGM had gone back to amend its policy 
after his claim was dismissed. 
I understand this point is about when KGM was sent images of the space Mr H referred to as 
his garage. Its underwriters didnt think this was a garage. The reference to amending the 
policy, is that a check was made to see if cover was available when changing the policy 
details. This was from the car being kept in a garage to being kept on a driveway. KGMs 
underwriting criteria didnt allow cover unless the car was garaged overnight. The policy 
wasnt being amended but rather checked to see if cover was possible under different terms. 
This supports KGMs decision to avoid the policy and doesnt warrant an alteration to my 
decision. 
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that the further comments warrant a change 
to my provisional decision. This will now become my final decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. KGM Underwriting Services Limited 
should:
refund Mr Hs policy premiums in full in line with CIDRA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman