DRN-3061884
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain Nemo Personal Finance Limited lent to them irresponsibly when 
they were in financial difficulties.
What happened
In early 2014 Mrs H and Mr H took out a loan for around £26,500 over a term of 20 years 
with Nemo Personal Finance Limited (Nemo). It was secured over their property. They used 
part of the loan to repay existing unsecured borrowing and the balance for other purposes. 
Mrs H and Mr H repaid the loan in around April 2018.
Mrs H and Mr H complained to Nemo in 2019 that Nemo had lent to them irresponsibly in 
2014, and previously in 2011, since they had a lot of debt at the time and taking the loan 
made things worse. Mr H said he was in a spiral of debt, which had led to ill-health. He 
thought Nemo should have realised they were in financial difficulties and refused to lend to 
them. To put things right Mrs H and Mr H wanted Nemo to rectify any adverse entries in their 
credit files and reimburse interest theyd paid on the loans.
Nemo didnt uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint, so they brought it to this service. We 
couldnt consider the complaint about the 2011 lending as it had been brought outside 
relevant time limits. Our investigator thought Nemo had acted reasonably and carried out 
appropriate checks about the affordability of the 2014 loan, so didnt uphold Mrs H and 
Mr Hs complaint. They didnt accept that view. So, Ive reviewed everything to come to a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered too the relevant rules, guidelines and best practice that applied at the time 
Mrs H and Mr H took out the 2014 loan. 
Ultimately, its for a business such as Nemo to decide who it lends to. But, before lending to 
Mrs H and Mr H, Id expect Nemo to have checked theyd be able to afford the repayments. 
Nemo could rely on information Mrs H and Mr H gave them about that, if Nemo considered it 
was appropriate to do so in the circumstances and had no reasonable grounds to doubt the 
information Mrs H and Mr H gave them. 
I need to think about whether the checks Nemo carried out before lending were reasonable 
and proportionate given the amount of the loan, and whether they made a fair lending 
decision considering those checks. If Nemo didnt carry out appropriate checks, I need to 
think about whether, if they had, it would have made any difference to whether their decision 
to lend to Mrs H and Mr H was a responsible one.
Mr H has mentioned this service has upheld previous complaints hes made about other 
loans he got when Mrs H and Mr Hs financial circumstances were similar. But I need to 
consider this complaint on its own facts and merits to come to a view about whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says he had multiple loans at the time he and Mrs H took out the 2014 loan with Nemo. 
He says taking out the 2014 loan made things worse for them financially and led to him 
suffering health issues. I am very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs H and Mr H have had 
but, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think Nemo treated them unfairly or acted 
unreasonably here.
Mrs H and Mr H applied to Nemo for a loan of around £26,500. I can see Nemo considered 
Mrs H and Mr Hs income and expenditure, did a credit check, and carried out a valuation of 
the property the loan would be secured on. All of that is in line with what Id expect them to 
do.
Mrs H and Mr Hs loan application shows they were going to use around £12,000 to 
consolidate existing unsecured debts and the balance for home improvements.  The 
previous loan theyd taken with Nemo was for similar purposes. Mrs H and Mr H had 
managed to keep up payments on that loan. The valuation of their property carried out in 
February 2014 mentions an extension built around 12 months earlier, which suggests they 
used the 2011 loan as planned. There was no reason for Nemo to think, based on how 
Mrs H and Mr H had managed that loan, that they wouldnt be able to make the payments on 
the 2014 loan or that they were planning to use the money for other things. 
Nemo looked at Mrs H and Mr Hs income and outgoings, checking income information by 
reference to Mr Hs recent payslips. Although Mrs H wasnt working, Mr H had been 
employed in the same job for over 11 years. Based on Nemos calculations, 
Mrs H and Mr H had enough income left over, once payments under the 2014 loan had been 
taken into account, to meet their other financial commitments. 
It looks as if Nemo considered Mr Hs gross pay in working this out. I think they should have 
used net pay to get a clearer picture of what Mrs H and Mr H could afford. They say Nemo 
overlooked some outgoings as well. Nemo were right to exclude payments for the loans 
Mrs H and Mr H were planning to consolidate into the 2014 loan from their calculations. 
Using figures Mrs H and Mr H have given us - and leaving aside the other loan payments of 
£1,500 a month Mrs H and Mr H say they had but which didnt appear on the credit check I 
refer to below - the loan still left them with a balance each month, after taking their outgoings 
into account. So, based on that, I think the loan was affordable for them.
Mr H has told us he had multiple other loans. Nemo say they carried out a credit check at the 
end of January 2014 and the loan completed around two weeks later. They say the credit 
check showed that besides their existing mortgage, Mrs H and Mr H had a credit card debt 
and bank loan. There wasnt any indication of any loan defaults or other information that 
suggested Mrs H and Mr H were in financial difficulty at the time the credit check was carried 
out. 
Although a 2017 credit check shows some other loans existed then  and Mr H has 
explained that balances on some of his records were adjusted as a result of other complaints 
hes made  Nemos explained the 2014 credit check didnt show any loans other than those 
Ive mentioned. So, based on the 2014 credit check alone, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Nemo to have known about them.
Mr H has provided copies of bank statements from mid-September 2013 to mid-December 
2013. Nemo say they carried out the same investigations in 2014 to those theyd carried out 
when lending to Mrs H and Mr H in 2011, which included looking at bank statements to verify 
income, so it seems likely Nemo saw these statements. I acknowledge the statements show Mr H had taken out several loans leading up to the 
borrowing from Nemo in 2014. I think Nemo ought to have asked Mrs H and Mr H about the 
borrowing if theyd seen the statements. But, even if they had, on balance, I think it was 
reasonable for Nemo to go ahead and lend to Mrs H and Mr H for a number of reasons.
As Ive said, based on the credit check carried out in early 2014, the borrowing shown in 
Mr Hs statements wasnt outstanding at the time the check was done. The loan was 
affordable based on income and expenditure information - and it was reasonable not to 
include other loans that didnt appear in the credit check in working that out. And Nemos 
experience from Mrs H and Mr Hs 2011 loan suggested theyd be able to keep up their 
payments under the 2014 loan. 
Nemo carried out a valuation of the property over which the loan was going to be secured to 
check there was enough equity in it and they liaised with the first charge lender who gave 
consent for Nemo to secure their loan. Whilst this was important for Nemo to check the level 
of risk they were exposing themselves to, it was also in Mrs H and Mr Hs interests to check 
that there wouldnt be any shortfall if Mrs H and Mr H got into difficulties in paying their 
mortgage or the Nemo loan and the property had to be sold.
I also note that the loan documents pointed out to Mrs H and Mr H in way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading, that they would likely pay more over the term of the loan by 
consolidating their unsecured loans and about the risks of securing the 2014 loan over the 
property. 
The loan documents also stated clearly Mrs H and Mr H should let Nemo know of anything 
else they wanted to bring to Nemos attention  so they had the chance to let Nemo know 
about any financial concerns they had. And if they thought the information in the application 
form they signed contained any wrong information about their financial situation, they could 
have told Nemo about that.
I think Mrs H and Mr H would have reassured Nemo, if theyd discussed things with them in 
2014, that they could afford the payments. Although Mrs H and Mr H missed several 
payments on the 2014 loan, Nemo discussed those with Mr H at the time. He reassured 
Nemo that the missed payments would be met, which they were. Nemo asked Mr H if he 
was in financial difficulties at one point and told him where he could get help if so. But Mr H 
reassured Nemo he wasnt. If Nemo had asked Mr H more about his financial situation when 
they were lending to him and Mrs H in 2014, I think its likely he would have told them then 
as well that theyd be able to meet the payments under the 2014 loan. 
Overall, I think the loan was in Mrs H and Mr Hs best interests. It allowed them to pay off 
existing borrowing and to raise funds for the home improvements they were planning. If they 
chose not to use the money in that way, there was money available for them to pay off their 
other loans as well, which Mr Hs statements from early 2014 suggest they did.  
I think Nemo treated Mr H sympathetically and fairly when some payments were missed 
under the 2014 loan, gave him opportunity to discuss any difficulties he and Mrs H had in 
making payment, and signposted him to agencies who could offer financial advice, as Id 
expect them to. And Mrs H and Mrs H repaid the loan in 2018. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Nemo lent to Mrs H and Mr H irresponsibly in 2014. 
And I think Nemo treated Mrs H and Mr H fairly and reasonably. So, I dont uphold their 
complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman