DRN-3263545
The complaint
Mrs N complains as a director of S, a limited company, that when it reported a claim on its 
commercial legal expenses policy to The Spero Partnership Limited, the claim was not 
passed on to the insurer in time, as a result of which the insurer wouldnt provide cover for 
the claim.  
What happened
In June 2018 court proceedings were issued against S. S says that on 2 July 2018, it phoned 
Spero to notify them of the claim, and later followed this up by sending the court documents 
by email.
Spero didnt notify the insurer of the claim at that point and it was only referred in October 
2019. The insurer initially accepted the claim. But when it became aware soon after of the 
delay in notification, the insurer said that due to the delay, its interest had been prejudiced 
and so the claim wouldnt in fact be covered.
S complained about Speros delay in passing the claim on to the insurer.
Spero says it didnt receive the emails in July 2018 and has said they are likely to have been 
fabricated. It has asked for read receipts or delivery confirmation emails to prove they were 
sent. Spero has also said emails it was alleged to have sent in reply appear to have errors 
and dont include the email signature of the member of staff who sent them, which would be 
normal practice.
S says the emails must have been received, as the documents Spero requested were sent 
in 2018, and Spero sent emails in 2019 saying the claim had been passed to the insurers. S 
says if Spero hadnt received the emails sent in 2018, it wouldnt have been able to reply 
later as it wouldnt have been aware of the claim.
When S brought the complaint to this service our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
He said: 
Spero had confirmed it sent the emails in 2019 about the claim and those emails 
would have made no sense if it hadnt received details of the claim from S;
he wasnt persuaded by Speros argument about errors in the emails; 
even going by the first date on which Spero admitted being aware of the claim, there 
was still a delay before it was passed on to the insurer, so it was likely there had 
been a delay in passing on details of the claim; and 
this had caused a loss for S, which had had to pay its own solicitors for legal work 
that would have been covered by the policy, along with the compensation payment S 
had paid to the other party in the proceedings.
The investigator recommended that Spero should pay compensation to S of £18,000 for the 
compensation claim together with the legal costs of £49,927. He also recommended a 
payment of £200 to reflect the impact of Speros actions on S.
Spero didnt accept the investigators findings and made a number of comments. In 
summary it said:
S has never provided a recording of the phone call allegedly made in July 2018 and 
theres no unassailable evidence that this call happened; 
the investigator referred to errors in other emails as evidence that the emails 
allegedly sent by S in July 2018 were in fact sent, but a claim of this size shouldnt 
hinge on such a point; 
it didnt receive the emails in July 2018 or those allegedly sent in February and April 
2019 and asks what unassailable evidence there is to show (beyond the balance of 
probabilities) they were sent; 
it had received four other claims from S between February and August 2018 and S 
was likely preoccupied with those other claims, but this point hasnt been taken into 
account; 
the claim made against S by the other party could have been settled at an earlier 
date for a lower sum of £10,000 and Ss uncompromising approach led to higher 
costs; 
it questions the credibility of Mrs N, given that the claim was settled for £18,000 after 
being strongly resisted, and the fact S agreed to this payment is evidence of the way 
she handled such matters; 
it questions whether the policy would have covered such damning accusations 
against S.
 
The investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. So Spero requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint but with a different 
remedy from that proposed by the investigator. I set out my reasons as follows:
S is represented in this complaint by solicitors. They have referred to principles set out in the 
FCAs Principles for Business and the Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) 
including for example the need to conduct business with due skill, care and diligence, and to 
treat customers fairly, and say Spero failed to comply with those principles. Ive taken these 
principles into account when considering how Spero carried out its duties to S as its 
customer.
I agree with our investigator that the crux of the complaint centres on whether S did notify 
Spero of the claim and if so, how Spero then dealt with that on behalf of S. It doesnt seem to 
be disputed that if S had notified it of the claim, Spero should have passed that on to the 
insurer on behalf of S. But Spero says it has no record of the claim in July 2018 and never 
received the emails S says it sent with details of the claim.
Spero argues that S hasnt provided unassailable evidence to confirm (beyond the balance 
of probabilities) there was a phone call in July 2018 or that the emails were sent then. But its 
not necessary for there to be unassailable evidence for me to determine the complaint.
Both parties have had the opportunity to provide whatever evidence they wish to be 
considered. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to weigh up the evidence 
provided and make my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words I need to 
decide, based on the information available, whats more likely than not to have happened 
and then decide whats fair and reasonable in the light of that.
Spero says it didnt receive the emails in July 2018. But there was an email from Spero in 
February 2019 asking for further information about the claim to pass to the insurer. And in April 2019, Spero sent an email to S saying the matter has been passed to [the insurer]. 
Spero has confirmed both these emails were sent.
If Spero hadnt been told about the claim in July 2018, these later emails wouldnt make 
sense - I would have expected Spero to be questioning S and asking what the claim was 
about. But theres no evidence of that; the evidence indicates Spero was aware of the claim 
and was dealing with it.
Spero says the emails from S look to be fabricated. As evidence of this, it says their staff 
member wouldnt make typing errors or send emails without his email signature. Ive 
considered this carefully. There are other examples of emails from Spero (which they 
confirm were sent) which contain no signature or have errors in them. So Im not persuaded 
by this argument; on balance I think its unlikely taking into account the other emails, that the 
emails in question were fabricated.
Spero also says it would have no reason not to pass the claim on, and this also indicates it 
didnt receive the emails in July 2018. It says it had received four other claims from S 
between February and August 2018 and S was likely preoccupied with those other claims. I 
dont have any further details of that and I dont consider that would outweigh the other 
evidence Ive considered.
In any event, Spero has admitted being aware of the claim in April 2019. And the insurer has 
confirmed it wasnt notified of the claim until October, six months after Spero advised they 
had passed the case to the insurers.
Taking all of this into account Im not persuaded by Speros arguments. Im satisfied on 
balance that it failed to notify the insurers within a reasonable time. And as a result of that 
delay, the insurer rejected the claim.
The legal advice was that the claim had a reasonable chance of success. Having looked at 
the policy terms, its likely the insurer would have covered Ss legal costs. Our investigator 
thought the amount S paid to the other party would also have been covered. Having 
considered this carefully I dont think it would have been.
The policy does include cover for awards made against S in certain employment disputes. 
But this only applies to awards made by the employment tribunal for breach of statutory 
duties set out in employment legislation, with prior approval by the insurer. And the claim 
against S wasnt an employment tribunal claim  it was a county court claim for breach of 
contract and other legal claims.
The insurer has said that for a compensation award to be covered, the insured would have 
needed to have sought its guidance before dismissing the employee. This didnt happen on 
this instance (and it wasnt an employment contract dispute between the two parties), so the 
compensation award element of cover would not have applied and the insurer would only 
have covered the legal costs.
On this basis, S hasnt lost out on the payment of the compensation award as a result of 
anything Spero has done; it would never had been entitled to that. So its loss is limited to the 
legal costs.
S has said if the claim had been accepted by the insurer, it would have used a panel solicitor 
in order to reduce the costs incurred. Instead, S had to instruct its own solicitors and meet its 
costs. So I think Spero should reimburse the costs incurred by S to put it in the position it 
would have been in, if the claim had been covered by the insurer.The insurers have said if the claim had been reported in July 2018 with the non-panel firm 
already instructed then, subject to the solicitors providing a claims management report and 
agreeing the standard terms of appointment, they would have considered covering the claim. 
This would have been restricted to ongoing fees as any costs already incurred would have 
been excluded. So I would only ask Spero to pay costs that would have been incurred after 
the claim should have been notified to the insurers.
Ive considered Speros comments about the way Mrs N conducted the case on behalf of S. 
Its possible the claim might have been settled earlier, but she was following legal advice and 
the settlement eventually achieved was more favourable. Even if the claim had been 
covered, its unlikely the insurer would have withdrawn cover unless S had rejected a 
reasonable settlement against legal advice and theres nothing to show that was the case 
here.
The claim was originally accepted within two weeks of notification in November 2019  so I 
think its fair to say if the claim been notified in July 2018, it would have been accepted within 
two weeks of then. So I think S should bear its own costs incurred up to 20 July 2018 and 
Spero should meet the costs incurred after that date.
S' solicitors have provided details of costs, including invoices setting out the work done 
relating to the claim and amounts charged from 20 July 2018, which amounts to £49,927. So 
Spero should cover that amount, In addition, for any costs S has already paid, it should add 
simple interest at 8% from the date those costs were paid by S to the date they are 
reimbursed.
The policyholder is S. Although Mrs N has dealt with this matter on behalf of S, Im unable to 
award any payment to her individually for any distress caused to her by the way things have 
been handled. I can, however, consider the inconvenience caused to S in having to spend 
time dealing with this matter, taking it away from its other activities. Looking at how things 
were handled and the trouble S has been put to, I agree that a payment of £200 would be 
fair to reflect the impact Speros actions had.
On this basis I said I intended to direct Spero to pay the following to S:
the sum of £49,927 in respect of legal costs together with - for any of these costs S 
has already paid - simple interest at the rate of 8% from the date those costs were 
paid by S to the date they are reimbursed: and
£200 to reflect the inconvenience caused to S.
Replies to the provisional decision
Ss solicitors replied to say they had no further comments to add, but provided a breakdown 
of the interest to be added to the costs payment.
Spero instructed solicitors, who provided further detailed comments on its behalf, including:
Spero is firm in its position that it never received the emails S claims to have sent 
about the claim. To be satisfied on this point, there would be merit in asking S for the 
metadata for those emails.
If S had given notice of the claim, its not clear why S didnt pursue that or why it 
instructed solicitors and paid their fees; those fees should have been referred to the 
insurer.
Even if S did give notice of the claim in June 2018, there had already been a delay by 
then as S had been aware of the issue some months earlier in March 2018, and 
should have disclosed that when renewing the policy in March 2018. Failing to do so 
would have affected the insurers decision to offer cover and was a breach of the duty S had to give a fair presentation of the risk it was seeking cover for, which could 
have invalidated the insurance altogether.
Even if cover had been provided, a panel firm of solicitors would have been 
instructed whose fees would have been lower than Ss solicitors, so the correct 
approach would be to pay the legal costs at the panel rate of £100 per hour.
Assuming that S is registered for VAT, an insurer would not pay the VAT on the legal 
costs  this would be paid by S who could recover it from HMRC.
Any interest should not be at 8%, as that is far in excess of a reasonable rate in the 
current market.
Before proceeding with this decision I sought Ss comments on these points. Ss solicitors 
have advised that:
The emails are genuine and theres no evidence showing otherwise. Electronic 
copies of the emails were sent to Spero at their request in August 2020, so it has had 
every opportunity to interrogate the metadata if required.
S emailed Spero in February 2019 referring to the call in July 2018 and attached an 
invoice for legal costs. Spero didnt reply asking what this was about. If there had 
been no previous discussion Spero would have asked what this related to.
Spero advised by email in April 2019 that the claim had been referred to the insurer. 
If Spero hadnt received any information about the claim it wouldnt have had 
anything to pass on to the insurer and this email would not make sense.
The court proceedings were served on S on 22 June 2018 and it notified Spero of the 
claim on 2 July  this was done promptly and within the timescale set out in the policy 
terms. The insurer confirmed that the claim was covered in principle and it was only 
the delay in notification that led to this decision being reviewed.
If cover had been agreed in July 2018 S would have agreed to panel solicitors being 
instructed and wouldnt have needed to pay its own solicitors. Spero should cover the 
legal costs S has been forced to incur  and this should include the costs of pursuing 
this complaint, which would have been avoided if Spero had acknowledged its errors 
in the first place.
S has checked with its accountants who have confirmed it is entitled to recover part 
of the VAT charged on legal costs. Its accepted Spero should not have to pay that 
element of the VAT which S has reclaimed or is entitled to reclaim. 
S's solicitors have provided written confirmation from the accountants of the position 
regarding the VAT. They advise that for the financial years ended May 2019, May 2020 and 
May 2021 the percentage of VAT reclaimed on legal expenses was 36%, 32.8% and 34.3% 
respectively. They anticipate the percentage for the financial year ending May 2022 will be 
around 33.68% (being the average of the above figures).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments from Speros solicitors but they dont lead me to reach a 
different conclusion. With regard to the emails, I cant avoid the conclusion that if Spero had 
not received the original emails, it wouldnt have known about the claim. So when S then 
contacted it in February 2019 the logical response would have been to ask what claim they 
were referring to. Spero didnt do that. And in April Spero said it had passed the claim on to 
the insurer. If it didnt have details of the claim that simply wouldnt make sense  it would 
have had nothing to forward. And the insurer has confirmed it didnt actually receive 
notification until October. Taking all of this into account, Speros account of the sequence of 
events isnt convincing and Im not persuaded by it. On balance, I still think it's more likely S did make Spero aware of the claim and Spero failed to notify the insurer within a reasonable 
time.
I note what Speros solicitors say about Ss earlier knowledge and its failure to advise of the 
issue when renewing the policy in March 2018. But from the information Ive seen the insurer 
didnt raise any issue about that. The insurer hasnt sought to void the policy; it was willing to 
accept the claim and then rejected it only on the basis of late notification. So its likely that if 
the claim had been notified earlier it would have been covered. For these reasons it remains 
my view that Spero should cover Ss legal costs. 
That still leaves three points to consider  the amount of the fees that should be reimbursed; 
whether VAT should be included; and whether interest should be added at 8%.
I dont think these costs should be limited to the panel solicitors rate of £100 per hour. If the 
claim had been notified in time its likely panel solicitors would have been appointed. But 
because of Speros failure to notify the insurer, S was left in the position of finding its own 
solicitors and was liable for their costs. It was put in this position because of the late 
notification of the claim. If costs are limited to £100 per hour S would have to make up the 
difference. It wouldnt be fair for S to lose out as a result of an error by Spero.
I dont, however, consider it fair to direct Spero to pay the legal costs of bringing the 
complaint. I appreciate why S might wish to have the support of its solicitors, who will no 
doubt be familiar with the issues. But we provide a free and informal service which does not 
require parties to be legally represented. 
S has been advised by its accountant that some VAT can be recovered but not all. Ss 
solicitors have provided a breakdown of the costs charged since 2018, the VAT element 
charged on each invoice and the amount of VAT reclaimed in respect of each. Excluding 
costs of bringing the complaint, the total costs relating to the claim itself are £49,927.20  the 
amount I proposed to direct Spero to pay in the provisional decision. I sought confirmation of 
the VAT figures from the accountants and this has been provided. The VAT reclaimed in 
relation to these costs amounts to £2,467.46. This should be deducted from the total, leaving 
a figure of £47,459.74. So thats the amount that should be paid to S.
I think a rate of 8% simple interest per year is appropriate. It reflects the cost of being 
deprived of money in the past. Its simple interest, not the compound rate which is usually 
charged on borrowing. And it reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts.
The breakdown of costs provided by Ss solicitors includes the dates when most of the costs 
were paid (not all have been paid yet) with a calculation of interest in respect of each 
invoice. Although this provides a total, interest will continue to accrue until Spero reimburses 
the costs. So rather than specify a sum in this decision, the direction will remain for interest 
to be added. If S provides that breakdown to Spero of the payments made, the interest can 
be calculated on that basis, up to the date when Spero reimburses S.
Putting things right
To put things right, the Spero Partnership Limited needs to pay the following to S:
the sum of £47,459.74 in respect of legal costs together with - for any of these costs 
S has already paid - simple interest at the rate of 8% from the date those costs were 
paid by S to the date they are reimbursed: and
£200 to reflect the inconvenience caused to S.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct the Spero Partnership 
Limited to pay the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman