DRN-2203686
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of 
Scotland charged her a monthly fee for the account and provided several potential benefits 
in return. 
Miss K thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
What happened
Miss K has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a while. Bank of Scotland has sent 
us information from its records, which it says shows that:
in November 2008, Miss K opened a fee-free account, 
in January 2012, it sold her the URCA, for which it charged the monthly fee,
Miss K closed the URCA in July 2020.
I think that Bank of Scotlands records about this are probably reliable and I have taken them 
to be correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Ks complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Miss K any money back.
Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss K and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2012, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Miss K, I would have expected it to give her 
a choice and tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check that the URCA was a reasonable match for her 
circumstances before making its recommendation. 
Part of the dispute in this complaint has been about how Bank of Scotland came to sell the 
URCA to Miss K and which approach it used. 
Miss K initially told us that Bank of Scotland told her that she wouldnt be eligible for (its) 
fee-free accounts. But she also said that it sold her the URCA over the internet; in which 
case it would have been very unlikely that Bank of Scotland spoke to her. And if it did, it 
would have been unlikely to say she wasnt eligible for fee-free accounts as she had already 
held one for over three years. 
However, in more recent correspondence, Miss K has said that she used the internet only 
after Bank of Scotland had recommended the URCA to her during a phone call. Shes told 
us that during the call she and Bank of Scotland discussed the fees she was paying for an 
overdraft on her fee-free account. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that it has no record of the phone call and that it sold the URCA 
to Miss K over the internet on an information-only basis. As the call would have taken place 
nearly ten years ago, Im not surprised that Bank of Scotland has no record of it, but this 
doesnt mean it didnt take place; and Im satisfied from what Miss K has told us that it did.
Miss K has also told us that she suffers from a medical condition which means she is very 
willing to take advice from others. As there is no record of the call, I cant tell for sure what 
Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say, during the phone conversation, but Miss K has told us 
that after it she thought she had Bank of Scotlands word that changing to the URCA would 
be better for her and so went online to buy it. 
From what Miss K has told us, Im satisfied that she certainly thought that Bank of Scotland 
was recommending the URCA to her. So, in fairness to her, I have considered her complaint 
to be about an advised sale. 
In 2012, the potential benefits of the URCA included use of a car breakdown service, mobile 
phone insurance and travel insurance. Depending on how customers used their accounts, 
Bank of Scotland also usually applied lower charges for overdrafts to customers with URCAs 
than to customers with fee-free accounts. In some circumstances, customers with URCAs 
could save more in overdraft charges than they paid in monthly fees. 
Miss K has told us that she didnt want any of the potential benefits of the URCA. However, I 
understand that she registered two mobile phones for insurance and drove a car. (Bank of 
Scotlands records show that she used the breakdown service). As I have already mentioned 
she also used an overdraft on her fee-free account. So, it seems to me that it would have 
been reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend the URCA to Miss K, as she had a 
potential need for some of its main benefits.
Miss K has mentioned that while she had the URCA she never travelled and so didnt need 
the travel insurance. I accept this, but the URCA came as package which couldnt be 
adjusted for precise individual needs, so this doesnt mean that Bank of Scotland was wrong 
to recommend it to her. She has said similar things about some of the other benefits, but the 
same applies.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Bank of Scotland told Miss K about the fees for 
the URCA, and as she used both the car breakdown service and the mobile phone 
insurance it must have told her about the benefits. And Im also satisfied that it gave her a 
choice. After all, before buying the URCA she had held a fee-free account for several years 
and, despite her earlier comments that Bank of Scotland said she wasnt eligible for them, I 
dont think it did anything to stop her keeping the one she had; and as Bank of Scotland 
didnt switch Miss K to the URCA during the phone call, I think it gave her a fair choice. I am sorry to hear about Miss Ks medical condition and I wish her well in coping with it. Im 
not sure how much, if anything, Bank of Scotland knew about it, but I think it treated her fairly 
and met its obligation to her when it sold her the URCA. 
In recent correspondence, Miss K has also told us that many years ago she rang Bank of 
Scotland to cancel the URCA, but it told her to keep it. She hasnt told us great deal about 
this call, and I havent considered it as part of this decision. This means that Miss K is free to 
take it further with Bank of Scotland if she so wishes. But I cant give her any advice about 
this. Nor do I know if any complaint she may subsequently bring to us would be inside or 
outside the timescales and other rules about which cases we can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman