DRN-4516529
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Sainsburys Bank Plc and that his 
personal loan account was defaulted and passed to a third-party collection agency.
What happened
Mr Hs income was impacted due to the pandemic, and he was unable to meet the 
contractual payments to his Sainsburys personal loan. During the pandemic Mr H was given 
some payment deferrals and later a reduced payment arrangement was agreed. 
On 7 July 2021 Sainsburys wrote to Mr H as the payment arrangement had come to an end. 
At this point the arrears on the loan were £2,290.74. The letter said that Sainsburys may 
issue a default notice if Mr H didnt contact it and he was unable to keep up the required 
payments. The letter also explained what a default notice was, and the consequences of an 
account being defaulted. 
Mr H says when hed found new employment, he contacted a debt advice service for help to 
get his finances back on track. He completed an income and expenditure breakdown and the 
debt advice service suggested he could afford to pay £72.35 per month to his Sainsburys 
loan. Mr H says he wrote to Sainsburys on 21 July 2021 with the details of the income and 
expenditure breakdown and his payment proposal. 
Mr H contacted Sainsburys on 9 August 2021 when his letter wasnt acknowledged. But he 
was told his letter hadnt been received as hed written to the wrong address and that hed 
need to send it again. Mr H was also told that when Sainsburys had received the information 
it would look to put a payment plan in place. Mr H sent the information again. But when he 
called Sainsburys to follow this up, he was told his account had been defaulted and passed 
to a collection agency.
Mr H is unhappy about the action taken by Sainsburys. And the way he was dealt when he 
called to discuss what was happening with his account in September 2021. He says 
Sainsburys staff were curt, dismissive, and hostile. So, he complained.
Sainsburys hadnt completed its review into Mr Hs complaint in November 2021, so it 
provided referral rights to this service. Mr H referred his complaint to us on receipt of the 
letter. While the complaint was waiting to be looked into by an investigator, Sainsburys 
issued its full final response to this complaint.
 
It said that when Mr H originally called in August 2021 and had been asked to send in 
another copy of his income and expenditure breakdown, the intention was to allow its 
collections team to set up a payment arrangement when Mr Hs account had defaulted. 
Sainsburys explained that at the time of this call this was its collection process. But it had 
subsequently made the business decision to pass defaulted accounts to a collection agency.
It said its internal collections team was no longer able to agree payment plans but the 
collection agency would be able to discuss a payment arrangement with Mr H. So, it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in this respect. But it did agree that the call Mr H had with 
its staff in September 2021 could have been handled better. In recognition of the upset 
caused it offered Mr H £50 compensation. 
Our investigators looked into the matter. During her investigation she noted that while the 
complaint had been with our service Mr H had referred to other complaint points relating to 
events both prior to and after this particular complaint. The investigator told Mr H that she 
had arranged for new complaints to be set up for these issues to be considered. And she 
confirmed that under this complaint reference the following complaint points would be 
addressed: the poor customer service Mr H had received over the phone in September 2021 
and whether Sainsburys had acted fairly in referring Mr Hs account a collection agency.
 
Having considered these points, she didnt think that Mr H had been detrimentally affected 
by Sainsburys decision to pass Mr Hs account to a third-party as the option for a payment 
plan was still available. She said that - even if a payment plan had been agreed directly with 
Sainsburys, given the outstanding arrears and the reduced payment Mr H was able to offer, 
his account would have always defaulted. But she did think Mr H had been given some             
mis-leading information during a phone call and that the call could have been handled better. 
She recommended that Sainsburys should increase its offer of compensation to £150. 
Both Sainsburys and Mr H disagreed with the outcome. As agreement wasnt reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. Due to an oversight, there was delay in this 
complaint being passed forward for a decision. This matter is being looked into separately.
I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 28 November 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it would be helpful to explain the scope of this decision. Ive seen that 
Mr H has raised issues with Sainsburys during the time he was financial difficultly. And Ive 
seen that Sainsburys responded as it issued two separate final responses letters in March 
and May 2021. 
But Mr H approached this service towards the end of 2021 when Sainsburys hadnt 
responded to a further complaint, hed raised with it in September 2021. I can see there is 
some overlap in the issues Mr H has had with Sainsburys as they all stem from the personal 
loan. But it is the events  which was subsequently addressed by Sainsburys final response 
letter date 8 December 2021, that this decision relates to. Any other complaint points have 
been/will be addressed under separate complaint references - including Mr Hs latest 
concerns about the outstanding balance on the loan. So, I make no findings in relation to 
those complaints.
 
Ive looked at a copy of the letter which was issued to Mr H on 7 April 2021 and his loan 
statements. These indicate that Mr Hs previous payment arrangement had ended in early 
April 2021. The letter explains that Sainsburys needed to discuss Mr Hs account further and 
that it may default Mr Hs account if it didnt hear from him, and he couldnt maintain his 
payments. Overall, I find that Sainsburys did enough at this point to inform Mr H what he 
needed to do and that his account could be defaulted.  
 
Mr H wrote to Sainsburys on 21 July 2021 to confirm hed been in touch with a debt advice 
service. He requested an interest freeze for a further 12 months and offered a payment plan 
of £72.35 per month in line with the income and expenditure breakdown hed completed. But 
Sainsburys says it didnt get this letter. Mr H has said matters would have been smoother if hed been able to send the information 
by email  particularly, as he says Sainsburys provided the wrong postal address. While I 
appreciate why Mr H may have preferred to send information by email, I dont find 
Sainsburys request for the information to be sent by post to be unreasonable. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about Sainsburys providing the wrong postal 
address. But, having reviewed the correspondence Sainsburys sent Mr H it seems that it 
has two different postal addresses. As both addresses where valid Sainsburys postal 
addresses, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys provided a wrong postal address, I think its 
more likely that Mr H wrote to the address he found on one of the letters hed previously 
received. Its not clear why Sainsburys didnt get the letter, but I have no reason to doubt 
that it wasnt received as post can go astray from time to time.
 
Ive gone on to listen to the call recording from 9 August 2021. And I agree with Mr H that the 
call handler told him that hed have 40 days to resend the information and - on receipt, 
Sainsburys would be able to discuss setting up a payment plan. I also accept that 
Sainsburys defaulted Mr Hs account and passed it to a debt collector before 40 days had 
elapsed. So, Ive thought about whether Sainsburys action was unfair.
Its not in dispute that by April 2021 Mr Hs loan was already in arrears and although he was 
able to start making some repayments, the repayments he was able to offer were 
significantly less than his monthly contractual payments.
 
Industry guidance says that a lender can default an account when a debt is more than six 
months in arrears. And that is the case here. And while I appreciate that Mr H was given the 
expectation that he could arrange a payment plan with Sainsburys, Im satisfied that the call 
handler made Mr H aware that would subject to the account being defaulted (if he wasnt 
able to repay the outstanding arrears in full) and the impact this would have on his credit file. 
As such, even if Sainsburys hadnt changed its process and its internal collection team 
could have agreed a payment arrangement, Im persuaded that Mr Hs account would have 
always been defaulted.
 
Ive seen that Sainsburys issued Mr H with a default notice on 19 August 2021. This 
explains that if Mr H is unable to clear the arrears before 15 September 2021  and its not in 
dispute that this isnt something he could do, that the account would be defaulted. Mr H 
hasnt said whether he received the default notice, but the notice was addressed correctly.
  
Sainsburys has since explained that around August 2021, it made a business decision to 
change its process and that accounts which had been defaulted would be passed to a debt 
collection agency and payment plans could be arranged with it. Mr H has said he doesnt 
think this is true. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Sainsburys explanation 
about the change to its process was incorrect  its a process that many lenders adopt. 
Overall, Im persuaded the information given to Mr H in the August phone call was correct at 
the time. But I can see why the unfortunate timing of the change in process has led Mr H to 
question how his account was handled. So, while I dont find Sainsburys did anything wrong 
when it passed Mr Hs account to a collection agency, Im persuaded that Mr H suffered 
some inconvenience because of not being able to deal with Sainsburys as hed expected.
 
Mr H has said it took 50 minutes to get through to a call handler when he called Sainsburys 
in September 2021. And hes raised concerns about how he was treated during the call. Ive 
listened to this call. The call  when put through to a call handler, wasnt very long and much 
of the call Mr H was on hold waiting to be passed to a manger. But while the call couldve 
been handled better, I dont find the call handler was rude to Mr H.
 Taking into account that the call could have been handled better and that the unfortunate 
timing of Sainsburys change in process, I think compensation is due for the inconvenience 
and upset caused to Mr H. Overall, I think £150 fairly recognises the impact these issues 
had on Mr H.
But given the status of Mr Hs account in April 2021, Im persuaded the account would have 
always been defaulted  even if Sainsburys had been able to agree a payment plan with 
him. While I appreciate that Mr H would have liked to continue to discuss payment plan 
options directly with Sainsburys, I dont think it was unfair that Sainsburys referred his 
account to a debt collection agency. In doing so, interest and charges are suspended, and 
collection agencies can agree reduced payment arrangements which is what Mr H has said 
he was seeking. So overall I dont think Sainsburys treated Mr H unfairly in this respect.
I can see that Mr H has raised concerns about how Sainsburys handled this complaint. He 
has mentioned that it took months to respond and told him to refer the complaint to this 
service without issuing a full response. I should explain that a business is allowed up to eight 
weeks to respond to complaints. I acknowledge that Sainsburys full response was just 
outside these timescales. But in providing referral rights to Mr H at the end of the eight 
weeks, the delayed full response hasnt prevented Mr Hs complaint from being referred to 
this service. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Sainsburys responded to say it accepted the provisional decision in order to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mr H said he thought he should be receiving a minimum of £200 compensation. In summary 
he said:
Sainsburys dont appear to understand or be aware of the correct procedure and 
operational functions of recognised debt advice agencies.
It had been his intention to begin a payment plan when he first contacted Sainsbury's 
following the inclusion and involvement of a debt advice agency. But Sainsburys 
made no effort to respect that intention.
He doesnt agree that a previous payment that had been in place ended in April 2021 
as I mentioned in my provisional decision. 
The main issue is not the reporting of the debt. Rather, his main concerns are the 
poor level of service received and lack of communication from Sainsburys. 
The originally £50 compensation offered by Sainsburys should be in addition to the 
£150 compensation mentioned in the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to clarify that I've taken into account all the information Mr H has provided and 
the points he has made - both prior to my provisional and his responses to it. But as an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to consider the circumstances of the complaint as a whole. And Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. Having done so, while I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling about what happened - overall, 
for the reasons given in my provisional decision (which form part of this final decision  so I 
wont repeat them all here), Im satisfied that £150 fairly recognises the impact these issues 
had on Mr H. But I will add some further comments.
Mr H has mentioned that Sainsburys had already offered £50 compensation so he thinks 
this should be awarded in addition to the £150 Ive said Sainsburys should pay him. 
In its final response letter Sainsburys offered £50 to acknowledge some service failings. And 
I agreed that Mr H hadnt received the level of service he should have, which is why I 
increased the compensation award to £150. So, the award I make includes the £50 already 
offered by Sainsburys.
 
Overall, Ive found that Mr Hs account would have always been defaulted. I acknowledge 
that Mr H has said this isnt the crux of his complaint, and his concerns are about poor 
service and lack of communication. But apart from the service failings mentioned in my 
provisional decision, I dont think overall, Sainsburys treated Mr H unfairly.
 
Mr H says that his previous payment plan didnt expire in April 2021. But I disagree. 
Sainsburys has provided this service with a letter issued to Mr H on 7 April 2021 and his 
loan statements. The letter also asked Mr H to contact Sainsburys to discuss his loan going 
forward. So, Im persuaded that Mr Hs previous payment arrangement had ended in early 
April 2021. 
 
Mr H submitted new payment proposals that had been worked through with a debt advice 
agency. But a lender is not obliged to accept any proposal put to it. I acknowledge that 
Sainsburys initially indicated a further payment proposal would be considered by it and its 
unfortunate that Sainsburys changed its internal process before a payment plan could be 
agreed. But I dont find it was unfair that Sainsburys referred Mr Hs account to a debt 
collection agency. In doing so, interest and charges are suspended, and collection agencies 
can agree reduced payment arrangements which is what Mr H has said he was seeking.
Overall, for the above reasons and those set out in my provision, I find £150 (total) is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused to Mr H. 
Id like to be clear that this is not to minimise what Sainsburys did wrong, it clearly didnt 
handle some matters as well as it should have. Its just that Ive found compensation of £150 
fairly recognises the impact the situation had on Mr H taking all the circumstances into 
consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Sainsburys Bank Plc should now pay Mr H £150 compensation in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman