DRN-3215298
The complaint
Mr D complains that Seedrs Limited failed disclose key information regarding an investment 
opportunity promoted through its crowdfunding platform. Mr D says this caused him a 
financial loss. 
What happened
Seedrs is an equity-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of campaigns. Prospective investors can view information about a 
company and the details of the investment in these campaigns on the platform before 
deciding whether to invest. In return for their investment they receive equity in the company.
Mr D invested £3,500 into a company promoted through the Seedrs platform in November 
2018. Ill refer to this company as Company A. Company A raised just under £1,000,000 
during this crowdfunding campaign in return for around 25% equity. Company As pre-money 
valuation at this time was just over £2,600,000. The campaign was successfully 
crowdfunded in May 2019.
Company A launched another crowdfunding campaign in September 2019 through the 
Seedrs platform. Company A was looking to raise a further £350,000. This new campaign 
prompted Mr D to complain to Seedrs as the pre-money valuation of Company A had 
dropped to under £18,000. It also mentioned that Company A was looking for further funds in 
order for it to trade effectively. 
Mr D complained to Seedrs in November 2019. In summary he said:
Company As campaign was not fair, clear and not misleading as it failed to disclose 
that Company As auditor had expressed concerns, prior to the campaign, around its 
ability to continue operating and to meet its financial obligations.
Seedrs failed to inform him that Company A intended to raise more equity in 2019 
and the campaign didnt disclose all of Company As existing debt and liabilities.
Seedrs misled investors on the actual use of proceeds of the funds raised as 
Company A used these to fund its operational expenses in 2018 and 2019 as 
opposed to a marketing push in 2019.
Mr D said he wouldnt have invested in Company A had he known the above and so he felt 
Seedrs should refund him the money hed invested.
Seedrs looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
As set out in its due diligence charter, it checked any financial information included in 
the campaign against Company As accounts, however, it didnt audit these 
accounts.
It encourages investors to perform their own due diligence and noted that Mr D had 
requested further financial from Company A after he had invested. 
As an early-stage business that wasnt profit-making, it wasnt surprising that 
Company A would need successful fundraising in order to continue and added that, 
given Mr Ds experience as a sophisticated investor, his knowledge of the financial 
services industry and the risk warnings presented to him, it was sure that he would 
have been aware of this. 
Seedrs wasnt aware of Company As intentions to raise further funding within the 
year. However, Seedrs risk warnings explained that its expected that companies 
raising on Seedrs platform will complete further funding rounds soon after an initial 
campaign.
A disclosure form was completed by Company A confirming there were no loans 
outstanding to the company, including any overdraft fees and it did seek contractual 
warranties from Company A around its financial standing and disclosure of debt. 
The campaign stated the intended use of the funds was to conduct marketing activity, 
as well as other operational and growth activities. So Seedrs didnt agree that it had 
misled Mr D. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the response he received from Seedrs, so he referred his complaint 
to this service for an independent review. 
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think Seedrs had acted 
unfairly. In summary she said:
Whilst the use of proceeds section didnt include much detail, she didnt think it was 
misleading. She noted that Company A campaign didnt say the funds would be 
solely used for marketing and it explained the plausibility of funds being used for 
ongoing expenses. 
She hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Seedrs ought to have known that Company 
A intended to raise further funds following the first campaign, but nevertheless, 
Seedrs had made Mr D aware of this possibility through its risk warnings. 
The campaign provided investors with information about revenue growth figures only 
which Seedrs checked as part of its due diligence process. The campaign didnt 
disclose any profit or loss information and Company A was never promoted as profit-
making business. 
If Company As financials were important to Mr D then he ought to have conducted 
his own due diligence on this. And added that the information relating to Company 
As auditors comments was freely available to the public before the campaign was 
launched. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In response he said Seedrs had failed to 
disclose the following two key pieces of information which meant his investment in Company 
A was much riskier than he was led to believe:
The auditors had already informed Company As existing shareholders that Company 
A needed to successfully complete a fundraising exercise in the last quarter of 2018 
to enable it to meet is liabilities, which indicated a material uncertainty about the 
companys ability to continue.
Company A had significant existing liabilities, as evidenced by its 2017 balance sheet 
and its July 2018 management accounts (in which £370,000 was listed as being 
debt), which were not disclosed to investors as part of and during the campaign.
In response to Mr Ds comments, the investigator explained that Company A's existing debt 
is different to existing liabilities. She said Company A informed Seedrs that there was no 
existing debt and informed it of the existence of two convertible loan notes. 
As Mr D remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but Ill explain my 
reasons why.
Regulatory framework
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Seedrs was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. 
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Seedrs was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As promotional material, Seedrs needed to satisfy itself
that the campaign itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A, it would 
continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself, Seedrs would need to carry out reasonable
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given
case, is something which is very much left to each provider to determine and would vary
according to the particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to
provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself onthe essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Taking the above into account - Ive firstly considered how Seedrs acted, focussing on how 
the investment in Company A was promoted.
Company As financials
I understand Mr D feels Seedrs failed to disclose important financial information regarding 
Company A. Specifically, he says Seedrs ought to have made him aware that Company A 
had significant existing liabilities as evidenced by its 2017 balance sheet and its July 2018 
management accounts. 
Seedrs set out in its membership agreement the level of checks it would conduct on investee 
companies. This explained:
9.2 Our Review and Approval. We have reviewed every campaign that you see on 
the platform (or, in the case of campaigns created by us, we have prepared the 
campaign), and we have approved its contents as of a specified date as a financial 
promotion for the purposes of the FCA Rules. This means that we have concluded 
that the information, taken as a whole, is "fair, clear and not misleading" as of such 
date, which in turn means that for factual statements we have reviewed evidence of 
their accuracy, and that for aspirational statements or statements of opinion or belief 
we believe they are phrased appropriately in light of their speculative or subjective 
nature.
This was also made clear to Mr D directly in Company As campaign:
In approving this campaign, Seedrs has concluded that the information, taken as a 
whole, is "fair, clear and not misleading." This means that for factual statements we 
have reviewed evidence of their accuracy, and that for aspirational statements we 
believe they are phrased appropriately in light of their speculative nature.
Seedrs membership agreement also made it clear that it doesnt provide any advice and 
again reinforces that it will only review whats contained within the campaign:
9.3 No Recommendation; No Reliance on Other Information. Our approval of a
campaign, as described in paragraph 9.2, does not mean that we are recommending 
that you make an investment in the business, that we believe the business is likely to 
be successful or that we take any responsibility or will in any way be liable to you if 
the business is not successful. The investment decision with respect to any 
investment through the platform is yours and yours alone. Other than what is 
contained in the campaign, we have not reviewed or approved any information about 
the business.
Having looked at the campaign presented to Mr D, I can see that no factual statements 
regarding the profitability of Company A were given. As such, Seedrs wasnt required to 
conduct due diligence on the profitability of Company A. The only financial information 
provided in the campaign was that Company A had revenue growth from £171,000 in 2015 
to £425,000 in 2017. However, this was caveated with an explanation that information was 
taken from unaudited management accounts. And Im satisfied Seedrs were in receipt of 
these prior to promoting the campaign.
Seedrs due diligence charter explained that it would disclose details of an investee 
companys outstanding debts:Outstanding debts
We require each company to provide details of any outstanding debts and disclose 
the details in the Campaign. Our standard agreements also contain a contractual 
commitment from the company not to use the investment proceeds of their fundraise 
for the purpose of paying off existing debts, unless this has been clearly been stated 
in the Use of Proceeds section of their campaign.
With this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether Seedrs should have disclosed the 
£370,000 listed as debt in Company As July 2018 management accounts. Seedrs has 
confirmed that, in line with its due diligence process, it obtained a disclosure form signed by 
Company A to confirm whether it had any loans outstanding. Ive seen a copy of this, in 
which Company A stated it had no loans or overdraft fees outstanding. Company A did, 
however, confirm that there were two convertible loan notes that it had issued prior to the 
campaign - totalling £350,000. Ive also seen copies of these loan note agreements and can 
confirm that these funds were to be converted to equity as part of the fundraising round. As 
such, the loan notes did not represent debt to Company A which would have remained 
outstanding after the funding round. So Im persuaded Seedrs didnt mislead Mr D by not 
disclosing details of the convertible loans as outstanding debt. 
Mr D also says that Seedrs should have disclosed that Company As auditors had informed 
Company As existing shareholders that it needed to successfully complete a fundraising 
exercise in the last quarter of 2018 to enable it to meet its future liabilities. Whilst I accept 
that not including key information about an investee company can render a promotion 
misleading, I dont think that is the case here. Generally, investee companies that are 
looking to raise funds via crowdfunding are not yet profitable and rely on future fundraising to 
continue their growth. This risk was highlighted to Mr D in Company As campaign:
Given the nature and  type of businesses presented on the Seedrs platform, it is 
possible that the business has very little cash remaining prior to receiving this 
investment, and the investment sought may be necessary for the business's on-going 
existence.
The FCA said in its October 2013 consultation paper on regulatory approach to 
crowdfunding (and similar activities) CP13/13 that:
Different firms employ different approaches to due diligence. We expect it to be clear 
to investors how much due diligence has been conducted and whether the investor 
should be conducting further research of their own.
In Mr Ds complaint, Seedrs had made him aware what checks it would conduct - confirming 
the accuracy of factual statements in the campaign. Seedrs membership agreement also 
made it clear that it wouldnt review anything not contained within the campaign. The 
campaign contained very limited financial information and, importantly, contained no 
information about Company As profitability or level of debt, so I think Mr D ought to have 
been aware that Seedrs hadnt conducted due diligence on this. Seedrs has explained that it 
encourages investors to conduct their own research before investing, so if the financial 
stability of Company A was important to Mr D, I think he ought to have made his own 
enquiries or decided not to go ahead given the absence of any of this information in the 
campaign. 
The company accounts which Mr D has referred to in his complaint were all readily available 
to investors in the public domain through the Companies House website. He could have also 
asked Seedrs or Company A directly for this information. Ive seen that Mr D eventually did 
ask for this information once he began making enquiries around Company As financials in 
around October 2019. But clearly this was some time after he had agreed to invest.On a final note on the issue of the financials of Company A, I recognise that the two 
convertible loans only accounted for £350,000 of the £370,000 listed in Company As July 
2018 management accounts. Seedrs has explained that it wasnt required to disclose all 
debt to Mr D as it isnt obligated to provide potential investors with exhaustive financial 
information. However, I dont agree. Considering Seedrs due diligence charter said it would 
require each company to provide details of any outstanding debts and disclose the details in 
the Campaign, I think it ought to have made Mr D aware in the campaign that Company A 
had around £20,000 debt. However, if it had, I dont think it would have made any difference 
to Mr Ds decision to invest. Clearly £20,000 debt isnt a lot considering Company As pre-
money valuation at this time was just over £2,600,000 and it was raising close to 
£1,000,000. Also, Im not persuaded the financials of Company A were so important to Mr D 
at the time of investing that it would have prevented him from investing.
Further fundraising 
Its clear from the submissions from Mr D and Seedrs that its disputed when Seedrs became 
aware that Company A intended to raise more funds on the platform. Mr D has referred 
Seedrs to information he had received through his enquiries with Company A in October 
2019. Seedrs says Mr D referenced a communication Company A sent to Seedrs in July 
2019, in which Company A sought Seedrs consent to raise a further £600,000 in 2019. 
However, Seedrs says this doesnt prove it knew Company A wanted to raise further funds 
prior to the first campaign as this communication was sent after the initial campaign had 
closed in May 2019. 
Whilst Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Seedrs knew about Company As intentions to 
further raise on the platform, I dont think I need to make a finding on this. I say this as 
Company As provided a clear risk warning regarding the possibility of further funding:
4. Dilution
Any investment you make in a business displayed on the platform is likely to be subject to 
dilution. This means that if the business raises additional capital at a later date, it will issue 
new shares to the new investors, and the percentage of the business that you own will 
decline.
The above was also explained under clause 10.4 of Seedrs membership agreement and so 
I dont think Mr D was misled here. 
Use of proceeds
Mr D says Company As campaign was also misleading as it said Company A would use the 
funds raised for marketing purposes.
Company As campaign provided a section on the use of proceeds. This explained the 
following:
The new investment will provide marketing budgetInvestment will also be used to 
ensure the company has adequate resource to manage the growing network and 
maximise revenues accordingly.
Whilst its clear the campaign said Company A would use some of the funds for marketing, it 
also said funds would be used to ensure Company A had adequate resource. Seedrs has 
confirmed that its come to light following the completion of the campaign, that Company A 
used most of the funds raised for operational reasons rather than solely on marketing. 
However, I can see from the email chains between Mr D and Company A from October 2019 that Company A did spend some of the funds raised on marketing. The campaign didnt say 
how much of the funds raised would be allocated to marketing and resourcing the company 
and so I dont think the information provided by Seedrs about the campaign was misleading. 
If how much Company A was planning on spending on marketing was important to Mr Ds 
decision to invest then again I would have expected him to have made enquiries into this 
before investing. However, he didnt contact Company A until after he had invested and so 
Im satisfied he was happy to proceed with his investment without this knowledge.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Seedrs Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman