DRN-3086950
The complaint
Mrs T, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses and Mrs T, here is a summary of the loans approved. Morses 
has explained 
If any loans are outside our data retention period of 6 years, we have no 
documentation for them but we have included a summary. We consent to you 
including these loans in your investigation.
Regarding any missing loans, whilst Morses Club did acquire some Shopacheck 
financial services accounts, we only acquired open accounts at the point of 
acquisition in March 2014. The loans we do not hold information for were most likely 
closed, settled or sold before this point, and therefore the accounts remain the 
responsibility of [name of a third party here] now in administration with [accountancy 
firm named here].
Morses has told us that the loans with account number ending *7196 are loans in the table 
numbered as 2 and 3. 
We do not have any information about loan 1 from either Mrs T or Morses. Morses has told 
us that loans 4 to 6 were issued by it.
LoanDate Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
instalments AmountHighest weekly 
repayment
2 07/02/2014 05/12/2014 32 £300.00 £15.00
3 20/02/2015 22/01/2016 50 £500.00 £17.50
About an 18 month gap in lending
4 01/09/2017 28/12/2017 20 £200.00 £15.00
5 09/03/2018 03/05/2019 33 £400.00 £20.00
About an 8 month gap in lending
6 14/01/2020 10/12/2020 34 £200.00 £10.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He explained that the large gaps in lending 
between loans 3 and 4 and again between loans 5 and 6 led him to treat these as breaks in 
the lending chain. This made a difference to how he thought Morses should have 
approached the applications for loans 4 and loan 6. 
And he noted that there was a more than a two month gap between paying off loan 4 and 
Mrs T applying for loan 5 which, in his view, would not have acted as an alert to Morses that 
Mrs T was having any financial problems. 
Our adjudicator did not think that Morses needed to put things right for Mrs T. 
Mrs T disagreed and explained (paraphrased by me):
the breaks in the lending was because in between the Morses loans she was paying 
loans to another home credit provider
she suffered a bereavement in December 2016 which led to a dire financial situation
the loans often were repaid late
she was living on benefits at the time and struggling with priority bills. 
Mrs T, through her representative, has said that she was going to forward to us copy bank 
statements for the period October 2015 to January 2016. Nothing has been received from 
her. She is represented by a professional claims management company and it has received 
notification from us that  that the complaint was being referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision and was asked to send any additional information to us by 4 October 2021. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But in Mrs Ts circumstances I do not think 
that four loans in one year was enough to have established a pattern. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs T could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs Ts representative has said that at the time of the lending she was earning £1,000 and 
her outgoings were about £900. I assume that these were monthly figures. But I have not 
been sent any evidence of this and I have no details as to which loan or year this statement 
refers to. So, I attach little weight to it. 
In its final response letter to Mrs T Morses has said Your application history shows you 
declared you had an average income of £270.43, expenditure of £190.00 and a disposable 
income of £80.43, which was more than adequate to meet your repayments.  I assume 
Morses is referring to weekly figures here. But it makes no indication to which loan this 
relates and whether that was 2017 or 2020. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship then I think that Morses was entitled to rely on 
the figures Mrs T supplied. It may be that by the third loan in the loan table I would have 
expected additional checks to have been carried out by Morses, but without more evidence 
from Mrs T then I do not know what those checks might have revealed. 
And from what Morses has told us it seems that loan 3 was issued by Shopacheck and so it 
seems, according to the information given to us by Morses, that loan 3 was not a loan 
assessed by Morses in any event. 
The gaps in the lending are significant and I agree with our adjudicator that these break the 
lending relationship. It may have been that Mrs T was borrowing from other lenders in the 
interim periods but Morses would not necessarily have known that. 
So overall, I think that the checks it carried out for each of the loans was proportionate to the 
loan sums and the lending relationship situation at the time Mrs T applied. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman