DRN-3193096
The complaint
Mr A complains that the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined to refund a 
payment hed made on his credit card to a car rental company when hiring a car.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr A purchased an online voucher for 30 days car rental from August to 
September 2020. The voucher set out that Mr A would need to pay on arrival at the 
merchants car rental desk USD 90.37 and leave a refundable deposit of USD 1500 
although these amounts would be charged in the local currency of where the car was 
being hired from. The voucher also said that there may be additional fees for other 
optional services that would be payable at the rental desk and that All terms, conditions 
and prices are subject to change.
Mr A says that after travelling abroad he produced the voucher at the car rental desk and 
was handed a contract agreement showing a very different amount than he had been 
expecting to rent the car. He also says that he was asked to initial the Loss damage 
Reduction clause (LDR). Mr A says he challenged the car rental employee as to the 
costs and told them that he did not require any extras. He says the employee said that the 
amount contained in the agreement was the deposit which would be refunded to him once 
the car was returned undamaged. Mr A says the employee told him the rental cost of the 
car would be deducted from the deposit on the cars return.
Mr A says he signed the agreement and initialled the LDR box and paid around £2,500 to 
hire the car (13.937 RON). However, having taken the car, Mr A became unhappy at the 
charges that appeared on the contract and, having also looked at reviews about the 
company on the internet, decided to return the car the next day as he felt he had been the 
victim of a fraud. Mr A says that on returning the car he was advised by a different 
employee who was working at the desk that there was no deposit to be refunded to him. 
Mr A decided to leave the car and make alternatively arrangements.
Mr A complained to the merchant that he had been misled about the deposit and the 
actual hire costs and asked for a refund. He said he was happy to pay the full amount of 
USD90.37 for renting the car even though he had not kept it for the 30 days. The 
merchant declined to refund any money to Mr A. It said that Mr A had signed the contract 
agreeing to pay the charges and the agreement was clear that there would be no refunds 
in the event of an early return of the car and a cancellation of the agreement. The 
merchant said Mr A had not paid any sum as a deposit and he had accepted the LDR. It 
said all the charges were set out in the agreement.
Mr A disagreed with the merchants view. He made a claim to Halifax under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) that, due to both a breach of contract and 
misrepresentation, he should be reimburse the amount of approximately £2,500 which he 
had paid as a deposit for renting the car.
Halifax considered Mr As claim under both section 75 and under chargeback. However, 
Halifax declined Mr As claim as it said that he had signed the contract showing he agreed 
to the charges and there was no evidence there had been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation.
Mr A disagreed with Halifaxs decision and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he had been misled about the deposit/cost of hire and that the actions of the car rental 
company amounted to fraud.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She said that 
the agreement set out the total estimated cost of the agreement amounted to around 
£2,500 and that there was a cancellation fee for the same amount. Our investigator said 
Mr A had also initialled the LDR clause which set out that by doing so he had agreed to 
purchase the LDR. She said nowhere in the contract did it state there was a refundable 
deposit. Mr A had also signed the declaration which said, I confirm that all charges will be 
paid immediately without offset or deduction and that no refunds are due in case I wish to 
terminate the rental prior to date/time due date above.
Our investigator said the terms and conditions were clear in respect of cancellation and 
Halifax hadnt acted unfairly by declining to pay Mr As claim under section 75. She also 
said that in regard to the chargeback claim, the merchant had defended the dispute with 
Mr A and again she didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly by declining his claim under this 
scheme.
Mr A disagreed with the view of our investigator and so the complaint was passed to me. 
Mr A supplied very detailed reasons which I summarised to the following points below. I 
appreciate I havent repeated everything Mr A had raised but concentrated on what I 
considered to be the most important points.
Mr A said that what he paid was a deposit and not a charge as it was linked to the LDR 
clause. He said the early return of the car, without any damage, meant no deduction for 
the condition of the car could be made. He disagreed that the deposit amount was 
included in the declaration regarding early cancellation as it referred only to charges. Mr A 
said he was charged for services that did not exist in the contract and that he had asked 
for clarification of the various charges that were described by acronyms at the time he was 
handed the contract but had been misled by the employee that this amount was the 
deposit. He said he was told he was paying a larger deposit than that set out in the 
voucher because the car was a bigger size. Mr A said he hadnt agreed to the super 
collision damage waiver (shown as SLDW on the contract) as he had signed the LDR 
clause and these two things were completely different. Mr A said the charges were 
misrepresented in the contract.
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Mr A had also raised that hed only made a claim under section 75 and not under the 
chargeback scheme. While I accepted that, I didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly when 
considering his claim under both, as this meant it had looked at whether either of the two 
available options to investigate the claim applied and so went beyond what Mr A had 
requested.
Looking firstly at Section 75, this allows consumers in certain circumstances where goods 
or services have been paid for via a credit card to make a claim against the credit provider 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation that arises with the company that supplied 
the goods or services. Id seen that Mr As payment to the hire car company fitted the 
requirements for a claim under section 75 to be raised.
Here, Mr A said that the contract was both misrepresented to him and breached by the 
car rental company. However, my remit was not to consider the actions of the merchant but of Halifax. I had to decide whether Halifax had acted fairly in the way it had handled 
Mr As claim.
Id been provided with a copy of the rental agreement, a copy of the voucher Mr A first 
purchased and very detailed explanations by Mr A about what had happened. Id also 
seen the response provided by the rental company.
In regard to the voucher, Mr A had accepted that this didnt set the terms and conditions 
of the agreement as it said these could all change. The voucher also said that there could 
be other charges applied for various optional extras. So, I thought it was reasonable to 
say the rental agreement itself was the document that contained the terms, conditions 
and costs of the hiring of the car over the required period.
In weighing up the evidence as to whether Halifax had acted fairly, it was important to 
note that while Mr As had provided a detailed statement as to what had happened at the 
car rental desk the car rental company hadnt accepted this. It said Mr A had signed the 
contract so was bound by its terms. Id seen that Halifax said there wasnt any evidence of 
a misrepresentation by the car hire company, but I hadnt seen that it had set out why it 
had rejected Mr As version of events. Halifax appeared to have found that by signing the 
rental agreement Mr A had both understood and accepted the terms and conditions.
Looking at the rental agreement, Id seen that on the righthand side it set out the various 
charges that have been applied. Above the charge summary entries it said 
Deposits/plati and showed a figure of 13,937 RON which was the local currency. This 
figure was actually the total amount paid by Mr A and equated to around £2,500. Mr A 
said this meant that amount was the deposit and had been treated as that amount by the 
rental company.
However, plati actually means payments, though I wouldnt have expected anyone who 
didnt speak the local language to recognise that word. Although Id noted that this didnt 
say deposit in the singular nor did it say refundable deposit I thought the use of the 
term deposits could be potentially misleading and confusing, particularly if the car hire 
employee at the desk had also said this figure was the deposit amount as opposed to 
being the total cost of hiring the car.
I thought Mr A had provided a credible and consistent account about what had happened 
at the car hire desk. Id also seen that he was so concerned that the company hadnt 
acted fairly that despite needing a hire car hed chosen to return it and put himself to 
some inconvenience making new arrangements. So, I didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Halifax to have discounted what Mr A had said just because the company 
disagreed with it. 
I thought, looking at Mr As account of what happened at the car rental desk, that it was 
reasonable for Mr A to have accepted the employees explanation that he was paying a 
refundable deposit based on the size of the car hed hired when hed challenged them.
Looking next at the items and figures which were presented underneath the deposits 
there was shown a charge summary. Which listed that the contract was for 30 days but 
that the fee for that was shown as 0.00 and then there were costs for fuel, RA tax, road 
tax, eco tax, OOH, SLDW and assist. The total costs were then shown under Total 
estimated as 13,937.19. It then said, renter payments (plati) and again showed the 
figure of 13,937.19 and a cancel fee of 13,937.19.
I couldnt see there was an explanation provided for the abbreviations used and I was 
unclear why the total was shown as estimated since the hire company said this was the cost of hiring the car. The use of the word plati could also potentially confuse as it 
appeared to possibly be referring to the deposits payment above. Id also seen that the 
hire cost appeared as 0.00. Taking this into account and that Mr A was reassured by 
what the car rental employee had said about the payment being a deposit that would be 
refunded, I wasnt surprised that Mr A hadnt been alerted by the cancel fee. And 
although the contract had a section entitled Important information and that this section 
said there would be No refunds for early returns I thought it was reasonable that Mr A 
had assumed that section didnt apply to the amount he believed hed paid as a deposit 
in case the car was damaged while in his care.
Id seen that Mr A disputed that hed asked for any extras and looking at the optional 
extras that appear to have been added, I understood there had been a charge for the car 
being collected and dropped off after hours and for cover if the car had to be replaced due 
to breakdown or accident. However, the largest charge had been for the SLDW which 
was referring to Mr A having purchased super collision damage waiver.
Mr A strongly refuted he purchased SLDW cover or had any need to do so due to his own 
personal insurance. He had provided a copy of his own insurance which would have 
provided loss damage waiver cover up to 10,000 euros. Looking at this I didnt think it was 
likely that Mr A would have requested additional SLDW coverage from the car hire 
company
Mr A accepted he signed the LDR clause and by doing so had taken responsibility for all 
loss and damage should it occur to the car. The car rental company said that by doing so 
Mr A was not required to provide a deposit when taking the car, but I didnt think that was 
clear from the agreement. The LDR clause said that LRD is not insurance/Renters 
responsibility up to $0.00 USD (DEPOSIT). I thought it was reasonable to say that Mr A 
wouldnt have been aware he hadnt paid a deposit when hed been told the opposite by 
the car hire employee.
As I thought it was reasonable for Mr A to have accepted the assurances from the car hire 
desk employee that he was paying a deposit only at the point he hired the car, then I 
thought it would have been fair for Halifax to have taken that into account when looking at 
whether there had been a misrepresentation. I was unclear how Halifax had weighed up 
Mr As version of what had been said to him by the company or why it had reached a view 
that no misrepresentation had taken place.
I thought that if Halifax had looked beyond simply accepting that by signing the contract 
Mr A had accepted the terms and conditions, it would have found it more likely than not 
that the employee had made an untrue statement to Mr A about his paying only a 
deposit. And that untrue statement had induced Mr A to sign the car hire agreement. I 
think it would have been fair and reasonable for Halifax to have accepted his claim 
under section 75.
Mr A raised that there had been both a misrepresentation and a breach of contract but 
as the car had been supplied to Mr A, I couldnt reasonably say that there had been a 
breach of the contract terms. Mr A had argued that the breach was the failure to return 
his deposit, but as I thought hed been misled into believing hed paid a deposit, then I 
didnt think a breach of contract needed to be looked at further. I also didnt think I 
needed to look at the chargeback decision for the same reason.
So, for the reasons given, I was intending to uphold Mr As complaint. I didnt think Halifax 
had dealt with his claim under section 75 regarding the misrepresentation of the car hire 
agreement fairly. In light of that I thought it was fair for Halifax to do the following:
If Mr A had paid the credit card balance in full then to refund him the amount of 13,937RON (calculated back to GBP £ using the applicable currency conversion 
rate for August 2020) together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Mr A hadnt paid the full balance off, then to rework his credit account as 
though this payment hadnt happened and refund any credit charges incurred.
Halifax hasnt asked me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision and says it 
will agree to settle Mr As claim.
Mr A says that he feels he was poorly dealt with by Halifax and would like to see it 
incentivised by being fined or given a verbal warning that it should look more 
thoroughly into claims where misrepresentation is raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party asked me to reconsider my provisional decision, I have still reviewed 
it against the evidence. I havent changed my mind and I am upholding Mr As complaint.
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about how his section 75 claim was handled by 
Halifax, but my remit isnt to punish businesses for poor service. Here, I was satisfied that Mr 
A had been misled by the car hire employee when taking out the car rental agreement. And I 
also thought the agreement had the potential to confuse when taking into account what Mr A 
had been told at the car rental desk. I didnt think Halifax had explained clearly why it didnt 
think any misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr A has informed me that he has paid this amount off his credit card balance although it is 
possible there was one months interest applied by Halifax. If there was any additional 
interest charged to Mr A then Halifax will need to reimburse this.
Putting things right
Im asking Halifax to do the following:
 As Mr A has paid the credit card balance in full then it must refund him the 
amount of 13,937RON (calculated back to GBP £ using the applicable currency 
conversion rate for August 2020) together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Mr A didnt pay the full balance off before interest was applied then it should 
to rework his credit account as though this payment hadnt happened and 
refund any credit charges incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr As complaint and Im asking Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do the following:  
As Mr A has paid the credit card balance in full then it must refund him the 
amount of 13,937RON (calculated back to GBP £ using the applicable currency 
conversion rate for August 2020) together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.If Mr A didnt pay the full balance off before interest was applied then it should 
to rework his credit account as though this payment hadnt happened and 
refund any credit charges incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman