DRN-2010472
 
The complaint
Ms B complains about problems shes had with Metro Bank Plcs administration of her 
accounts. She describes difficulties she had opening the accounts, and with using the 
accounts for both every day and specific activities. 
In May I made a provisional decision for this case, as Id reached a different view to our 
investigator. I explained why I felt thered been some issues with the service Metro Bank 
provided to Ms B. And I asked both Ms B and Metro Bank to let me know if there were any 
more details they thought I needed to consider before I made a final decision. 
Metro Bank said they had nothing further to add. Ms B has made further comments about 
the service she received from Metro Bank, and highlighted certain parts of what happened 
that she feels I havent got right. Ive considered all of these points before making my final 
decision, but Im still of the view set out in my earlier provisional decision. 
Where itll help to make my decision clear, Ill directly refer to Ms Bs comments. Otherwise, I 
dont intend to go through each point shes raised when explaining my view about the case. 
My decision will be clearer if I simply explain my view and the reasons behind it.
What happened
Theres been lengthy complaint correspondence, which Ive summarised here under five 
main areas:
1. Ms B wasnt happy with Metro Banks service in early 2019 when opening the new 
accounts.
2. Ms Bs friend couldnt have a card to take cash from her account using a cash 
machine.
3. A different bank told Ms B the sort code for her account was wrong when she tried to 
move money over.
4. Ms B was unhappy with the information she received when using a cash machine. 
5. Ms B hasnt received paper statements, despite saying she wanted these when she 
opened the account. 
Ms B wanted to switch her current account. She also wanted to open a new, separate, trust 
account. Ms B wanted her friend to be able to access the money in her current account in 
order to assist her with her day to day needs, but she didnt want to have a joint account with 
them. 
Ms B spoke to Metro Bank over the telephone in February 2019. Ms B has commented that 
she thinks I havent listened to the right calls, and that there was an earlier call in January. 
But Ive heard a call on 6 February 2019, speaking to someone called Joe, which sounds to 
me like the first time Ms B was speaking to anyone about her matter. That call led directly to 
one on 7 February 2019, speaking to the manager of a particular branch of Metro Bank. I 
find it more likely than not that these are the first calls Ms B had with Metro Bank. 
Having listened to the calls, Ive heard that Metro Bank told Ms B she could have a current 
account and set up a third-party mandate so her friend could access it. But they explained 
the friend wouldnt be able to have their own card to use in a cash machine. Theyd have to 
visit a branch instead to take cash out. 
Ms B has said that her friend would need to visit a specific branch of Metro Bank to take 
money out, but I dont think thats right. In an email on 16 May 2019, Metro Bank said:
Although your third party mandate doesnt allow [Ms Bs friend] to hold a debit card 
or cheque book, is does allow him to withdraw cash from any of our stores.
On the 7 February call, Ms B asked Metro Bank if theyd be able to witness her signature on 
a document that went with the trust account she wanted to open. The bank told her they 
could. 
Ms B decided to go ahead with opening the accounts. She arranged with her friend to visit a 
branch of Metro Bank in late February. The current account was opened, with a third-party 
mandate in place. Metro Bank have confirmed that Ms B said on her application that she 
wanted paper statements for the account. 
But the trust account couldnt be set up. Metro Bank said in branch that they couldnt witness 
the signature needed on the trust document. Ms B decided not to open the trust account with 
Metro Bank after that. 
With the current account set up, Ms B tried to have some money paid into it. She gave the 
details for the account to a third-party company, but they said the sort code was wrong. 
Metro Bank told Ms B the sort code was correct. The money was later moved successfully 
using that sort code. 
Ms B also went to a cash machine and used her Metro Bank card. The machine told her she 
could have £500. But when Ms B tried to take that out, the machine said her PIN was wrong. 
She then used a card for an old bank account and got the money she needed. Metro Bank 
said the PIN must have been correct to get the account balance, so they didnt know why the 
machine said it was wrong. 
Ms B has also said shes not received any paper statements for the account. Metro Bank 
have looked into this but havent been able to explain what has happened. 
The complaints were raised and discussed over a series of emails. The issues werent 
resolved so Ms B came to us. Our investigation found that Metro Banks service was 
reasonable. Ms B felt that finding hadnt really dealt with her complaints properly, so the 
case has passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1. The service when opening the new accounts
Ms B was able to set up the current account that she wanted. And she was able to get the 
third-party mandate set up for it. That achieved what Ms B was trying to do, and it was in line 
with what Metro Bank said could be done when they spoke to her in February. So I find 
Metro Bank performed reasonably there.  It seems like a key issue to me when setting up the trust account that a key document lacked 
a witnessed signature. Metro Bank said in branch that they couldnt be the witness, but Ive 
heard call recordings where they said they could. 
I dont think the issue here is that Metro Bank should have witnessed the signature. I accept 
that wasnt a service they offered. But that should have been accurately explained when 
Ms B asked about it on the phone. I find Metro Banks service was unreasonable in that way. 
Ive heard on Ms Bs calls with Metro Bank how it was inconvenient for her and her friend to 
visit the branch, and that was why she called ahead to make sure everything would work first 
time. The error here left Ms B disappointed and frustrated that her trust account couldnt be 
opened as planned. 
Ms B has since decided not to open the trust account with Metro Bank. This shows me how 
let down she felt by the error here. I think some compensation to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused for Ms B is due in this case, but Ill decide on the exact amount after Ive 
looked at the rest of her complaints. 
2. A card for Ms Bs friend
I can understand Ms B wanted her friend to be able to have the convenience of visiting a 
cash machine to access the account, rather than having to go to a branch of Metro Bank. 
But Ive heard that Metro Bank told Ms B at an early stage this wouldnt be possible. 
I accept thats a reasonable position for Metro Bank to take on the point, and its been 
explained to Ms B suitably before she decided to go ahead with switching her account. As 
such, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
3. The account sort code
The fact the money was eventually moved using the sort code Metro Bank gave Ms B tells 
me that it was correct. So I see nothing unreasonable in their service on this point either. 
4. What the cash machine said
I can see Ms B would have been surprised not to be able to withdraw the money the cash 
machine receipt said she could have. But she was able to then get money with another card. 
I think that took the urgency out of the problem. 
Ultimately, Ms B was able to avoid any financial impact at the time. I suspect the issue here 
is that, despite what the cash machine said, Ms Bs card had a £300 daily withdrawal limit on 
it. Remembering that fact will stop whatever has happened here being an ongoing issue. So 
Ive decided its disproportionate to look at this point in more details, as no further action is 
needed to put it right. 
5. Paper statements
Given its agreed Ms B told Metro Bank she wanted paper statements for her account, its 
unreasonable she hasnt had them. Its not clear whats happened here, but Ive decided to 
infer from Metro Banks lack of an explanation that there is a problem somewhere in their 
handling of the statements. Putting things right
In all these complaints, I can see that Ms B has been very unhappy with the service she 
received from Metro Bank. Shes written about her personal circumstances, and the impact 
these have on her daily life, and how that is made worse by the failings she sees in Metro 
Banks service to her. Shes made similar comments again in response to my provisional 
decision. 
I think some compensation is justified to recognise the trouble and upset caused by Metro 
Bank giving Ms B incorrect information about witnessing the signatures on the trust 
paperwork, and not giving her the paper statements as expected. But the exact amount for 
this kind of remedy is always going to be a matter of opinion. 
I recognise the errors here were not intentional, and that overall Metro Banks contact with 
Ms B has been open, polite, and focussed on helping her do what she wants to do. But that 
doesnt change that some of the upset and inconvenience Ms B has suffered could have 
been avoided if the mistakes hadnt been made.
Ms B doesnt seem to have suffered a long-term loss though because of the mistakes. I 
understand she was able to set up the trust account elsewhere. And it doesnt look like the 
lack of statements has affected her ability to manage her account. She says shes actually 
not transferred her current account to Metro Bank, so her day-to-day banking needs wont be 
affected by these issues. 
This makes an important point which I think Ms B should also consider. Metro Bank should 
make the limits of their service clear to their customers to allow them to make an informed 
choice about whether to use that service. Ms B has the choice, given the information Metro 
Bank have given her, whether to continue to use a service she seems to be unhappy with, or 
go elsewhere. 
My view is that a £150 payment recognises the inconvenience Ms B has described in her 
complaints. And it takes account of some of the frustration and upset Ms B feels about how 
she was treated. But Ive not gone any higher as I dont think Metro Bank are responsible for 
all the upset behind these complaints. On some of the issues raised, Ive found the service 
was reasonable. Im only trying to remedy the impact the unreasonable parts of the service 
had on Ms B. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Bs complaints about Metro Bank Plc. To put this matter right, Metro 
Bank Plc should pay Ms B £150 to compensate her for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman