DRN-3332424
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the shares he bought through Templeton Securities Limited 
(an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited). In summary, hes 
said that he wasnt given appropriate advice and information when he made high risk 
investments, and hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 February 2021. The background
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that provisional
decision here, and it forms part of this final decision.
Mr T had been encouraged to switch his pension benefits from a personal pension to a 
SIPP by an unregulated firm. The total value transferred was approximately £50,249. My 
understanding is that Templeton Securities Limited wasnt involved in the advice given to 
Mr T to switch his pension to the SIPP.
Mr T was then persuaded by another unregulated firm to open an account with 
Templeton Securities. When Mr T opened the account in May 2014 he completed a 
Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application Booklet. These said, amongst other 
things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as 
an independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private 
client investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit 
individual client needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will 
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which 
will enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore 
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we 
are unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to 
provide you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you 
provide to us about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will 
enable us to fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and 
liabilities, and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when 
assessing the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to 
the nearest thousand pounds).
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity 
Investments and Investment Bonds, £400,000 was listed under Property, £50,000 under 
Pension Plans and £20,000 under Other Assets. Mr Ts net worth was recorded as 
£470,000, which included his property. Mr Ts income was noted as £60,000, and his 
expenditure £60,000. Mr T has confirmed this was per year, and this is consistent with 
the SIPP application form.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall 
investment strategy.
A tick was placed in the medium category.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Mr T had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe his 
level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was 
ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years) 
for Funds.
When asked if copy information should be sent to his professional intermediary including 
his Independent Financial Adviser, the section for details was left blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of 
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we 
have received and which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2. Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only 
services which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our 
services in accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations 
and rights applying between us and you.
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued 
by the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable 
Regulations, the latter will prevail;3.The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that you are 
not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in a non-
complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product investment 
recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & Conditions should be 
treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product. We will 
action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only able to act 
on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what instructions 
you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when 
you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility 
on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility for 
advising you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information 
supplied by you in the TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual 
circumstances, requirements and objectives. We may provide you with investment advice 
on your request. Information supplied by you, via the TEMPLETON Application Form, 
should be updated as necessary before we give you advice on a particular transaction. If 
you do not inform us of any investment or types of investments, which you do not wish us 
to recommend or purchase for you, we may recommend to you any investments provided 
that we have reasonable grounds for believing that each investment product we do 
recommend is suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance with FCA rules. We do not 
undertake discretionary management of your investments, any investment advice we give 
you is provided on the understanding that we do not accept responsibility on a continuing 
basis for advising on the composition of your portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or 
instigate certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we 
will execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
6. Appropriateness
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to 
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the 
specific type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on 
the basis of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is 
not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, 
you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where 
the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and 
UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that basis and 
we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA 
Rules requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your instructions 
and offer no advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
The account was opened in May 2014, and a sum of £49,165 was transferred from the 
SIPP bank account into it on 20 May 2014. On 21 May 2014 Mr T was e-mailed by an 
unregulated firm asking him to copy and paste the following instructions into an e-mail and 
send it to a specific contact at Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £24,364.50 in Eligere investments pic (ELI) gxg listed securities at best 
for T1 settlement.
I wish to invest £24,364.50 in Emmit plc (EMT) aim listed securities at best for T1 settlement.       
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Mr T confirmed to the unregulated introducer that he had sent the e-mail on the same day.
Templeton bought the shares investing £24,260 in Eligere and £24,240 in Emmit 
(after commission and costs).
Mr T was paid £6,000 by the unregulated firm on 9 June 2014. 
Templeton wrote to Mr T on 11 September 2014. The letter said:
Re: Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type 
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to 
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise 
that in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not 
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in EMMIT on 31 October 
2014. It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer 
money from their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) 
and use that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered 
cash back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a 
third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of 
their pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if they 
have done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmitt plc and Eligere Investments plc was suspended in May 
and June 2015 respectively.
Mr T complained to Templeton Securities through a representative. In summary, it said 
that Mr T believed he wasnt given appropriate advice and information at the time hed 
invested, and hed suffered a financial loss as a result. Templeton Securities didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint and it was subsequently referred to us.One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief, that he thought as Mr T held an advisory portfolio with Templeton it 
had a duty of care to him. He said Mr T was an inexperienced and unsophisticated investor, 
and the language used within the e-mail investment instruction was relatively technical using 
industry specific terms. He thought Templeton should have known that Mr T wasnt providing 
a true execution-only instruction, and contacted him to discuss it and advise him that it was 
unlikely to be suitable for him based on his objectives and risk profile. He thought that 
Templeton shouldnt have accepted this investment instruction.
Templeton Securities didnt agree. In summary, it said that it had acted in accordance 
with the accounts terms and conditions as well as regulatory requirements when it 
accepted the instruction. The fact that the account was established as an advisory 
account didnt mean that the firm undertook a continuing duty to advise. The terms 
provided for it to act on execution only instructions, and it wasnt bound to consider the 
suitability of the shares. It said it was commonplace in the industry for brokers to take 
execution only instructions from clients even if one of the services the broker agreed to 
provide was investment advice.
Templeton Securities said it had written to Mr T on 11 September 2014 about the 
appropriateness of investing in high risk investments and therefore he had time to 
consider the matter and mitigate his position before the shares were suspended in May 
2015.
Templeton said it didnt believe any redress was due to Mr T as this was an execution-
only transaction. It didnt think Templeton had a duty to query Mr Ts investment 
instructions as per Clause 6.4 of its terms and conditions. It said it wasnt required to 
ensure the transaction was suitable or appropriate which mirrored the regulatory position 
under COBS 10.4.1 R; it didnt require firms to assess appropriateness in relation to non-
advised transactions in non- complex financial instruments.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of 
one or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments 
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to 
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only 
sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice 
at the relevant time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client 
Portfolio account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory service. However, 
whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for Templeton to accept 
execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Under the heading Appropriateness, Clause 6.1 said we may be subject to an 
obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service. I think this is reference to the requirements under 
COBS 10 (the regulators Conduct of Business Rules). My understanding is the shares 
bought here werent subject to COBS 10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that 
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-
only basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as 
shares, bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order 
on that basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or 
appropriate for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that 
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction 
in a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or 
product investment recommendations. [My emphasis].
The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Mr T was designated as 
an execution-only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for 
carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto 
say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our 
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a 
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will 
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
Given the particular wording of the 21 May 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities was 
entitled to reasonably believe that Mr T wasnt expecting advice about the merits of the 
transaction. It was an order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that suggests that Mr T was 
asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise suggests that Mr T was 
expecting Templeton to give him advice. I think this is consistent with the investments being 
driven by the unregulated firm. Templeton wasnt therefore accepting responsibility for the 
investment decision executed on an execution only basis as per Clause 3.1. And it carried 
out the instruction as per Clause 4.9. I dont think Templeton was obliged to provide advice 
or information to Mr T at the time that he bought the shares.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We 
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing 
Alexander David, about very similar transactions. Templeton Securities received a 
number of requests to open this type of advisory account with it, all within a relatively 
short period. And very shortly after the accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with 
almost identical wording were sent to Templeton Securities asking to invest in these same 
two shares (and in some cases one other share).
On the day that Templeton Securities received Mr Ts e-mailed instruction to buy the 
shares (21 May 2014), it received a number of other e-mails from different investors all 
with near identical wording and sent to the same person (who I understand held the CF30 
function with Alexander David Securities at that time). Templeton Securities has 
confirmed that it hadnt received any other similarly worded instructions to invest in these 
shares prior to 21 May 2014. And Mr Ts e-mail was one of the first that it had received.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that 
duty wasnt unqualified.
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction 
from Mr T as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an 
obligation to comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued 
by the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any 
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions 
as an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
Templeton Securities was providing regulated financial services and was bound by 
the regulators Principles for Business. This is consistent with the accounts terms 
and conditions.
Principles 3 and 6 said:Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive considered the matter in the context of these Principles and the wider circumstances 
as I have described; that on 21 May 2014 Templeton had received a number of e-mails 
with remarkably similarly worded execution only instructions, from different clients with 
SIPP accounts that it was being asked to process; in the same niche shares, and on non- 
mainstream markets, and sent to the same person.
I think whats key here is that Mr Ts e-mail was one of the first similarly worded e-mails 
that Templeton had received. In those circumstances, I think it was initially reasonable for 
it to process the instruction to invest in the two shares as requested and in accordance 
with the accounts terms and conditions. So I think Mr T would have bought the two 
shares.
Although Templeton Securities only started receiving e-mailed instructions on 21 May 
2014, I think on receiving a series of almost identically worded instructions from different 
unrelated investors, and all sent to the same person, acting reasonably, it ought to have 
been alerted that something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the 
circumstances ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to have taken a 
closer look at the circumstances behind the series of instructions.
So I think in the circumstances, following receipt of several instructions, Templeton should 
have retrospectively taken a closer look at Mr Ts transaction. If it had done so, and looked 
at the information it already had available through the account opening documentation, it 
would have seen that his instructions to invest all his pension into two niche shares, 
presenting significant risks, was clearly at odds with his other financial provision, 
inconsistent with him being a novice investor in equities, with a likely limited understanding 
of the investments, and preferring a medium level of risk.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Mr T and other 
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked 
authorisation to give the advice, and that an unregulated firm was probably breaching the 
general prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have discovered 
that the advice in Mr Ts case was inconsistent with his circumstances and likely 
unsuitable for his pension fund.
In these circumstances, in meeting its obligations under Principle 6 to act in Mr Ts best 
interests, I think Templeton Securities, when making its enquiries and identifying the role 
of the unregulated introducer, should have alerted Mr T to the risks presented by advice 
from an unregulated firm, and that the investments were likely to be unsuitable for his 
circumstances.
So Ive considered what Mr T would likely have done if Templeton Securities, following 
a review of the transaction on receipt of the further e-mails, had subsequently contacted 
him and explained the position; that the firms he had been dealing with were 
unregulated. And the shares that he had bought presented significant risks and were 
inappropriate for his circumstances.
By this stage Mr T had already bought the two shares. As I have said, I think Templeton 
acted in accordance with the accounts terms and conditions in buying the shares on receipt of Mr Ts instructions. So Mr T had already absorbed the costs of buying the shares. The 
shares were trading on specialist markets and may not have been particularly liquid. It was 
likely that if they were sold it would be at a lower price than Mr T had just paid for them. Mr T 
would also have had to pay further transaction costs.
This was against the background that Mr T had been promised a payment of £6,000 
following the purchase of the shares. This payment came from one of the unregulated 
firms. I dont think its likely that Mr T would have received the £6,000 if hed immediately 
sold those shares  he didnt receive payment until 9 June 2014. And the e-mails 
exchanged between Mr T and the unregulated firms from the time prior to the 
transactions show that Mr M was keen to raise a lump sum from his pension. 
The e-mails included: 
3 September 2013
just  following  up or brief conversation  this morning.  If you remember  we spoke  last 
week  about  the fact that [the original  pension  plan provider]  had requested  a list of seven  
things  to be returned  on Aug 17th ( roughly)  and they had at that time not had a reply  
; which  of course  is stalling  an already  very slow process.  You said you'd  chase  up your 
team  and get back  to me as soon  as you knew  what  the situation  is. In the mean  time 
I've had a begging  letter  from HMRC  after the remaining  amount  I owe to then for 
July so the sooner  this issue  is resolved  the better  all round.  If you could  find out 
what  is actually  being  done  and give me an idea of the timescale  to completion  I 
would  be most  grateful.
I look forward  to hearing  from you at your earliest  convenience.
An internal e-mail from the unregulated firm that Mr T was cced into dated 22 October 
2013. It was providing Mr Ts contact details to the person that would be dealing with the 
transaction explaining:
He [Mr T] needs the rebate to settle some tax issues. He needs this completed within the 
6- 8 week time frame.
4 November  2013
I have  received  and competed  the paperwork  that you sent from.and  it's ready  
to post.  However,  I didn't  notice  any mention  of the £7000  that I would  receive  on 
completion  anywhere..  Anyway,  as soon  as I have  something  in black  and white  
I'll get the paperwork  in the post
20 January  2014
Thanks  for the update.  Have  you a rough  idea of the time scale  till completion  
now then.
22 April 2014
.Im  assuming  thats  just about  the final piece  in the jigsaw  so would  you be able 
to advise  me how much  and when  I may receive  the funds  we discussed.
23 May 2014Yesterday  I received  emails  confirming  my investments  in two schemes  with 
Templetons  now that my pension  money  has been  sent from [the pension  provider].  I'm 
assuming  that this must  be the end of the process,  so I was wondering  how long it takes  
for the commission  to come  through.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was likely that Mr T would have sold the 
shares and re-invested differently if Templeton Securities had alerted him that the shares 
presented significant risks sometime shortly after he had bought them. It would have 
meant accepting immediate losses on the shares that he had just bought; additional 
costs to sell and buy new shares, and the loss of the £6,000 that Mr T wanted to use to 
pay a tax bill.
Mr T has subsequently said that he had no idea or other plan on how to pay the tax bill, 
which is why he resorted to these desperate measures. I think this is consistent with the 
evidence available from the time; that Mr T was motivated to buy the shares because of the 
£6,000 payable from the unregulated firm. The shares werent bound to fail; they could have 
increased in value, but they did present risks. And the unregulated firm was still in the 
background; it would likely have given a favourable view of the shares if Mr T had asked for 
its view about selling them.
So in summary, I think Templeton Securities was entitled to act on Mr Ts instructions to 
buy the shares. I think it should have subsequently alerted Mr T to the wider 
circumstances and told him that the shares presented significant risks that werent 
suitable for him. But I think whats key here is that this was after Mr T had bought he 
shares; after Templeton had received a series of very similarly worded e-mails that I think 
should have alerted it that something unusual was going on and looked into the matter. 
Had it done so, for the reasons I have given, I dont think its likely that Mr T would have 
sold the shares in the particular circumstances as I have described above.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
For the sake of completeness, I have also examined a separate basis upon which 
Templeton Securities may be responsible for the same losses. Ive considered the 
findings in the recent Court of Appeal case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. 
The court considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person (Templeton Securities) 
makes an agreement with another person (Mr T) in the course of carrying out a 
regulated activity, which was a consequence of something said or done by a third party 
(an unregulated firm) acting in breach of the general prohibition in section 19 of FSMA. 
Section 27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the 
other party and sets out what the other party can recover. In effect, it would allow Mr T to 
recover the money he invested through his agreement with Templeton Securities.
However section 28 gives the court a discretion to allow an agreement to which section 
27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do so (in 
effect, the court might decide the circumstances meant it wasnt just and equitable to 
allow Mr T to recover the money invested).
In exercising the discretion provided in section 28, the court said in Adams that it was 
required to consider whether the provider knew the third party was contravening the 
general prohibition? The court said:Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that must 
weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on the other 
hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny relief under 
section 28(3). And  
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief 
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is whether 
the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being 
contravened.
Ive considered Mr Ts complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to apply, an 
agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton) in 
consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party (here, the 
unregulated firm(s)). Given the facts of Mr Ts complaint and the surrounding circumstances 
as I have set out above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm(s) were breaching the 
general prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on investments. And I think the advice 
and the unregulated firms actions in providing Mr T with his draft purchase instruction clearly 
played a crucial part in Mr T buying the shares.
However, in considering s28, I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether 
it would be just and equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the 
agreement. The court was required to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party 
was breaching the general prohibition.
For the reasons I have set out above, at the time that it received and processed Mr Ts 
instructions, I dont think Templeton was or ought to have been aware that there was a 
third party acting in breach of the general prohibition. In these circumstances, I think a 
court might well say it was just and equitable to allow the agreement to stand; i.e. Mr T 
couldnt recover his money through s27.
I realise my findings will be very disappointing for Mr T, particularly given what has 
been said before. It has also taken a considerable length of time to get to this stage, 
which I apologise for. However I am bound to consider the matter in light of the firms 
obligations and the terms of the contract as I have set out above. And having done so, I 
think Templeton Securities was entitled to process his investment instructions. And I 
dont think the losses Mr T has sustained were a result of failures by Templeton 
Securities.
For the reasons I outlined, my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I asked Mr T and Alexander David to provide any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr T said that he had decided to only take a medium degree of risk when hed been asked, 
and he thought the companies collapsing as they did showed far more risk than that. He said 
he also didnt recall being given any warning so that he could have sold the shares  even at 
a loss.
Alexander David didnt provide any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional finding not to uphold the 
complaint. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I appreciate my findings will be very disappointing to   
Mr T. However I have to consider what the firms obligations were in the context of the 
particular circumstances in which Mr T bought the shares. 
Mr T is correct in saying the shares presented higher than a medium degree of risk. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I think the firm were entitled to process Mr Ts 
instructions to buy the shares on an execution only basis. Effectively, that meant it just had 
to carry out his instructions to buy. In the particular circumstances it received Mr Ts 
instruction, I dont think it had any wider obligations at the time that the shares were bought. 
And for the reasons I outlined, I dont think its more likely than not that Mr T would have sold 
the shares if Templeton had alerted him to the situation and that the shares presented 
significant risks sometime shortly after he had bought them.
My final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman