DRN-3183032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that in respect of their home insurance claim for theft following a
burglary, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has cancelled their policy back to its
inception date and not accepted the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a policy through their broker with RSA being the insurer for the
building and contents home cover, in August 2013. As a part of the process, in view of the
high value of their jewellery, they were asked to confirm that a safe with a £10,000 cash limit
specification would be installed. And that a Redcare alarm system would be fitted. It was
confirmed through the broker that the relevant safe and alarm system had been fitted. The
policy taken out was for all risks of physical loss or damage to contents, whilst anywhere in
the world.
At the end of May 2019, as Mrs K was going away and Mr K was working away, Mrs K
decided that shed feel safer if her jewellery were kept in the safe of the business premises
she and Mr K owned. On or about 6 August these premises were broken into, and the
jewellery and some cash were stolen.
The claim for cash was dealt with on the commercial policy, but the jewellery wasnt covered.
So Mrs K made a claim on the home policy. RSA appointed loss adjusters who came out
and visited the home. The case was referred for further investigation, and after another
home visit, it was established that Mrs K kept her jewellery in a safe in the bedroom which
only had a £2,000 cash limit specification. There was also just a bells only alarm, not the
one specified when taking out the policy. Mr and Mrs K later told RSA that there was a safe
with the correct specification installed in the loft. This had been done by their son, and Mrs K
hadnt realised this.
RSA said that Mr and Mrs K had made a misrepresentation to it when taking out the policy,
that a safe with the high specification had been installed. It said that it wouldnt have issued
a policy had it known the nature of the safe actually installed. It accepted this was a careless
misrepresentation, but decided to cancel the policy back to its inception date of 2013. It
refunded the premiums but wouldnt consider the claim. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think that Mrs K had made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy. I also wasnt satisfied that RSA was induced 
into issuing a policy. So I said that RSA should reinstate the policy, consider the claim and 
pay compensation.
RSA agreed in the circumstances of the case to reconsider the claim. However it didnt 
agree with reinstating the policy as it wouldnt have renewed it and it doesnt agree with the 
payment of compensation.
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
was there a misrepresentation?
As our investigator has advised when taking out or renewing a policy the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. And if the consumer
makes a qualifying misrepresentation which induces the insurer to issue a policy which it
otherwise wouldnt have done then the insurer has certain rights which can include
cancelling the policy. Here RSA is relying on the alleged misrepresentation that a certain
specification of safe had been installed (not that Mrs K wasnt keeping her jewellery in a
particular safe). I note that when the investigator visited the home Mrs K pointed out the safe
in the bedroom which was where she generally kept her jewellery. She also said there was
another smaller safe (also not compliant), but didnt say there were any other safes in the
property.
Mr and Mrs K later drew to RSAs attention that there was a safe with the correct
specification installed in the loft, they produced details of the delivery note and of the
installing of the safe together with a photo of it. Mrs K said she hadnt been aware of this 
her son had had it installed. I see that RSA raised questions internally about this, including
doubting Mrs Ks story, saying the details of installation conflicted with what the broker had
said at inception. It also said it didnt know that the photo was actually of the insured
property.
But although RSA raised questions about this, I cant see that it sent its investigator back to
look at the safe and where and how it was installed. The broker did say the safe had been
installed in October 2013, when in fact it appears to have been installed in December 2013.
But at subsequent renewals, including 2019 the safe was installed. As Mr and Mrs K have
produced documents from 2013 showing delivery of the safe and details of its installation,
and as RSA didnt appear to follow up on any of its queries about this, I conclude that the
necessary safe was installed at Mr and Mrs Ks home, so there was no misrepresentation
when taking out the policy. The fact that when the jewellery was in the home Mrs K didnt
keep it in that safe is irrelevant for the purposes of CIDRA.
I wont go into details of the alarm  RSA didnt rely on this in its voidance or final response
letters in justifying cancellation of the policy. Nor did it reserve its rights to rely on this at a
later date. So, going forwards, RSA wont be able to fall back on the alarm as a reason for
avoiding liability for the policy.
was RSA induced into issuing a policy?
I would in any case doubt that RSA would have cancelled the policy had it been told there
wasnt an adequate safe there. I say this because the comment from the underwriter is
..had we known [about the inadequate safe], we would have restricted cover for jewellery
after a year or two so we were seduced into providing cover by the promise of the safe.
That appears to concur with the endorsement on the policy up to and including the 2018
renewal which said:
Unless we have agreed otherwise, if the total value of jewellery and watches within your 
total contents sum insured exceeds £75,000 (excluding items declared to us as permanently
stored in a vault or bank safe), a safe or multiple safes (which have been approved by us)must be installed at your home (fitted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions).
We will limit the value of any claim for loss of or damage caused to items of jewellery and
watches to £75,000 in the event of a theft or attempted theft from your home if the above
condition is not met.
So up until the 2019 renewal (six days before the theft), non-compliance with the condition
meant the jewellery would only have been paid up to the £75,000 limit (£50,000 in earlier
years), not that the policy would have been cancelled. The whole endorsement was removed
at the 2019 renewal. Putting aside the question of whether Mr and Mrs K or their broker were
made aware of this, the effect of removing the whole endorsement arguably raises the point
that at the time of the claim, it was no longer necessary to have a safe installed. So I dont
think that RSA has shown that it would have cancelled the policy had it known about there
being a non-compliant safe at the property.
I have noted that RSA believes Mrs K should have advised it that she was moving the 
jewellery out of the home, but accepts that it cannot prove the broker and insured 
conversation and have no further evidence to support that the insured understood the 
requirements for the items to be kept in the safe agreed or to tell the Underwriter of any 
changes to the risk from the Statement of Fact.
I would comment that it is clearly not a requirement of the policy that RSA would need to be 
told of removal of the jewellery elsewhere since it covers all risks of physical loss or damage 
to your contents during the period of insurance, whilst anywhere in the world. To that extent 
a requirement that the jewellery be kept in a safe doesnt fit very well with the overall cover 
provided by the policy.
Ive noted nevertheless that RSA is prepared to consider the claim. Whilst it says it wont 
reinstate the policy, it will have to do so up to and including the policy year 2019 to 2020, As 
Ive found it wasnt justified in cancelling it. I accept that I cant require it to renew the policy 
beyond that date. However if Mr and Mrs K took out a new policy for 2020 and 2021, and 
were charged more because of the cancellation, it will still have to repay the difference in 
premiums as set out below. It will be up to Mr and Mrs K to show RSA evidence of that.
As regards compensation, I note RSA says it would seek redress from the broker. Thats 
matter for it, but I still think its fair to pay Mr and Mrs K compensation.
My provisional findings, as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
  
Putting things right
RSA must reinstate the policy and remove the details of its cancellation from all internal 
and external databases. Mr and Mrs K should be aware that as the premiums have been 
refunded they will be liable to pay those back.
RSA must also now consider the claim.
If Mr and Mrs K have taken out a new policy, RSA should assess what it would have
charged for the policy for the 2020 and 2021 renewals and repay the difference between 
that premium and the premiums Mr and Mrs K were charged for their new policy, if more. 
It should add 8% simple interest on the premium difference to be reimbursed from the 
date(s) any over payments were paid until reimbursement.
The cancellation of the policy has caused some distress to Mr and Mrs K. RSA should 
pay compensation of £200.If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due to Mr and Mrs K, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman