DRN-1949018
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service and the compensation offered by U K Insurance Limited 
following a water damage claim under his landlords insurance policy.
As the policy is in the name of Mr S the decision needs to be in his name only. But Mr S is 
happy for Miss L to be involved as the tenant of the property.
What happened
After previous issues and problems UKI put contractors H in to do the water damage repairs 
at Mr Ss property. But the work wasnt up to standard and communication was very poor. 
Miss L was living there with her family while the property was still damaged and hazardous. 
UKI accepted there had been issues, made arrangements regarding rental payments and 
offered £250 in compensation. Unhappy with this outcome a complaint was brought to this 
service.
Our investigator accepted that the previous complaints had been dealt with separately by the 
offers made at the time by UKI. But she also pointed out the problems appeared to be still 
running on and new points should be raised with UKI for resolution.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She noted UKI had paid out £250 as compensation 
for the problems that had arisen due to H. Even though Mr S wasnt living at the property she 
felt all the issues and problems encountered with this claim meant the compensation amount 
should be increased by a further £250 to make a total of £500. She said that UKI were 
responsible for the poor quality of work and delays provided by its contractors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seem to have been problems from the moment Mr S had to make a claim and there 
are other final response letters on the file from UKI. But this decision is only dealing with the 
issues raised in the final response from September 2019.
I dont think theres any dispute that the level of service, the communication, and the quality 
of the workmanship from H werent good enough. H were appointed in May 2018. 
The problems covered a wide variety of items including:
Some important repairs had been left out of the scope of works including flooring and 
kitchen units;
Wiring and spotlights in the kitchen ceiling although UKI said this was only the case until 
the ceiling was decorated;
Bath panel problems;
The sub floor was listed for checking before any actions could be taken to lay a new 
floor, but indications are that the new floor laying just went ahead without such a check;
The amount UKI was to pay towards the kitchen units was problematic until UKI agreed 
to pay in full;
Delays part from the issues with the kitchen there were lengthy delays in getting a floor 
repair arranged too. Even when appointments were arranged there were mix ups and 
issues with materials;
Wall paper was so poorly done it had to be done again.
I think UKI did take some appropriate action regarding Mrs S and his tenant when it paid out 
a disturbance allowance (£800) for the issues with the bathroom and its usage. UKI also 
paid out partial rental amounts for an 11 month period due to the delays getting the house 
back up to standard. It also agreed to take over the full rental costs after this up until the 
completion of the repairs. Theres no doubt this situation has proven tricky for Mr S and his 
tenant Miss L, but I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. In 
relation to the rental costs I dont think UKI needs to do any more.
I agree with our investigator that UKI is responsible for any issues that crop up due to its 
contractors. Its clear there were significant delays, that there was little communication to 
improve matters and the standard of repairs from H was poor. All of this was distressing for 
Mr S as he tried to ensure the property was still habitable for his tenant. At times there were 
discussions about alternative accommodation for Miss L and her family due to the problems 
being caused by UKIs appointed contractors  H. Overall by the time Mr S brought a 
complaint to this service the issues had been ongoing for well over a year. In the 
circumstances I think the £250 offer from UKI wasnt reasonable. UKI should increase the 
overall compensation amount for distress and inconvenience to a total of £500 in relation to 
this particular complaint.
Putting things right
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman