DRN-3857696
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the service and settlement she received from 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) following an escape of water claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R made a claim on her home insurance for a leak which had caused damage to a ground 
floor bathroom and playroom. LV appointed a leak detection specialist to source and repair 
the leak.
There have been numerous disputes which have arisen during the life of this claim. Ms R is 
unhappy that LVs leak detection specialist failed to locate the leak on several occasions, 
causing delays, and that they caused damage to pipes during their excavations (although 
when this happened, they did repair the damage caused). 
LV says a second leak was located underneath the kitchen, but Ms R feels this leak was 
always the original cause of damage, and water located beneath the bathroom and playroom 
had simply migrated to that area beneath the floor. Based on this, shes unhappy that LV 
insists as treating the kitchen leak as a separate claim.
It has also been noted that pipework within the concrete floor is showing signs of corrosion. 
Ms R wants LV to cover this as she says it has been caused by the pipes being left sitting in 
water from the leak, due to the delays caused by LV and its agents. But LV says the 
corrosion has occurred due to a lack of lagging around the pipes to protect it from reacting 
with the concrete. LV says this is a maintenance issue and not something covered under the 
policy.
Ms R is also unhappy with LVs handling of her alternative accommodation requirements and 
the amount offered to support with food and laundry costs.
LV accepts that it caused delays, distress and inconvenience. To recognise this, it has 
offered Ms R a total of £800 compensation. But it doesnt accept that it failed to offer suitable 
options for alternative accommodation or that the food and laundry allowance it offered was 
unfair.
One of our investigators considered Ms Rs complaint. She issued two slightly different 
assessments. In her second assessment, she said LV was wrong to treat the leaks as 
separate as LVs second leak detection specialist said only one leak had occurred, and 
because the leaks were to the same run of pipe. And she said LV should cover the corroded 
pipe as, on balance, this had been caused by the water from the leak. 
In terms of the overall service, our investigator agreed that LV had caused delays and issues 
which would have caused Ms R unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But she felt the 
£800 LV offered was sufficient to put things right. She also said LV had offered adequate 
options and support with locating alternative accommodation, and that its offer of £10 per 
day for food, plus laundry costs (subject to evidence) was fair and reasonable.
Neither side accepted our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement was able to be 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts, and allowing the parties the opportunity to reply 
before I reached a final decision. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim and complaint 
have been ongoing for several years. Its not my intention to comment on every event 
or dispute thats arisen during that time. Instead, Ill focus only on the issues which 
remain in dispute and which I believe are key to delivering a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to the parties, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, and my role within it.
Im also only considering issues that took place from the start of the claim to the point 
of LVs second final response to Ms Rs complaint  in April 2022. Im aware that 
there have been further issues since that response was issued. If these remain 
unresolved, Ms R can raise a separate complaint with LV, which could be referred to 
our service if she remains dissatisfied with LVs response.
Having considered the available evidence and arguments, Im minded to reach a 
different outcome to that reached by our investigator. Ill explain why addressing each 
issue in turn.
Number of claims
Our investigator said LV should treat the issues in this case as one claim. She 
highlighted LVs own leak detection specialists report, which stated:
From our enquiries, we are satisfied that the damage is a direct result of an 
escape of water. We also consider that there has only been one escape of 
water, not two.
LV has provided subsequent comments from this specialist, confirming they werent 
fully aware of the background to the complaint. They were aware there had been 
visits by a prior leak detection company, but they were under the impression no leaks 
had been identified or remedied. Ive reviewed all the expert reports completed as part of this claim. The second leak 
detection report from October 2021 clearly states that a leak was identified beneath 
the doorway between the playroom and kitchen. There is a photo of this pipework as 
well as of the subsequent repair which was carried out. It was only after the above 
leak was identified and repaired that another leak was discovered beneath the 
kitchen units. 
This leak was discovered after Ms R cancelled her policy with LV. But LV accepted 
that it couldnt be known whether the second leak occurred before or after the policy 
was cancelled. So, it agreed to cover the second leak, which I think was fair and 
reasonable. But LV said this would be subject to a separate claim being set up and a 
second excess fee being payable.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied there have been two separately 
identifiable leaks. It therefore follows that I think LV is correct to treat each leak as a 
separate claim, with a separate applicable excess fee.
Corroded pipework
Ms R says the reason there is corroded pipework within her concrete subfloor is 
because LV caused unreasonable delays in identifying and repairing the leaks. This 
meant the pipework was exposed to the water within the subfloor for far longer than it 
should have been.
LV says the pipework has corroded because it wasnt lagged (wrapped or taped). 
This meant the copper was in direct contact with the concrete. LV says its well 
documented that copper pipes will react with concrete if they arent sufficiently 
lagged. LV suggests that it is the lack of suitable lagging and the corresponding 
corrosion which, on balance, led to the two leaks in the first place.
Ive considered the arguments put forward by both sides, alongside the available 
expert evidence. The photos of the pipework clearly show the pipes embedded in the 
concrete without suitable lagging. And Ive reviewed several articles online which 
support LVs assertion that copper pipework will corrode due to prolonged contact 
with concrete.
I do accept that, due to the delays caused by LV, the pipework will have been 
exposed to the leaking water for longer than it ought to have been. But Im also 
mindful of the fact that the purpose of the copper pipework is to carry water from one 
place to another. So, its expected that copper pipework will, to some degree, 
withstand contact with water as part of its very purpose.
Ultimately, I cant know for certain whether the corrosion was caused by the 
concrete, the water or a combination of both. But in the circumstances, on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that the dominant cause of the 
corrosion was the direct contact with the concrete over time, caused by the lack of 
appropriate lagging.
In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to expect LV to cover the cost of 
replacing the corroded pipework as this isnt something that would be covered by the 
policy.Alternative accommodation
As a result of the claim, Ms R needed alternative accommodation for a period of time. 
Ms R is unhappy with the process and level of support she received around this.
Ive seen evidence that LV, via its agents, offered Ms R a number of options for 
alternative accommodation. They explored available properties in the local area on a 
short-term lease and considered hotels suggested by Ms R. Alternatively, they 
offered the option of a pop-up kitchen at Ms Rs property which would have allowed 
her to remain at home. From what Ive seen, it was Ms R who ultimately chose to 
stay in a hotel.
I appreciate that none of the options were completely ideal for Ms R. But home 
insurance claims will be inconvenient and frustrating by their very nature. So, while it 
was clearly frustrating to have to move out of her home and into alternative 
accommodation, Im satisfied that LV offered suitable alternative options for Ms R to 
choose from. I dont think there was a lack of support around this either.
Disturbance allowance
By disturbance allowance, Im referring to compensation for the financial loss caused 
by additional expenses Ms R incurred as a result of needing to move out of her 
home, or to live in her home without adequate kitchen facilities.
Our service has a well-established approach to disturbance allowance. This is that 
insurers should consider covering any reasonable additional costs their policyholder 
has incurred, and can evidence, as a direct result of the claim. This doesnt include 
costs they would usually incur, only additional costs incurred purely due to the claim.
That said, we appreciate that people may not always remember to retain receipts for 
(for example) additional travel, food or laundry expenses. So, where a policyholder is 
unable to provide specific evidence of the actual costs they incurred, we consider an 
amount of £10 per adult, per day to be fair.
To be clear, this isnt intended to suggest that £10 per day is enough to cover 
someones food, travel and laundry expenses in full. Rather, it takes into account that 
they would always incur some costs for these things. The £10 per day is to cover the 
reasonable additional costs theyd incur due to the circumstances of the claim. For 
example, higher food costs when staying in a hotel as a result of needing to eat 
takeaways/restaurant food rather than cooking for themselves.
In this case, LV offered Ms R £10 per day for her additional food expenses. And it 
offered to consider her laundry costs in addition to this amount, subject to evidence 
of the costs she incurred. I havent seen any persuasive evidence that £10 per day 
was insufficient to cover Ms Rs reasonable additional food costs. So, Im currently 
minded to decide that LVs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Delays, distress and inconvenience
Its not in dispute that the level of service LV provided (via its agents) fell short of 
Ms Rs reasonable expectations. LV accepts it took too long to identify and repair 
both of the leaks and that the overall claim journey was distressing for Ms R. LV has 
offered a total of £800 to compensate Ms R for the impact of these issues.Ive carefully considered the timeline of events between the start of the claim and 
LVs second final response letter. I agree that there were numerous issues with 
locating each of the leaks, which meant several unnecessary site visits needed to 
take place and the claim took longer than it ought to have done to be resolved.
However, Im also mindful that one of the delays in the earlier part of the claim was 
due to Ms R not having a stop-tap repaired so that LV could carry out further works. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold LV responsible for this delay.
Ive thought carefully about the various errors and delays which I think LV is solely 
responsible for. And having done so, I think the £800 already offered is enough to 
fairly compensate Ms R for the impact of those errors and delays. So, Im not 
intending to direct LV to increase this amount.
I thought LVs offer of compensation was a fair way to resolve this complaint. So, I said I was 
intending to direct LV to pay Ms R that amount  if it hadnt done so already. I asked that the 
parties provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider, before I 
reached my final decision.
LV didnt confirm whether it accepted or rejected my provisional findings.
Ms R responded and provided some further comments and evidence. In summary, she said:
LV has lied about the accommodation. She was asked to locate properties or contact 
estate agents herself but no short term lets were available. This forced her into 
staying in a hotel.
LVs agents failed to turn up to visits a number of times and she would sometimes go 
weeks at a time with no communication.
LVs staff were sometimes rude. Their overall handling of the claim has caused her to 
lose out financially and emotionally.
She paid LVs contractor separately to carry out some of the works. They completed 
a two-day job in one day and this resulted in a further leak (or reoccurrence of the 
same leak) and damage. The service around this was poor and resulted in her 
needing to be moved back into a hotel.
LVs plumber uncovered further pipework which was clearly lagged. She says this 
shows that the other pipework would have been too, and that the lagging rotted away 
due to the prolonged exposure to water. Based on this, she said I should reconsider 
my finding on the corroded pipework.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why in more detail below.Poor work by LVs plumber
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ive only looked at events up to LVs final response 
letter of April 2022.
Im very sorry to learn of the events which have taken place since that date. But these will 
need to be dealt with separately to this complaint  and with LV in the first instance.
Ms R can raise a new complaint with LV about the events which have taken place  if she 
hasnt done so already. Should she remain unhappy following LVs final response to those 
issues, she will be able to refer that new complaint to our service, subject to our normal 
rules. 
Number of claims
Neither side provided any detailed responses to my provisional finding on this point. So, my 
conclusion on the number of claims remains the same as in my provisional decision  and 
for the same reasons.
Corroded pipework
Ms R provided several photos of pipework which was uncovered during repairs, and which 
she says have been lagged. I shared these images with LV and asked for its comments. 
To summarise, LV said:
The images do not show that the pipes have been wrapped in an anti-corrosion and 
sealing pipe tape.
The photos show what appears to be a waterproof membrane laid over and under 
the pipes and that some pipes have plastic around them.
The plastic wrapped around the pipes would not become rotten if exposed to water 
as its purpose is as a moisture barrier.
If the plastic had rotted (which it doesnt believe to be the case) it would expect to 
see remnants of the rotted plastic around the pipes, but that isnt the case.
The photos of the corroded pipes clearly show no protective measures were taken 
and this is the reason for the corrosion to those pipes.
Ive carefully considered the comments and photos provided by both sides. Where evidence 
is contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is 
more likely than not, taking into account all the available evidence.
I find LVs arguments about the plastic wrapped around the pipework to be logical and 
persuasive. I dont think its likely that plastic wrapped around a pipe would completely 
dissolve and leave no trace of its existence. Im also unable to see any evidence that the 
corroded pipework was wrapped in the same way as the other pipework.
Taking everything into account, on balance, Im not persuaded that the corroded pipework 
was suitably lagged. And I remain of the view, on balance, that the lack of suitable lagging 
was the primary cause of the corrosion. So, I dont expect LV to cover the cost of replacing 
the corroded pipework.Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance
I carefully considered the available evidence in regard to this point before reaching my 
provisional decision. Im aware that Ms R was asked to try and source accommodation 
herself. But I also note that LV was also seeking to do this for her and that it offered several 
different options to Ms R. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold LV responsible for the lack of available 
short term rental properties, or to conclude that Ms R was forced to choose a hotel because 
of something LV did wrong. I also note that LV were prepared to approve a 12-month let with 
a six-month break clause.
Ultimately, I think LV offered a suitable level of support, with sourcing and funding alternative 
accommodation and a disturbance allowance, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision.
Delays, distress and inconvenience
I appreciate the difficulties Ms R has had to face during the life her claim(s) and complaint. 
There have been avoidable delays and service issues during the period of time Ive 
considered as part of this complaint. But LV has recognised this and made an offer of 
compensation.
I considered all of this prior to reaching my provisional conclusions. And having reconsidered 
everything both sides have said and provided, I remain of the view that £800 is sufficient 
compensation to deliver a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £800 to 
settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Ms R £800 
 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman