DRN-3852271
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) administered her conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
Mrs A entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement with BPF in July 2018 to acquire a 
car. The car cost £23,250 and the agreement was to be paid with 47 payments of around 
£300 followed by a final repayment of around £11,000 if she wanted to keep the car. 
There were some delays in ordering the car. I understand that the supplying dealer needed 
to order a new V5. BPF agreed to push back the first payment to October 2018, and it said it 
would extend the agreement accordingly. BPF also tells us it paid Mrs A £25 in relation to 
the inconvenience. 
Mrs A said things went wrong when she received a letter in May 2022 about the upcoming 
balloon payment as it contained incorrect information. So she complained to BPF. BPF 
issued a final response in June 2022 to say it agreed it had provided incorrect information in 
the May 2022 letter. It suggested Mrs A cancel her direct debit in September 2022 and set 
up standing orders for September and October. It said she could make her balloon payment 
in November, and it would amend any negative impact on her credit file. In recognition of the 
inconvenience caused it offered £75 compensation. BPF told us it then offered another £75 
for giving further incorrect information.
Mrs A wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to our service. In summary, 
Mrs A complained:
BPF had set out different contract lengths in correspondence from 46 to 49 months. 
The letter from May 2022 was incorrect. 
BPF hadnt returned several calls, and it had failed its own policies and procedures. 
BPF gave poor customer service and kept making mistakes. 
The goodwill gestures BPF gave were done incorrectly. 
Shed had to make a lot of calls to different agents. 
Her balance hadnt reduced in line with payments made. 
She was worried about the threat of the balloon payment becoming due at the wrong 
time, and the implications on her credit file of cancelling her direct debit.
About the time, effort and cost shed been put to in bringing the complaint. 
BPF had asked her to pay the wrong amount, including non-existent arrears. 
Mrs A settled the agreement in November 2022. BPF wrote to the Financial Ombudsman to 
acknowledge things had gone wrong. It said it had failed to resolve things in line with what it 
said it was going to do. And that it had misadvised Mrs A. It acknowledged the service fell 
below the standard Mrs A should expect so it initially offered £300 in addition to the previous 
offers, which by that point totalled £150 for the current complaint. 
Following on from this, BPF also said its systems failed to recognise some of Mrs As 
overpayments, so it also agreed to reimburse her with an interest rebate she was owed 
totalling £146.17. It reiterated it had removed the incorrect arrears of £110.95. It said it had 
checked and thered been no negative impact on Mrs As credit file, but it offered another 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience. It also explained that it had already paid Mrs A a 
total of £175 compensation (£150 in relation to her current complaint).
Our investigator put the offer to Mrs A. Mrs A checked her account and said shed not 
received one of the recent compensation payments for £25. So BPF offered to reissue it; pay 
the additional £400 compensation; and reimburse £146.17 of interest. It also highlighted 
there were no negative markers on Mrs As credit file and the agreement had been marked 
as settled. 
Mrs A didnt want to accept the offer because she didnt think it suitably compensated her for 
the time taken to resolve things. She highlighted the costs shed incurred, the loss of 
earnings, and the impact on her personally. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that BPF should pay an extra £100 in 
recognition of more recent misinformation provided to Mrs A. So in total (including the £25 
paid in 2018) our investigator thought BPF should, to the extent it had not done so already, 
pay Mrs A £675 along with the interest rebate. 
BPF agreed. Mrs A didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mrs A and BPF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mrs A has complained about the administration of a regulated conditional sale agreement 
and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I first wanted to point out that Im only considering the events relating to most recent 
complaints, from 2022,  as thats whats been referred to us by Mrs A. Ive referred to what 
happened in 2018 to give some background context. But the complaint relating to what 
happened in 2018 was dealt with under a final response letter from BPF at the time, and 
Mrs A has said the compensation in relation to the 2018 complaint has nothing to do with her 
current dispute. 
Its not in dispute things have gone wrong, and BPF ought to have handled things better. I 
think the issues stemmed from the amendment of the initial payment date after Mrs A signed 
the contract in July 2018 but didnt take possession of the car for a few months. This meant 
her initial payment was pushed back. And it follows that all payments she intended to make 
ought to have been pushed back as well  including the balloon payment. But it looks like 
errors occurred towards the end of the contract when BPF started to communicate with 
Mrs A about her options. 
All parties accept BPF referred to the wrong information in some of its correspondence. I can 
see there were occasions it failed to return Mrs As calls when it had promised. And its also added to the confusion by failing to properly apply overpayments shed made, and by giving 
her contradictory information. So for a few months, Mrs A mustve been very frustrated. She 
had to chase BPF regularly. She was worried about the impact of things going wrong and 
having a balloon payment outstanding at the wrong time. And I think this was made worse 
because of the worry about a mortgage application. 
It looks like BPF has corrected the issue with the payments by removing the incorrect 
arrears, and by offering to reimburse Mrs A with the interest rebate shes due. I think thats 
fair. And from what Ive seen, Mrs As credit file wasnt adversely impacted incorrectly by 
BPF. But Mrs A has requested compensation for the distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused. So Ive considered that too. 
Putting aside the compensation that was paid in 2018, BPF has agreed to pay Mrs A £650 
for the more recent problems. Having considered everything thats happened, I consider this 
to be a broadly fair and reasonable award. It acknowledges the impact of substantial 
distress, worry and upset over a reasonably long time and it has taken into account the 
disruption and need for Mrs A to put in a lot of extra effort to sort out. And I believe its in line 
with the guidance on our website for consumers and businesses on fair compensation. 
Mrs A has mentioned shed like to be paid for loss of earnings suffered while trying to 
resolve things with BPF. When considering the time taken to sort out a mistake we dont 
usually, for example, consider the complainants hourly rate. Ive considered the overall 
impact BPFs mistake has had on Mrs A. And I consider the compensation thats been 
recommended by our investigator to be fair in all the circumstances of the complaint. Im not 
going to direct BPF to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent its not done so already, 
direct Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to:
Pay Mrs A £650 compensation. 
Refund Mrs A £146.17 in relation to the interest rebate shes due.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman