DRN-3257811
The complaint
Mr K complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly avoided his van insurance 
policy and turned down his claim. 
What happened
Mr K took out an insurance policy with a broker through an aggregator site. When the policy 
was due for renewal the broker wrote to Mr K with the details of the renewal. Mr K called the 
broker to ensure he could drive other vehicles and another policy was set up with 
Accredited. 
Mr K was involved in an accident and claimed on his policy. Accredited then inspected his 
van and discovered it had modifications which they werent aware of. Because of the 
modifications Accredited said it wouldnt have offered Mr K cover, and so avoided his policy 
and kept the premium, as they thought the misrepresentation was deliberate. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained, he said he had insured the van through a 
website which said it covered modified vans. He also said when he called his broker he 
hadnt been asked about any modifications. As Mr K wasnt happy with his policy being 
declined and the actions of the broker, he referred his complaints here. 
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didnt recommended it be upheld. She found 
that when Mr K had taken the policy out through the aggregator website, hed agreed to a 
disclaimed which said his van wasnt modified. Then when his policy was renewed the 
documentation also showed his van wasnt modified. She also found that Accredited 
wouldnt have covered Mr K if they had known about the modifications. However she thought 
this was a careless mistake by Mr K and therefore didnt think Accredited had been unfair in 
avoiding his policy, but recommended they refunded the premium charged, plus 8% simple 
interest to compensate him for not having the money. 
Accredited disagreed and said they thought the misrepresentation was deliberate, as Mr K 
had opportunities to correct the error and didnt. But agreed to refund the premiums along 
with 8% simple interest. Mr K didnt agree, he said his broker had made an error by not 
asking him about modifications and not telling Accredited his van was modified. 
As Mr K didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Accredited thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he took out his policy with them and when he took out his previous policy with another 
insurer. They said this is because Mr K didnt disclose that his van was modified. Ive looked 
at the information Mr K gave when he originally took out his policy through the aggregator 
site and also what information he was provided with when his policy renewed. This is 
because the renewal information was based on the information when he took out his 
previous policy.
When Mr K originally took out the first policy, using an aggregator website. He agreed to a 
list of assumptions. One of the assumptions says:
Your vehicle has not been modified in any way from the 
manufacturers standard specification.
At the top of the assumptions it asks for them to be checked and if any arent correct to then 
amend them with the insurer before buying the policy. As Mr K had agreed to the assumption 
his van wasnt modified, when his policy renewed with Accredited it was based on the 
information previously provided. 
I can see the statement of fact which was issued before this policy started says:
Has the vehicle been changed in anyway from the 
manufacturers standard specification?
Next to this question it says No. Mr K agrees his van is modified and therefore this should 
have been marked as Yes. Im therefore satisfied that Mr K has failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out this policy. Ive considered Mr Ks 
points about previously declaring the modifications and that he feels hes been misled by the 
aggregator website and that the broker didnt accurately record about his modifications. In 
particular by not asking about them when he called before taking out this policy. However, in 
this decision I can only comment on the actions of Accredited. If Mr K is unhappy with the 
aggregator site and broker then he would need to raise those issues with them. 
The documentation provided to Accredited said Mr Ks van wasnt modified and theyve 
shown if Mr K had answered this question correctly, they wouldnt have offered him cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Accredited have said Mr Ks misrepresentation was deliberate but have now agreed to 
refund the premiums as if it was careless. I disagree with Accredited that Mr Ks 
misrepresentation was deliberate. Accredited have now agreed to treat Mr Ks 
misrepresentation as if it was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless by agreeing to 
refund his premium along with 8% simple interest per annum, to compensate him for not 
having the money. Given Mr Ks comments on the misrepresentation Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable to treat it as a careless one. As Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Accredited can take in accordance with CIDRA. As Accredited has shown they 
wouldnt have offered cover at all, they are able to avoid his policy and not cover any claims 
but need to return the premium to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to refund Mr Ks premium, along with 8% simple interest per annum, 
calculated from the date of avoidance until the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman