DRN-3707515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that ReAssure Limited hasnt paid them a fair amount of interest on a 
backdated surrender value.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat them here. In 
summary, ReAssure didnt conduct a review on Mr and Mrs Es whole of life policy in 2017. 
Mr and Mrs E complained and said they wouldve surrendered the policy had they received 
the review. ReAssure offered to backdate the surrender value and refund the premiums paid 
since then in addition to £750 compensation. ReAssure didnt add 8% simple interest to the 
redress and Mr and Mrs E have complained about that. ReAssure confirmed that following 
another review, it wouldnt have offered the backdated surrender value and wouldnt add 
interest at 8%.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that it was clear Mr and 
Mrs E were planning to surrender their policy, and it was likely theyd have done so if theyd 
received the 2017 review, so ReAssure ought to pay 8% simple interest on the surrender 
value as well as the refund of premiums as Mr and Mrs E have been deprived of that money.
ReAssure disagreed. It said that it didnt believe Mr and Mrs E wouldve surrendered the 
policy so felt its offer of redress was fair and reasonable and the interest of 8% shouldnt be 
awarded. ReAssure asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint so it has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that ReAssure made an error and didnt conduct the review in 2017, I can 
see it made subsequent errors in the information it gave Mr and Mrs E about the policy, 
including what the review in 2017 ought to have said. The issue I need to decide is what Mr 
and Mrs E were likely to have done had these errors not been made, and therefore what fair 
redress would be.
Mr and Mrs E have submitted details showing they were considering encashing the policy 
when Mr E turned 70. Its not clear that this was the definite course of action they wanted to 
take regardless of the review outcomes, but it is clear it was an option they were 
considering. Mr and Mrs E have said that since the sum assured reduced at the 2009 review 
they had assumed they may have to surrender it before it became too expensive. And I can 
see Mr and Mrs E wrote to ReAssure, and chased this up, asking for their review and policy 
details. This shows to me that Mr and Mrs E were considering the best option for them in 
regards to what to do with the policy and I think its likely theyd have considered 
surrendering the policy in 2017 to be their best option.
ReAssure has said that the policy wouldve passed the review in 2017, so dont think Mr 
and Mrs E wouldve surrendered it. But, its clear from the communications that Mr and Mrs 
E understood how this policy worked, and if theyd been told the correct surrender value in 
2017, alongside the underlying units and cost of cover, I think its likely theyd have 
surrendered it. I do note that in 2018, Mr E was 70 and didnt ask to surrender it, but it 
appears they hadnt been sufficiently informed of the policy details at this point  I can see 
Mr and Mrs E were chasing correct information through to 2021, when ReAssure offered to 
pay them the backdated surrender value from 2017 and refund their premiums from that 
point. And in any event, Mr and Mrs E were clearly weighing up their options and given their 
experience and detailed submissions to this service, Im persuaded theyd have surrendered 
the policy had they received correct information in 2017.
As I think its likely Mr and Mrs E wouldve surrendered the policy in 2017 had they been 
given the information they ought to have been, it follows that the surrender value and refund 
of premiums should have 8% simple interest added in line with our well established 
approach for deprivation of funds.
ReAssure has offered Mr and Mrs E a total of £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them by providing incorrect information and not carrying out the 
contractual reviews on their policy. Taking account of the amount of chasing Mr and Mrs E 
have done, and the impact of the errors, I dont think it would be fair for ReAssure to pay 
anything more than this amount.
Putting things right
To clarify, I think its likely Mr and Mrs E wouldve surrendered their policy in 2017 had the 
review been conducted and the correct information given to them. I can see that ReAssure 
has paid Mr and Mrs E the surrender value as well as a refund of premiums from the date 
the policy shouldve been surrendered. ReAssure Limited must also do the following:
- To the surrender value - add 8% simple interest per annum from the date the policy 
ought to have been surrendered (31 October 2017) to the date the surrender value 
was paid.
- To the refund of premiums  add 8% simple interest per annum to each premium 
from the date it was paid to the date of the refund.
- If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr and Mrs E a total of £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
If ReAssure Limited has already paid some interest on the surrender value and refund of 
premiums, this redress is limited to the difference in value between the above and what 
ReAssure has already paid.
If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs E how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay Mr and 
Mrs E redress in line with the instructions set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman