DRN-2940967
The complaint
Mr L complains that he has been overcharged for his buildings insurance policy by U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as National Insurance and Guarantee Corporation.
What happened
Mr L had a property which he insured with UKI for many years. In 1999 he noticed some 
cracks which he thought were due to subsidence. He made a claim which was accepted and 
some repairs were carried out. When he then renewed the policy he asked whether it would 
be based on normal rates. UKI confirmed it would and said this would apply to anyone who 
later bought the house from him.
Mr L continued to renew the policy each year after that. Shortly before the renewal in 2020, 
his son got a quote for the policy as he was now the person receiving the rental income from 
it. UKI issued a new policy to Mr Ls son. Mr L then said he was unhappy because the price 
quoted to his son was a lot lower than the amount he had been paying. He said UKI had 
agreed to offer renewal based on normal rates, which had implied no additional loading 
would be applied due to the subsidence claim. And he said the renewal cost should have 
been  the same for him as the quote given to his son, because neither quote included any 
previous subsidence claims. 
UKI said that it hadnt added anything extra to his premium and cover had been given 
alongside the premium at normal rates; there was no additional premium or loading. It said 
this meant the premium was at the normal rates. 
UKI also said it couldnt go into detail about the quote for his son, but his son had said there 
had been no previous subsidence claims, which wasnt correct.
When Mr L then referred the complaint to this service our investigator said she was satisfied 
the premium had been calculated correctly, and any other customer would have been 
charged in the same way. She thought it was reasonable for UKI to have considered that 
normal rates means how it would usually calculate the price for any customer, taking into 
account any previous claims. And a previous subsidence claim, or including subsidence 
cover, would result in a higher premium.
Mr L remains unhappy and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He makes a number of 
points, including: 
what UKI meant by normal charging was ambiguous;
he wrote to UKI about normal rates and the correspondence indicated this meant 
the subsidence claim would be ignored;
if UKI considered that normal rates would take into account the claim, it should have 
clarified this;
his son didnt know about the previous claim, which is why he didnt mention it, but in 
any event that claim should not have made any difference  the premium should 
have been based on normal rates without taking into account the subsidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are not a regulator and its not for me to tell an insurer what risks they wish to take on or 
how much to charge for cover. UKI can decide what cover it wishes to offer, what premiums 
to charge and how they are calculated. But I would expect insurers to treat their customers 
fairly when they do this. So I can consider whether the premium has been applied to its 
customers consistently.
Insurers consider many different factors when deciding what to charge, but this will typically 
include weighing up the risk of having to pay claims. Different insurers will take into account 
different factors when deciding this. UKI has explained how it calculated the premium for 
Mr L and Im satisfied his premium has been priced correctly, in the same way would be for 
any other customer. UKI hasnt added any additional or manual loading to the calculation; its 
based on the normal calculation for someone in Mr Ls situation. And if someone has had a 
claim, that is one of the factors that would be considered.
During the correspondence in 2000, Mr L asked UKI to confirm that he would be offered 
renewal terms at the normal rates both to me and  to a purchaser of the property. UKI 
confirmed that it would be in a position to offer renewal terms at normal rates. This would 
also apply all things being equal to any purchaser of the property. Mr L says he took this to 
mean the subsidence claim wouldnt be taken into account but I dont think thats the case. 
In my view, UKI was simply confirming that he would be offered the normal rates; in other 
words, his premium would be calculated in the normal way. I think its reasonable for UKI to 
consider that normal rates means how they would usually price the policy for any other 
customer. So if the normal rates take into account any past claims, then they would be taken 
into account for him in exactly the same way as they would for anyone else.
Mr L has referred to the quote provided to his son. UKI has explained that his son didnt ask 
for subsidence cover and thats why the initial quote given to him was lower. As Ive 
explained, any premium will take into account the risk being covered. Subsidence claims 
tend to be more complex and expensive so its reasonable that including subsidence cover 
would result in a higher premium.
Mr L has also said that in calculating his premiums UKI ignored the fact he asked them in 
2000 that if there were further subsidence problems, the cost of remedial work would be 
dealt with under the present claim without any further excess, and UKI has now said it 
wouldnt agree to this. If there was further subsidence damage at a later date its reasonable 
for UKI to look into this as a separate claim, unless there was expert evidence to suggest it 
was still part of an existing issue. Dealing with a subsidence claim doesnt ordinarily mean 
the insurer is responsible for preventing any subsidence from happening again in the future. 
If there was further subsidence some years later, it would be reasonable for UKI to assess 
that as a new claim. 
Finally, Mr L has pointed out that UKI gave a partial refund for his final renewal. But I dont 
think that means it had accepted he was overcharged. UKI has explained that it agreed this 
reduction as a goodwill gesture following his complaint. The premium calculation shows no 
manual loading was applied and the initial premium was correct. Im satisfied the refund was 
given as a gesture of goodwill, not because he had been overcharged for the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman