DRN-2836913
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that Santander rejected a CHAPS that delayed a significant 
amount of funds reaching their account.
For ease of reading I will refer to Mr P only in my decision.
What happened
In April 2020, following the sale of a property, Mr P looked to transfer the funds across 
several bank accounts. He contacted his bank and arranged for the transfer of £284,997 to 
another of his accounts. This was his and his wifes joint account with another bank, 
Santander.
Mr P said he was expecting the payment to credit the account with Santander by close of 
business. But the payment wasnt showing as having credited to the account. He called 
Santander and was told Santander wouldnt reject the payment and he needed to check with 
the sending bank. Mr P was also told that the payment would have been sent by the 
Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS). Mr P disputed this as he said it had 
been sent by Faster Payment as hed have had to pay a £17 fee for sending by CHAPS, 
which on principle he wouldnt do.
Mr P and the sending bank said the transfer should have been accepted. To check what had 
happened they made successful test transfers of £1 and £10,000 but transfers of £40,000 
and £49,999 were rejected by Santander. Mr P complained to Santander.
Santander said the payment had been rejected as the account identifiers were incorrect. And 
for a CHAPS payment to be successful the sort code, account number and the names of the 
account holders had to be provided. They said the beneficiary details given by the sending 
bank didnt fully reflect the account holders names. Santander said as it was the sending 
bank who made the payment by CHAPS, and it was they or the sender who completed the 
account details they couldnt be held responsible for the payment being rejected.
Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the payment was sent as a CHAPS transfer, and this had been decided 
by the sending bank and not Santander. He said Santander had acted fairly and reasonably 
in rejecting the transfer.
Mr P didnt agree as hed used the same account identifiers on previous payments without 
any problems. And the delay for such a high value transfer had caused him considerable 
upset. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise the frustration and annoyance Mr P undoubtedly experienced when the transfer 
of funds did not materialise as expected. Mr P had frequently used the Faster Payment 
process to transfer funds and had used the same account identifiers for this without any 
problems.
But there are usually limits to how much can be sent using the Faster Payment transfer 
process. And where the amount being sent is of a high value such as the transfer Mr P 
wanted to make, and is above the sending banks Faster Payment limit, the usual option is to 
send it by CHAPS. And this is what has happened here. CHAPS is an electronic interbank 
transfer system for sending same-day value payments from bank to bank. And are usually 
guaranteed for requests made by 2pm (varies between different financial businesses) on 
that day. Unlike Faster Payments there is usually a fee for a CHAPS payment. The cost will 
vary depending on the sender bank. 
I know Mr P said he wouldnt pay the CHAPS fee of £17 on principle and so thought the 
payment had been sent by Faster Payment, but this wasnt the case. And the sending bank 
had sent the payment by CHAPS. 
At the beginning of August 2019, the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) issued a specific 
direction to the UKs six largest banking groups to fully implement Confirmation of Payee 
by 31 March 2020. This deadline was extended due to the pandemic to 30 June 2020.
Confirmation of Payee is a way of checking account details to give greater assurance that 
payments are being sent to the intended recipient, helping avoid misdirected payments 
being sent to the wrong account as well as helping to prevent fraud and scams.
For a CHAPS payment to be successfully received, the sender will need to provide the sort 
code, account number and the full name(s) as they appear on the beneficiary account.
Mr Ps CHAPS payment was rejected by Santander because the sending bank or the sender 
provided the incorrect account name, and this wasnt as a result of anything Santander did 
or did not do. I can understand Mr Ps frustration as the details used gave his and his wifes 
surname which he feels should have been enough to identify the account. But for a CHAPS 
payment to be accepted it must reflect the account name details, and not part of the account 
name. So, I cant say Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting the CHAPS 
payment.
Mr P said he used the same details for the test payments, and these had been accepted by 
Santander. But the test payments were made using the Faster Payment process and had 
been used previously for making similar Faster Payments. And payments such as those 
made by Mr P previously as they were to existing recipients might not have been checked 
using Confirmation of Payee - although individual account providers may, in time, begin to 
check the details of existing recipients with Confirmation of Payee. But as this was, from 
what I can see, the first transfer by CHAPS it was subject to being checked under 
Confirmation of Payee.
I can see Santander in their initial response provided incorrect information to Mr P about the 
mis-stated name upon the transfer. But this didnt change the position Mr P was in as his 
transfer wouldnt be accepted unless the account name details were given fully.And when Mr P first called to check about the transfer, he was told that Santander wouldnt 
stop money coming in. Which has been shown wasnt correct as it was Santander that 
rejected the CHAPS payment. But I agree with our investigator that it was a general 
comment made without knowing the full details of the transfer. And Mr P was correctly 
directed back to the sending bank to make further checks.
I know Mr P will be disappointed by my decision, but I think Santander were applying the 
right measures to safeguard the payment. And I dont think they acted unreasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman