DRN-4210468
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) refused to accept 
payment for his car insurance policy on a monthly basis, increased his renewal premium and 
provided poor service.
 
What happened
Mr D entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Admiral in March 2021 which gave him the 
facility to pay for his car insurance premium in 12 monthly payments. 
Mr D missed a number of payments during 2021. He said that in both 2020 and 2021 he told 
Admiral that his income had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic (Covid-19), and hed 
asked if he could pay two payments in one month on a number of occasions. Mr D said 
Admiral told him he could do this by ensuring there was no money in his account when his 
payment was due, and then making an increased payment the next month. 
Admiral said Mr D contacted them in May 2021 to pay a missed payment, but they told him 
theyd already put through a second request for the payment, and so they couldnt take a 
manual one at that time. They said they told Mr D to wait for the second request to be 
rejected, and then hed be able to make a manual payment. A manual payment was made 
later the same month. 
Admiral said Mr D contacted them in October 2021 to ask for a payment to be delayed. They 
said they told him they couldnt delay the payment as the system had already tried to collect 
it, but they could put a hold on the payment once it had been rejected to allow Mr D time to 
make the payment. 
In November 2021 Admiral put a temporary suspension on Mr Ds account to allow him to 
pay October and November 2021s payments in one payment, and they removed the late 
payment fee from Mr Ds account. 
In early 2022 Admiral sent Mr D a quote to renew his policy, and Mr D complained to Admiral 
in March 2022 when they said hed need to pay his premium in one payment, and they 
couldnt offer him the option to pay monthly. 
Mr D also complained that Admiral tried to take the full payment whilst they were 
investigating his complaint, and he didnt receive a call when one had been promised. 
Admiral sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in April 2022. They apologised for 
attempting to take a payment whilst they were investigating and not calling Mr D when they 
said they would. They paid Mr D £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. They said they couldnt provide specific reasons for not offering direct debit 
payments to Mr D, but it was due to information gathered from internal and external sources. 
Admiral said there was no evidence theyd told Mr D to miss payments, but hed asked for a 
delay to payments that hadnt been possible a number of times. 
Mr Ds policy was cancelled in May 2022 when no payment was received following renewal 
of the policy. Admiral then provided a quote for a new policy, but the price for this was 
higher. Mr D complained to Admiral that hed been offered a lower premium price that should 
be honoured. Admiral responded to Mr D to say they had no record of the lower premium 
price, and Mr D was under no obligation to accept the quote that had been offered. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said 
Admiral had offered him a policy at around £570 but were now asking him to pay nearly 
£800. He wanted the original quote to be reinstated, and to be able to pay his premium in 
instalments. 
Our investigator gave his view that it was reasonable for Admiral to refuse a monthly 
payment option, that Mr D had been treated fairly, there was no evidence of the £570 quote 
Mr D said hed received, and Admiral had fairly compensated Mr D for the service hed 
received. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed been refused monthly payments because of payment 
arrangements that hed made in 2020 and 2021, so they shouldnt have a bearing on future 
policy decisions. Mr D maintained that he was given a lower quote over the phone. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was supplied with a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Mr D would like Admiral to allow him to pay his car insurance premium on a monthly basis. 
This would mean extending a new fixed sum loan agreement to him. Its not my role to tell 
Admiral or any credit provider whom they must conduct business with, and if they must 
continue to provide loan facilities. This is a commercial decision for Admiral to make. What I 
have considered is whether Admiral have treated Mr D fairly. 
Admiral have said they dont need to provide a reason for refusing to finance Mr Ds 
insurance premium, but they have said their decision was a result of information gathered 
from internal and external sources. 
Mr D said he was told by Admiral to miss some of his payments, he wasnt told this might 
affect his renewal. He believes this is now being held against him as Admiral arent allowing 
him to pay monthly because of his payment history. 
Ive seen evidence from Mr D that he made increased payments on some months in 2020, 
but I havent seen any evidence of a payment agreement entered to allow him to do this. I 
note that Admiral accepted Mr Ds renewal and payment by monthly instalments in 2021, so 
Im satisfied that any arrangement he made with Admiral in 2020 didnt affect his renewal or 
his payment options in March 2021. 
I can see that Mr D missed a number of payments during 2021, and Admiral sent him a 
number of default notices. These notices gave Mr D information about missed payments, 
how and when he needed to make them, what might happen if he didnt, and provided 
information about what to do if he was affected by Covid-19. I havent seen any evidence of a payment arrangement entered by Mr D and Admiral in 2021, or that he asked for any of 
the available options under the Covid-19 guidance. 
So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to consider Mr Ds payment history in the 
last 12 months when deciding if they would offer him another fixed sum loan agreement in 
March 2022.  
Admiral suspended the payments on Mr Ds account whilst he discussed his renewal 
premium, and Im satisfied that Mr D had the opportunity to discuss his circumstances and 
come to an agreement with Admiral prior to the cancellation of his policy in May 2022. So, 
Im satisfied that Admiral treated him fairly, and Im not asking them to reinstate the option 
for Mr D to pay his premiums monthly. 
Mr D has asked Admiral to honour a renewal premium he said he was quoted on the phone 
of around £570. Admiral said they had no record of this quotation. 
I havent seen any evidence that Admiral changed Mr Ds renewal premium between the 
quotation they sent him in early 2022, and the amount they were asking him to pay for the 
policy in discussions between March and May 2022. So, Im satisfied that the premium given 
to Mr D of £628.92 was consistent, and Mr D wasnt treated unfairly by Admiral. 
Mr D has complained about the service he received from Admiral. Admiral have apologised 
for trying to collect payments whilst they investigated his complaint, and for a call that Mr D 
didnt receive. They have paid him £50 compensation. 
Mr D experienced confusion and inconvenience when a payment that he didnt expect was 
requested, and inconvenience when he didnt receive a call he was promised. Overall, Im 
satisfied that £50 fairly compensates Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused, so Im 
not asking Admiral to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman