DRN-2406007
The complaint
Mrs G complained that she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in November 1998 when she applied for a credit card. Nationwide 
said that Mrs G filled in an application form for the card and PPI, and that she wasnt advised 
to take the cover. Mrs G said that she picked up the form from a branch of Nationwide and 
was told by a member of staff that it was better to have PPI. Mrs G said she thought she 
wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy.
The policy cost 60p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs G had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work for up to 12 months. It also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs G wasnt eligible for the PPI so wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim. So she upheld the complaint. Nationwide didnt agree and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide sent us a copy of Mrs Gs credit card application form. This shows that a box 
was ticked on the form to say that Mrs G wanted PPI, although she didnt have to sign 
separately for it. This section of the form also shows Mrs Gs employment status  theres a 
tick in the box marked employed part-time  and her gross income. The name of her 
employer shown on the form is a local authority catering service. 
Mrs G told us that that at the time of the sale she was working part-time for 15 hours per 
week on a term-time contract, doing kitchen work for school lunches. This means that she 
wouldnt have been eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been able to make a claim. I 
say this because one of the eligibility conditions set out in the policy was that Mrs G should 
be in Employment, with Employment being defined as follows:
Employment: means to be in paid work for an average of 16 hours or more each week 
either:
a) as a permanent member of Your employer's staff on an open-ended contract, or
b) as a member of Your employer's staff on a fixed term contract, or
c) as a self-employed person.
Nationwide argued that when Mrs G ticked the box to say she wanted the PPI, the wording 
alongside the box also stated that she was confirming her eligibility for the policy (although 
the conditions were not stated on the form and instead it referred to a separate brochure). 
Nationwide also referred to the paperwork Mrs G filled in when submitting the complaint, 
where she ticked a box to indicate her employment status as employed when there was a 
separate box she couldve ticked to say that she was working for less than 16 hours per 
week. Nationwide further said that the wage payments showing on Mrs Gs bank statements 
at the relevant time suggested she was working for 16 or more hours each week, although 
this point seems to be based on a number of assumptions. 
Unfortunately Mrs G didnt have evidence to confirm her employment contract. However, as 
her employer is still operating, we asked whether it had records of her employment contract 
at the time of the sale. It did have these records and has confirmed to us that Mrs G was 
employed on a term-time only contract, working 15 hours per week. 
Having received those details from Mrs Gs employer, Im satisfied Mrs G did not meet the 
eligibility conditions for the policy and therefore would not have been able to benefit from it. 
This means Mrs G has lost out, so Nationwide needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand the account is still running. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been 
cancelled already and:
A. Nationwide should find out how much Mrs G would owe on her credit card if the 
policy hadnt been added to it. 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Nationwide should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owes and what 
she would have owed. 
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also deduct any amounts it 
has already paid in relation to commission and profit share.
B. If - when Nationwide works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without 
PPI  Mrs G paid more than enough to clear her balance, Nationwide should also 
pay simple interest on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when Mrs G wouldve owed Nationwide something on her credit card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. Nationwide should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Nationwide 
Building Society should pay her the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman