DRN-1615866
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited wrongly 
charged him an excess when he claimed under his pet policy.
What happened
Mr H has a life time policy for his dog with Red Sands which renews every year on 17 
January. 
Mr Hs dog had been diagnosed with an ongoing condition the previous year which Red 
Sands ultimately accepted and paid his claim deducting the £99 excess. His dog requires 
ongoing medication and Mr H claimed for this in September 2018 which Red Sands paid.
Before the renewal in January 2019, Mr H called Read Sands to ask why his premium had 
increased so much and to make sure his dogs ongoing condition and medication would still 
be covered. There was some confusion over his dogs age which is not the subject of this 
complaint so I wont be dealing with that. However Red Sands confirmed that as he had a 
life time policy his dogs ongoing condition would be covered. So Mr H agreed to renew his 
policy.
In May 2019, he made another claim for treatment for his dogs ongoing condition and repeat 
medication. The treatment took place between 29 January and 2 May 2019. Red Sands 
accepted the claim but deducted a £99 policy excess. Mr H was of the view the excess was 
only payable per condition and he had already paid the excess for his dogs condition the 
previous year. 
Red Sands said its policy explained that an excess was payable for the same condition 
again if the treatment fell into the following year. Mr H complained that he wasnt told this 
when he called up to query the position in January 2019. He also said had been told of this 
he might not have considered renewing it, therefore he thought it was mis-sold. However 
Red Sands said its policy terms were clear so it wouldnt uphold his complaint.
Dissatisfied Mr H brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had 
done anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. My role and that of 
this service is to see if Red Sands did anything wrong having regard to the terms and the 
conditions of the policy. 
As the investigator explained the policy documents do clearly explain that a policy excess is 
applicable for ongoing conditions should the treatment overlap the next policy year. The 
documents mention this several times. The policy does not say anywhere that the excess is 
only payable once per condition as Mr H believed. Red Sands clearly detailed where its 
explained in the policy document, in its final response letter to Mr H so I wont repeat it here. 
As Mr H was renewing this policy, I think he had had plenty of opportunity to familiarise 
himself with the policy terms. Therefore I consider Red Sands did nothing wrong in applying 
the excess for the ongoing treatment costs of his dogs medical condition the next policy 
year. I also consider how Red Sands expressed this in the policy documents is both clear 
and repeated several times throughout all the documents. Therefore I consider it properly 
and clearly brought its excess payment terms to Mr Hs attention.
 
Mr H believed this should have been mentioned by Red Sands in the phone call he had with 
it before he took the decision to renew his policy. Ive listened to that call recording carefully 
and there is no mention of the policy excess by either Mr H or the Red Sands representative. 
And since Mr H was renewing his policy I would have considered Mr H was familiar with the 
policys provisions to ask any questions he was concerned about. The questions he did ask 
was the reason for the premium increase, which then generated a conversation about his 
dogs age and also to clarify that his dogs ongoing medical conditions and medication would 
be covered, which was clearly confirmed.
Mr Hs point is that his dogs ongoing medication costs around £100 per year and now Red 
Sands is going to deduct the £99 excess each year which in effect from Mr Hs point doesnt 
cover the cost of his dogs ongoing medication. Hes now found a cheaper way to buy the 
medication than directly through his vet also. So he believes Red Sands should have 
explained this to him in the call.
But he didnt talk about the excess at all. Theres nothing in the call to indicate to the Red 
Sands representative that Mr H didnt understand how the excess was to be applied or that 
he didnt understand the policy conditions concerning the excess.  He merely wanted 
confirmation that his dogs ongoing medication and treatment was covered, which was 
confirmed. Most of the conversation concerns his dogs age issues and how that impacted 
the premium level due to the fact Mr Hs main point was about how much his premium had 
increased. That was the thrust of his queries, and there was no mention of the excess. 
The sale of pet policies is whats called unadvised which means Red Sands is under no 
duty to give advice about the suitability of its product to the consumer. This was also clearly 
detailed in the telephone recording by the pre-recorded information, as Mr H was waiting to 
be put through to the representative, which was also recorded in the telephone recording. 
The regulations concerning such unadvised sales is that the insurer must clearly detail all 
the policy conditions in the documents. Ive already found Red Sands did this properly and 
coherently in all its policy documents. So then the burden passes to Mr H to read his policy 
documents and obviously raise issues if he felt something was unclear. And as he didnt 
mention the excess in the telephone call with Red Sands, so then I consider there was 
nothing to indicate to the representative that he had unfortunately appeared to have 
misunderstood it.
So I consider that Red Sands hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
For these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman