DRN-2890325
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that TSB Bank plc was unhelpful to them during a period of 
financial difficulties and family illness. They wanted TSB to allow them to convert the 
repayment mortgage to interest only for a period, but this was refused by the bank.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a repayment mortgage with TSB. In 2020 they began to have difficulties 
repaying their mortgage during the pandemic and as a result of a family illness. They initially 
got assistance of a six-month payment deferral period from May to October 2020. As their 
financial situation hadnt improved, they looked for further assistance from TSB. In late 2020, 
Mr and Mrs G asked TSB to put the mortgage on interest only for three to six months. Mr 
and Mrs G experienced a delay in getting a response from TSB. Whereas TSB was 
prepared to look at a nil or reduced payment plan, it wasnt agreeable to putting the 
mortgage on an interest only footing. It says that such a mortgage would be unaffordable 
given Mr and Mrs G present circumstances.
The payment deferral period ended in October 2020 and Mr and Mrs G made the contractual 
monthly payments between November and January 2021and then made payments of 
£913.23 under a reduced payment plan rather than the contractual monthly payments 
(CMP) of £1,217.64.
In the period after the end of the payment deferral period Mr and Mrs G had difficulty 
contacting TSB. They wanted the mortgage to go on interest only short term which in their 
view wouldnt affect their credit rating. TSB said that it wouldnt agree a switch to interest 
only without a valid repayment vehicle unless that was a definite change in circumstances 
expected. After considering an income/expenditure account, it considered an interest only 
switch would be unaffordable and wouldnt agree to it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as given Mr and Mrs 
Gs income, it wasnt unreasonable to refuse the application to transfer to interest only. Mr 
and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that no account was taken of the stress that they 
were under because of losing their jobs and their sons illness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the problems Mr and Mrs G have encountered in the last year 
because of losing their jobs and their sons illness and Mrs Gs mothers illness. I note that 
during this period Mr and Mrs G re-arranged their lives understandably around caring for 
their relatives and their income has substantially fallen. We would expect TSB to be 
sympathetic to that situation. When looking at this complaint I have to decide whether TSB 
has done anything wrong. 
I see there was an initial difficulty with TSB. Its clear that in October that Mr and Mrs G were 
anxious to discuss the immediate future and their situation but got little response from TSB. 
Im aware that at that time lenders were moving from providing support for those in financial 
difficulties by way of payment deferral periods to what is termed tailored support which 
involves looking at cases individually. Given the volume of cases being processed at that 
time and the changed working arrangements during the pandemic I believe that some delay 
in responding to borrowers requests for further support was not unreasonable.
I note that in October TSB offered a reduced payment arrangement for the following two 
months. Mr and Mrs G wanted a short-term interest only arrangement, but TSB refused that 
because there wasnt the income to support it. In the next period I see that Mr and Mrs G 
were waiting on a response from the Tailored Support part of TSB and in early December 
were told that Lloyds could look at a nil repayment arrangement or a reduced payment 
arrangement. But Mr and Mrs G didnt want this if it impacted on their credit file. I see in that 
call Mrs G was quoted a reduced payment arrangement of £820 per month if she wanted to 
avoid the impact of arrears on her credit file. Mr and Mrs G wanted an interest only 
arrangement and this was again refused because of a lack of affordability as their income 
had deteriorated from the previous assessment. I see the application was appealed 
internally but the panel decided that it wouldnt review without what it calls a guaranteed 
change in circumstances that would make the payments affordable after the interest only 
period came to an end. Again, Lloyds suggested it could look at a reduced payment 
arrangement as a temporary measure to support Mr and Mrs G.
I understand that In February Mr and Mrs G agreed a reduced payment arrangement of 
£913.23 until April 2021 which meant that during that period the arrears didnt exceed one 
month. TSBs difficulty in acceding to Mr and Mrs Gs request is that dealing with any 
borrower in financial difficulties, it is expected to assess any proposal to see if the borrower 
can afford it and refuse it if its likely to put the borrower in a worse position. Because of their 
lack of income and no definite prospects of an increase,TSB came to the conclusion that an 
interest-only short-term mortgage was unaffordable and its difficult to argue with that on their 
income at the time. It offered to look at short term measures such as a nil or reduced 
payment and that is how we would expect TSB to assist when the future prospects are 
uncertain. So, I cant say that TSB acted unreasonably in how it dealt with Mr and Mrs G in 
their financial difficulties.
It seems that an arrangement was eventually reached which seems to be based on Mr and 
Mrs Gs wish to avoid an arrears marker - until after April anyway - falling on their credit file. I 
can see that one of Mr and Mrs Gs priority throughout was to protect their credit file. That is 
difficult to do as a credit file records difficulty in making payments and Mr and Mrs G had that 
difficulty. Im not convinced that an interest only mortgage would have benefited them in that 
respect. My understanding is that had such been agreed, as Mr and Mrs G werent making 
their CMPs, it would have been recorded as an arrangement on their credit file and 
eventually as the payments were below the CMPs, as an arrears, which was what Mr and 
Mrs G were trying to avoid.
In any case for the reasons set out above, I cant fairly say that TSB has done anything 
wrong and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman