DRN-1184189
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) misled him when it said 
hed been approved for a new credit card product.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card with Barclaycard. On 11 April 2019 Mr H called Barclaycard and 
asked to change his credit card to a cashback product. Mr H says he was told his account 
would be reviewed and hed receive confirmation of the change on 15 April 2019.
Mr H didnt receive confirmation or a new card by that date and complained. Mr H says 
Barclaycard then sent him a number of letters that didnt properly explain why he didnt 
receive the new credit card he was expecting. 
Barclaycard issued its final response on 27 June 2019 and paid Mr H £50 in recognition of 
the poor customer service he received. Barclaycard also confirmed Mr H wasnt eligible for 
the Platinum Cashback account.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt 
with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H didnt accept so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Barclaycards advisor. When Mr H explained that 
he wanted to upgrade to the Platinum Cashback account the advisor said his credit card 
would be reviewed. The advisor agreed to arrange for someone to contact Mr H to confirm 
the outcome of the review, but there was no mention of a card being issued during this call.
That being said, I agree that the advisor made it sound like Mr H had been approved for the 
cashback credit card on 11 April 2019. But Barclaycard has confirmed that when it reviewed 
Mr Hs account it found he didnt qualify for that product. I understand why Mr H feels 
Barclaycard should arrange the product transfer for him. But our approach to resolving a 
complaint is to try and put the customer back into the position they would have been in if no 
error had been made. We wouldnt expect a business to be bound by a genuine mistake.
In this case, the error was that Barclaycards advisor made it sound as if Mr H had been 
approved for a new credit card when he hadnt. Ive looked at the evidence from Barclaycard 
and Im satisfied Mr H didnt qualify for the Platinum Cashback credit card  so I cant tell 
Barclaycard to approve his request now. 
But I do agree that Mr H was misled and that the service provided by Barclaycard should 
have been better. In its final response, Barclaycard acknowledged that Mr H was given 
misleading information and apologised. Barclaycard also paid Mr H £50. Whilst I agree the service provided was poor, the situation was resolved relatively quickly 
when Barclaycard explained Mr H didnt qualify for the product he discussed on 11 April 
2019. I think the £50 Barclaycard has paid fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on 
Mr H so Im not telling it to increase its offer. Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with Mr 
Hs complaint fairly so Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman