DRN-2709240
The complaint
Ms F complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined her travel insurance claim and 
placed a fraud indicator on her record. My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Ms F had travel insurance through her bank account. The insurer was UKI.
In December 2018 Ms F make a claim on her policy. She told UKI that in November 2018 
her laptop, mobile phones and cash had been stolen from her bag while she was at a 
relatives home abroad. Her husband reported the theft to the police.
Ms F sent UKI the police report and photo of the laptop she said had been stolen in support 
of her claim. In a call on 1 March 2019 Ms F told UKI the photo she provided was of the 
stolen laptop and she hadnt replaced the laptop.
In a call on 21 March 2019 UKI asked Ms F detailed questions about her claim. She again 
told UKI the photo she sent was of the stolen laptop, taken either in June or November 2018, 
and shed taken the photo to show the laptop to her daughter. UKI told Ms F it had concerns 
about the photo and explained that metadata records the date and time when photos were 
taken. Ms F then said the photo wasnt of the stolen laptop but of a replacement laptop 
bought before Christmas 2018 and shed taken the photo in January 2019.
UKI declined the claim. It told Ms F it believed a laptop hadnt been stolen and she didnt 
have a genuine loss. UKI referred Ms F to the fraud terms in her policy and cancelled her 
policy.
Ms F complained to us. She told us the stolen laptop was bought for her husband by the 
university where he holds a position. The university is in the same country where the theft 
was reported. Ms F said it would be difficult and time-consuming to get the receipt of the 
stolen laptop from the university so instead she sent a photo of the replacement laptop which 
was the same make. Ms F told us she made a mistake not to tell UKI the true situation 
earlier. She complains that when UKI told her it knew shed given false information it should 
have given her more time to get evidence to support her claim.
Ms F understands that a fraud indicator has been placed on her record as she has difficulty 
in getting financial products. She wants UKI to possibly pay the claim but most importantly to 
remove the fraud indicator.
Ultimately our investigator said the false information Ms F gave UKI didnt impact on the 
validity of Ms Fs claim so the claim shouldnt be seen as fraudulent. She recommended that 
UKI pay the claim for the laptop if Ms F could provide confirmation from the university that 
her husband had to repay the cost of the laptop and that UKI should assess the claim for 
cash. Our investigator also said UKI should remove the fraud indicator from Ms Fs record.
UKI didnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. It doesnt accept the laptop was 
stolen during the theft. It said it had given Ms F lots of opportunity to tell it the true situation. 
UKI also said that as the university bought the alleged stolen laptop and replaced the laptop 
at no cost to Ms F before she made the claim she had no loss.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined the claim and put a fraud 
indicator on Ms Fs record, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Ms F says shes no longer asking for the claim to be paid and just wants the fraud indicator 
removed from her records. But I need to consider whether Ms F had a valid claim as part of 
my decision to decide whether UKI reasonably placed a fraud indicator on Ms Fs record.
UKI has referred Ms F to the fraud provisions in the policy which says:
You must be honest and truthful in your dealings with us at all times.
If you, any insured person or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or 
knowingly makes a false claim, we have the right to refuse claims and retain any 
premium paid. We may recover from you any costs we have incurred, including the 
costs of investigating the claim.
We will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. We will 
also not deal with any claims following discovery of this behaviour regardless of when 
the claims occurred.
In addition, we have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and 
share details of this behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We 
may also involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal 
proceedings.
UKI told Ms F it believed shed given it information she knew was untrue or misleading, shed 
done so dishonestly and with the intention of making a financial gain for herself or another 
party. That means UKI believes Ms F made a fraudulent claim.
Ms F accepts she gave untrue information to UK. She says she did so to make the claim 
process go more smoothly as she didnt have a receipt for the laptop that was stolen.
Ive listened to the 21 March 2019 call between Ms F and UKI where the circumstances of 
her claim were discussed in detail. Ms F told UKI she didnt have a receipt for the stolen 
laptop. UKI asked Ms F very clear questions about whether the photo shed sent in support 
of the claim was the stolen laptop and Ms F replied yes. Ms F gave UKI detailed false 
information about why shed taken the photo. UKI repeated the information Ms F had given 
and she confirmed the information was correct.
When UKI told Ms F it had concerns about the photo, and asked her if she knew why, Ms F 
didnt use that chance to tell UKI she had given it false information. It was only after UKI told 
Ms F that the metadata showed when shed taken the photo that Ms F said she would be 
honest with UKI. She said she bought the same laptop as a replacement and the photo was 
of the replacement laptop bought before Christmas 2018. She then said her husbands friend 
had bought the laptop as she didnt have any cash left. Ms F couldnt remember why shed
told UKI on 1 March that she hadnt bought a replacement laptop and then said she thought 
if she already had a replacement she may not be able to make a claim.Ms F complains that UKI didnt give her enough time to get information in support of her 
claim after it told her it was concerned about the validity of her claim. But Ms F had from 
November 2018 to get the receipt for the laptop she said had been stolen. If she couldnt get 
the receipt from the university I dont think that was a sufficient reason to give UKI the false 
information she gave. And UKI gave Ms F plenty of opportunity in the 21 March call to 
voluntarily tell it shed given false information in support of her claim, which she chose not to 
take until she had no other option.
Ms F says shes now provided the product manual for the replacement laptop showing the 
production date as 29 November 2018, the same day of the theft, which she says proves the 
laptop in her photo wasnt the stolen laptop. Shes also provided a receipt for the laptop.
I havent seen an English translation of the documents. But I dont think thats makes a 
difference to my decision as I dont think the documents as described by Ms F show she had 
a laptop that was stolen.
The police report says a laptop was reported as stolen but that doesnt prove a laptop was 
stolen. UKI can reasonably take other information Ms F gave to support her claim into 
account in deciding what probably happened. Im satisfied that UKI reasonably believed a 
laptop wasnt stolen in the theft.
Generally, for an act to be fraudulent a person will say something that theyre aware is 
dishonest, and its being said to make a personal gain for themselves or another person, or 
causing a loss or risk of loss to another. Ms F knew shed given UKI false information and 
she did so to try to support an insurance claim so a settlement would be made to her.
The courts have decided that the fraudulent claims rule doesnt apply in some 
circumstances. Usually for the rule to apply the false information from the consumer either 
needs to make a claim that wouldnt normally be paid under the policy appear to be one that 
would be; or increase the amount the consumer could claim for to more than theyre entitled 
to.
As I think UKI reasonably believed Ms F made a claim for a laptop that hadnt been stolen it 
can reasonably understand she made a fraudulent claim and the fraudulent claims rule does 
apply.
Even if I thought UKI wasnt reasonable in its belief that a laptop hadnt been stolen I think 
there are other reasons why Ms F wasnt making a valid claim.
First, although during the claim process Ms F told UKI the stolen laptop was her laptop she 
told us the laptop was bought for her husband by a university. I dont have any evidence that 
Ms Fs husband was insured on her travel policy through her single bank account. If he 
wasnt insured under the policy then any item of his wasnt covered by the policy and Ms F 
couldnt make a valid claim for an item that belonged to her husband.
Second, even if Ms Fs husband was insured under the policy Ms F has told us the laptop 
that was stolen was bought by the university and the replacement laptop was also bought by 
the university. She didnt give that information to UKI when detailing her claim. In the 
21 March call Ms F told UKI shed bought the laptop that was stolen and her husbands 
friend bought the replacement because shed run out of money. UKIs records show Ms F 
only told it on 23 March 2019 that she wished to send a letter from the university to confirm 
the university had paid for both laptops.
That means even if the laptop had been stolen, the true situation was Ms F made a claim for 
a laptop that she, or her husband, hadnt paid for and they hadnt paid for the replacement laptop they already had when Ms F made the claim. So Ms F, or her husband, hadnt 
suffered a financial loss and had no valid claim.
I understand Ms F claimed for the mobile phones on other insurance. Im satisfied that UKI 
fairly declined the claim for the laptop and as UKI reasonably understood the claim for the 
laptop was fraudulent it doesnt need to pay the claim for the cash. It acted within the policy 
terms, and fairly, in cancelling the policy.
Ms F says theres a fraud indicator on her records and as shes had difficulty in getting 
financial products Im taking it that UKI has recorded information about the claim on Cifas, a 
fraud prevention agency. UKI should confirm thats what happened in response to my 
provisional decision so Ms F knows thats so, if she doesnt know already.
Ms F has told us that she very much regrets not telling UKI the truth. She wants UKI to 
remove the fraud indicator. But as I think UKI can reasonably understand Ms F made a 
fraudulent claim it acted reasonably, and within the policy terms, in placing a fraud indicator 
for Ms Fs claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said it had recorded information about the claim on Cifas in 2019. It clarified that 
although Ms Fs husband wasnt named on the bank account to which the policy is attached, 
or named on the policy, he was covered under the policy terms.
Ms F provided detailed responses with documents. In brief, she says:
the information and some of the new documents shed provided showed the laptop 
had been stolen in the theft. The sad family circumstances on the day of the theft 
meant it was inconceivable that she and her husband had fraudulently reported to the 
police that an old laptop had been stolen
the policy covered her husbands items. The policy said it covered stolen personal 
possessions. A dictionary definition of possession was control or occupancy of 
property without regard to ownership and as the laptop was in their possession at 
the time of the theft it was a valid claim 
as the university paid for the stolen and replacement laptops she and her husband 
didnt suffer a personal financial loss but if UKI paid the claim the payment would go 
to the university research fund
once UKI told her it thought shed made a fraudulent claim it should have given her 
more time to send it documents to show the laptop had been stolen 
one of our publications said a customer who presents forged documents to support a 
claim isnt necessarily fraudulent, it was about why they presented forged 
documents. She said because she didnt have a receipt for the stolen laptop shed 
sent the photos of the wrong laptop to show the make of the stolen laptop, not to 
make a fraudulent claim
she bitterly regrets not telling UKI the truth from the start. But she thought UKI was 
unfair to say shed made a fraudulent claim as the laptop was stolen. She said  
insurance companies have the reputation of finding excuses not to pay claims but in 
her case her life had been badly affected by a fraud marker being unfairly placed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very briefly summarised the key points Ms F has made but Ive considered all her 
comments and documents in reaching my decision. I do understand that Ms F very much 
regrets not telling UKI the truth, but my decision remains that I dont uphold this complaint. 
The new documents, which include certified English translations, might establish that the  
laptop was probably stolen in the theft. And I note that the policy terms cover Ms Fs 
husbands possessions. 
But even if I thought that on the new information UKI wasnt reasonable to say the laptop 
hadnt been stolen I still think Ms F wasnt making a valid claim.
Ultimately, Ms F knew she was claiming for a laptop which the university had paid for and 
replaced at the time of the claim. I dont think the dictionary definition of possession that 
Ms Fs referred to assists her. The fact remains she was making a claim which had the 
potential to financially benefit her and her husband, rather than recover a direct financial loss 
theyd suffered. 
If it had always been Ms Fs intention to claim and donate the money back to the university 
research fund she could, and reasonably should, have been much clearer with UKI about the 
true circumstances from the start of the claim. Instead, she was still telling UKI in the 
21 March call that shed bought the laptop that was stolen and her husbands friend bought 
the replacement because shed run out of money.
I dont think Ms Fs explanations of her intentions sufficiently explain her actions when she 
claimed and her conversations with UKI. I explained above that I think UKI gave Ms F the 
opportunity to tell it the true situation and that included that she/her husband had no 
personal financial loss. Even if I thought UKI should have given Ms F more time to explain 
the true situation after it alleged fraud the fact remains that she and her husband had no 
personal financial loss to claim for.
The fraudulent claim rule doesnt apply in some circumstances. But in the circumstances of 
Ms Fs claim I think its reasonable for UKI to apply the rule. UKI has confirmed it recorded 
information about the claim on Cifas. I think UKI applied the marker fairly and doesnt need 
to remove the marker. As UKI can reasonably understand the claim was fraudulent it doesnt 
need to pay the claim for the cash and it acted within the policy terms, and fairly, in 
cancelling the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman