DRN-3830350
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him the amount he 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr E came across an advertisement for cryptocurrency investment online with a 
business called FIneTero (F). Having viewed positive online reviews Mr E decided to invest 
with F. Mr E started by investing a small amount and when he saw the potential return 
invested more.
Mr E made the following payments on his Visa debit card to the cryptocurrency exchange 
BitTheBank. The funds were then forwarded to F.
1. 22 March 2021 - £515.00
2. 12 April 2021 - £1,030.00
3. 19 April 2021 - £3,708.00
4. 22 April 2021 - £1,230.67
Mr E was able to see his investment on the F platform so felt comfortable with the 
investment, but when he tried to make a withdrawal F stopped replying to him and he was 
unable to recover any of the funds in his account with F.
HSBC refused to refund any of the payments Mr E made to F. Our Investigator considered 
Mr Es complaint but thought HSBC had acted fairly, so didnt suggest that it should do 
anything to resolve Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed, he thought the payments he was making on his debit card should have 
been stopped by HSBC and that HSBC should have protected him from the scam. As Mr E 
disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr E and HSBC set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should 
refund any of the money Mr E has lost because of this scam.
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr E made in relation to this 
scam to BitTheBank.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr E was dealing with F, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr E didnt 
make the debit card payments to F directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(BitTheBank). This is important because HSBC was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (BitTheBank), not another party (such as F).
The service provided by BitTheBank would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Es payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, BitTheBank provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr E paid. As BitTheBank 
provided the requested service to Mr E any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr E has accepted he authorised the payments he made to BitTheBank, so the starting point 
here is that Mr E is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr E was making.
Mr E says the payments were international and for higher amounts than was usual for his 
account. This should have been enough for HSBC to see a risk and step in to prevent the 
scam.
I have looked at the payments Mr E made on his debit card.
The first payment Mr E made was for a relatively low amount (£515.00) and was made to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange (BitTheBank). So, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
suggest HSBCs fraud prevention systems should have been triggered by this payment, or 
that HSBC should have stepped in to prevent it.
The second payment Mr E made to BitTheBank was for a larger but still restively low amount 
(£1,030.00). The two payments were separated by around two weeks and again the 
payment was made to a legitimate business. So, I dont think this payment would have 
triggered HSBCs fraud prevention systems.
The final two payments were made around one week after the second payment on different 
days. I appreciate these payments were for larger amounts with the highest amount being 
£3,708.00 but by this time a pattern was starting to emerge on Mr Es account with him 
making regular payments to a legitimate business, and this amount is still not of such a high 
amount that I would expect it to trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to suggest that HSBC should step in every time one of its customers 
made a larger payment to a legitimate business that they had previously made payments to.
Overall, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say HSBCs fraud prevention system 
should have been triggered by the payments Mr E made to BitTheBank. So, I dont think it 
would have been able to step in and stop the scam taking place, and I dont think it was responsible for any of Mr Es loss. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman