DRN-3615435
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed his account and recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In March 2022, Mr Os account received credits of £250 and £100. The funds were 
immediately transferred on to a third-party. Monzo subsequently received a notification from 
the third-party bank, responsible for sending these payments to Mr Os account, stating that 
the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Monzo decided to block Mr Os 
account pending a review. As a result of the review, it decided to close to close the account 
and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr O.
Mr O was unhappy and complained. Monzo looked at Mr Os complaint and didnt uphold it. 
As Mr O remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. He didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Os 
account in March 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr O was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr O has said that he agreed to receive the payments into his account on behalf of his friend 
who was owed money. He said his friend asked him to receive these payments as his own 
account was blocked. Mr O was supposed to withdraw the funds in cash and pass them on 
to his friend but by the time he received the funds his friends account was unblocked and so 
he instead transferred them on. Mr O told our adjudicator that he never paid this friend 
before. He also said that his friend wasnt very trustworthy but didnt think much of it at the 
time. Finally, Mr O wasnt able to provide any messages or anything similar to verify this 
arrangement with his friend.
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. But while Ive tried to give Mr O the benefit of the 
doubt there are some things which simply dont add up here. For example, Mr O says that he 
never made any previous payments to his friend. But there are payments made to and 
payments received from the payee in question prior to the transactions in question. Mr O 
says he cant be expected to have remembered this. But given the number of payments, I 
would have expected him to at least recall that the payments flagged up werent the first 
payments hed aver made to his friend.
Furthermore, Im also concerned that Mr O still made the second transfer on the day after 
the first, even though the first transfer would clearly have highlighted that his friends account 
wasnt in fact blocked, as, he says, he was told. And this was in circumstances, where Mr O 
says his friend wasnt trustworthy. In these circumstances, by the time of the second 
payment, at the very least, I think that Mr O ought to have been on notice that the payment 
may not have been legitimate, yet he chose to transfer these funds anyway. And all of this is 
the case in circumstances where Mr O hasnt been able to provide anything to corroborate 
his version of events either.
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr O was not an unwitting participant in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account and then transferred onwards. So I dont think that Monzo acted 
unfairly towards Mr O when recording a fraud marker against him.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Os account. I think its worth me explaining that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Os account permitted Monzo to close it without notice where it believes a 
customer has broken the law or attempted to break the law. Ive already explained why I 
think Monzo was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Os account had been used for 
fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud 
prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Monzo to close Mr Os account. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Os 
complaint on this basis either.I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O. But I hope Mr O will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr O might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman