DRN-1435897
The complaint
Ms J complains that Scottish Widows Limited gave her incorrect information when she called 
to find out the surrender value of her plan. Once the plan was surrendered, she received 
less than she was told she would as a result of a much larger deduction for Corporate Gains 
Tax (CGT). 
What happened
In 1979 Ms J took out a long term savings plan and paid a monthly premium of £8 per 
month. The plan was a qualifying life assurance policy which meant that if Ms J kept the plan 
in force for ten years or more, the benefit would be paid to her free of income or capital gains 
tax liabilities. 
On 25 February 2019 Ms J contacted Scottish Widows twice and asked about the surrender 
value of her plan. She was told her plan was worth £15,727.98 but a deduction for CGT of 
£111 would be made on surrender. This was confirmed in writing the same day. 
Ms J agreed to go ahead with the surrender, but raised a number of issues:
She was given a different maturity date on the telephone than what was quoted in the 
email she received following her conversation. 
She didnt agree the plan should be subject to CGT. 
She was unhappy that she was 2 months in arrears on her plan, despite her direct 
debit instruction still being in place and her account having sufficient funds to cover 
the premiums. 
She was told the product had a fixed term of 40 years, but the document containing 
the details of the plan said it was a whole of life policy. 
 
Scottish Widows wrote to Ms J explaining that the policy had a variable premium paying term 
 in other words once she had paid the premium for 40 years the policy would still exist 
unless it was surrendered. Scottish Widows also explained that CGT was payable because 
the legal holder of the shares was the life insurance company  in her case Scottish Widows. 
As it couldnt claim any allowances for CGT, it provided for the tax it was liable for on the 
underlying investments by making deductions from the policyholders proceeds. 
There was some further correspondence in the following days, including:
A letter from Scottish Widows sent on 28 February 2019 confirming that the 
surrender of the plan had been actioned and the policy value was £15,785.45. From 
this, CGT of £1,274.46 would be deducted, and she would receive the remaining 
£14,510.99 in her account. 
Another letter sent on 1 March apologising for the inaccurate information she had 
been given in the telephone calls shed made in February and offering her £100 
compensation for the customer service issues. The letter also explained in more 
detail why a deduction for CGT was made and addressed some other service issues 
Ms J had experienced. It confirmed that the surrender request hadnt yet been processed and Scottish Widows offered to halt the surrender if Ms J had now 
changed her mind. 
 
Ms J subsequently confirmed that she wanted the policy encashed. Shortly after her 
instruction, she received £14,510.99 in her account.
However, shed not yet received the 28 February letter in which this figure was explained  
so she wrote to Scottish Widows and asked it to explain why there was such a difference 
between the total she received and what she was quoted on 25 February. 
Scottish Widows looked into Ms Js concerns, and acknowledged that there had been a 
mistake in the original surrender value she was given in February. In short, it acknowledged 
Ms J was given the wrong information on 25 February because it had incorrectly calculated 
the amount of CGT that would be deducted at the point of encashment. It offered Ms J an 
additional £250 as compensation for the error. 
Ms J remained unhappy with Scottish Widows response and referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Js complaint about Scottish Widows. She 
acknowledged the service issues Ms J had experienced and that Scottish Widows had paid 
Ms J £350 as compensation for those. But she said that it wouldnt be fair to ask Scottish 
Widows to refund the full tax charge, because the charge was correct and would always 
have been payable. She considered that Ms J was left with the wrong impression about how 
much money she would receive for around 3 days  and so she concluded that the 
compensation Scottish Widows had offered was fair and reasonable. 
Ms J didnt agree. She said that shed asked for the policy to be encashed in good faith, 
based on the figures she had originally been given. She said the error only became apparent 
once the money reached her account and she saw the discrepancy. She said Scottish 
Widows ought to have offered her the opportunity of reinstating the policy at this point so that 
she was brought back to the same financial position she wouldve been in had she not 
encashed the policy. She said that while she had decided to encash the policy in order to 
fund the purchase of a new car, she had other funds which she wouldve been able to use. 
So she asked the investigator to reconsider whether she could ask Scottish Widows to 
reinstate the policy. 
The investigator reconsidered matters, but wasnt persuaded to change her mind. In short, 
she said that Scottish Widows had confirmed it couldnt reinstate the policy now it had been 
encashed  so this option wasnt available. She also wasnt persuaded that Ms J would have 
decided not to surrender the policy had she been given accurate information to begin with  
given that it had appeared that the main issue she had been unhappy with was the CGT 
deduction. That deduction would always have become payable. The investigator 
acknowledged Ms Js points that the plan had been doing well, but considered that her claim 
that she wouldve wanted the policy reinstated at the time (or wouldve chosen not to 
surrender it had she known the correct tax figure) was based on the benefit of hindsight. 
Ms J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In short, she said:
Scottish Widows only offered to reinstate the policy in its letter of 1 March. Once the 
policy had been encashed there was no offer to reinstate. Ms J said if it had offered 
her this then, she wouldve had an opportunity to revert to the position that [she] was 
in before their error. She disagreed with the investigators interpretation of her concerns. She said her 
concern wasnt with the way the fund was taxed  it was with the incorrect 
information she had been given at the outset. Her decision to encash was only driven 
by the fact that she had been told shed receive £15,727.98 and not £14,510.99. 
She didnt consider it appropriate for the investigator to speculate on what she 
wouldve done had she been given correct information. She said that she had other 
resources available and taking advantage of any future appreciation in the value of 
the units, whilst deferring the tax liability, would have been an attractive option. 
 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J, because I can see that she feels very strongly that her 
complaint should be upheld and that shes been treated unfairly by Scottish Widows. But in 
taking all the circumstances of her case into account, I agree with the investigators 
conclusions and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ms Js concerns centre, primarily, around the amount of CGT which was deducted from the 
surrender value of her plan. Her first concern, which I understand she now broadly accepts, 
was around whether Scottish Widows was entitled to make any deduction at all. But her 
second and much more significant concern is the discrepancy between originally being told 
only £111 would be deducted, and later seeing over £1,200 being deducted. 
I completely understand why such a discrepancy would cause her upset  and equally 
acknowledge why she now feels like shes been left worse off than she wouldve been. And 
so in principle Im satisfied that she ought to have been due compensation for the undoubted 
stress that this error wouldve caused. 
But I dont agree that this means the full deduction ought to be refunded to her, nor that the 
plan ought to be reinstated  something which, in any event, Scottish Widows has confirmed 
it cannot do. 
I say this because the deduction for CGT would always have been payable by her. Whether 
shed encashed the plan in 2019 or in some other year, there would always have been a 
similar deduction. And indeed, as the investigator pointed out, had the plan continued 
performing well then that deduction would likely have been more significant in the future. 
Equally, Im not persuaded on balance that had she been told the correct figure on 
25 February it wouldve made a difference to her decision to encash. Given her initial 
correspondence with the business, Im persuaded that she wouldve queried the deduction  
but once explained, I think its likely she wouldve accepted the deduction much as she did 
after March. Having considered all the correspondence, and Ms Js comments, Im 
persuaded that a significant factor in Ms Js dissatisfaction is the difference between the 
original £111 deduction, and what it later turned out to be  not necessarily the amount 
itself. 
Ms J has said that the prospect of leaving the plan in place and taking advantage of any 
future appreciation is something she wouldve wanted. But if this had been an important 
consideration for her, Im not persuaded she wouldve asked for the plan to be surrendered in the first place. She knew how well the plan had done already  the only difference is that 
she was given an incorrect figure for the tax deduction.
So for these reasons, I consider that the fair and reasonable way to put things right for Ms J 
would be a payment for trouble and upset. I consider that the award Scottish Widows has 
already paid Ms J of £350 is fair and reasonable for the reasons Ive given  and I dont 
consider it would be fair to ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman