DRN-2942422
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have not provided him with 
clear or reliable projections of the maturity value of his mortgage endowment policy as the 
starting values used for the projections are incorrect.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Aviva needs to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Mr M submits that Aviva have been providing him with misleading projections that do not 
make sense. He says that in the starting value of its projections, Aviva apply a reduction of 
20% of the accrued terminal bonus. Mr M says the insurer has only taken a proportion of his 
benefits into account, which he submits is in breach of the FCAs Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
I note that ABI guidelines on mortgage endowment projections allow firms the flexibility to 
use lower rates where appropriate. And ultimately, the decision is one for the insurer to 
make based on its particular fund and prevailing market conditions. However, I accept that 
COBS 13 Annex 2 sets out additional requirements for with-profits policies:
2.8 (2): A standardised deterministic projection for a with-profits policy where bonus 
rates apply must assume that the bonus rates supported by the relevant premium 
and rate of return apply throughout the contract. 
But while its clear that standardised projections must assume that bonus rates apply 
throughout the term of the contract, Ive not seen anything within COBS 13 that says a firm 
must always use 100% of the current terminal bonus when calculating projections, such that 
Avivas approach can be said to be in breach of COBS 13.5. Aviva says that it adopts this 
approach consistently across all of its policyholders throughout the duration of the policy and 
uses 80% of the terminal bonus so as not to overstate bonuses. Given the terminal bonus is 
not guaranteed, I dont think this is an unreasonable or imprudent approach for it to take, and 
Im not persuaded that it is in direct breach or contravention of anything set out in COBS 
13.5 Annex 2 either. So, I dont consider it would be appropriate for me to direct Aviva to 
change the way it calculates Mr Ms projections. 
In any event, even if I were to agree that Avivas projections have not been made in line with 
COBS 13 Annex 2 as Mr M suggests, Im not persuaded this has caused any material 
detriment or has ultimately prejudiced his position or financial planning.
I appreciate that Mr M found it difficult to make a decision on what to do with his property 
when approaching the maturity of his mortgage/policy. But even if the projections were made 
more optimistically regarding the terminal bonus, for example, there is no guarantee that 
Mr M would have received that amount upon maturity. So, this uncertainty is something that 
wouldve always had to have been factored into his decision making. 
Mr M is also seemingly quite informed on investments in general as well as how Aviva have 
calculated his projection. I appreciate Aviva did not originally make this clear. But he is now 
aware that they take the current fund value plus 80% of the terminal bonus to produce the 
projections throughout the term of the policy and will continue to do so. Aviva have also 
provided a detailed explanation as to why they adopt this approach. As such, Mr M will be 
able to take this into consideration for any future decision making and financial planning, and 
could also request the surrender value of the policy from Aviva if required to assist in his 
financial planning.  
Aviva has, however, acknowledged that they could have offered to send a more specific 
projection within the last 6 months of Mr Ms plan. But it offered £100 compensation for any 
trouble and upset caused by this, and Im satisfied this represents fair compensation in the 
circumstances as they have now informed Mr M of the basis on which they will continue to 
calculate their projections. So, Im not persuaded that any further award is warranted here.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has made an offer to pay a total of £100.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Aviva should pay Mr M (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision. 
Mr M should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, it will purely be a matter between Mr M and Aviva as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman