DRN-3257569
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of the transfer of his pet insurance 
cover to another insurer.
All references in this decision to Aviva include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr B held annually renewable cover with Aviva when, in 2020, it decided to withdraw from 
the pet insurance market and instead enter a partnership with a third-party pet insurance 
provider. 
Aviva wrote to its pet insurance customers  including Mr B  in late 2020 to explain more 
about the transfer and how it would take place. Unfortunately, Mr B didnt receive those 
letters since hed moved to a new address and theyd been sent to his previous one. 
Mr B spoke to Aviva a few weeks before his cover was due to renew in 2021, during which 
time it offered to re-send the letters concerning the transfer of business to the correct 
address. Mr B said Aviva didnt need to re-send them, and instead chose to speak to the 
new provider regarding his renewal. 
Mr B became unhappy when he realised that Aviva had passed on his direct debit details to 
the new insurer, who had collected policy premiums from his bank account. He complained 
to Aviva on the grounds that it had breached his trust.
In rejecting the complaint, Aviva said the letters explained the transfer and that payment 
details would also be transferred unless the customer opted out and decided to end their 
cover. Although Mr B had, at one stage, opted out he later opted back into the transfer, 
which meant the cover went ahead. Aviva went on to say it wasnt notified of Mr Bs change 
of address until those letters had been sent. It said that Mr B refused its offer to re-send 
them. 
Unhappy with Aviva response, Mr B came to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint but 
didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They thought Aviva was entitled to withdraw from 
the pet insurance market and had done so fairly in this case. The investigator felt Mr B 
subsequently became aware of the transfer and had the opportunity to opt out of the 
transfer, meaning his details wouldnt have transferred to the new insurer and that premiums 
wouldnt have been collected.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said, among other things, that Aviva should have 
insisted on telling him that his personal details would be shared with the new insurer despite 
him refusing Avivas offer to re-send the transfer letters. He felt the premiums collected from 
his account had effectively been stolen. The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mr B hasnt specifically argued this in response to the investigators assessment, I 
agree with the latter that Aviva was entitled to withdraw from the market and enter the 
partnership that it did. This was, essentially, a commercial decision that was for Aviva to 
make.
That said, it was for Aviva to ensure Mr B wasnt unduly affected by these new 
arrangements. To that end, its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive its letters of late 2020 or 
the frequently asked questions document (FAQs) that was enclosed with them. Together, 
they provided information that many customers would no doubt have found useful. 
This information included the need for direct debits to remain in place for cover to continue 
and that Aviva intended to transfer customers data to the new insurer unless instructed by 
them not to. The FAQs also explained the next steps for customers who wanted Aviva to 
transfer their data to the new insurer and the next steps for those that didnt.
Nevertheless, Mr B was given the opportunity to have these letters re-sent before the 
renewal of his policy and he turned the offer down. I can understand that his focus may have 
been elsewhere, such as on securing comparable cover at an appropriate price. But I dont 
see how Aviva could have insisted, as he puts it, on passing on certain information to him in 
the face of his refusal to receive it. That may have given rise to other concerns  for example 
allegations that Aviva had provided unwanted information or that it was in some way forcing 
the issue.
Overall, I think Aviva did enough in this respect in sending the letters to the address it had on 
file and to subsequently offer to re-send them to Mr B. 
I also think that Aviva acted fairly in inviting customers  including Mr B  to opt out of the 
transfer rather than to opt in. I say that because the consequences of inadvertently 
remaining on cover were potentially far less serious than if cover were to end prematurely. 
The latter could have left pet owners without cover and might potentially have meant them 
being unable to claim should an event arise. It could also have meant the need for owners to 
arrange insurance elsewhere that didnt include cover for pre-existing medical conditions in a 
way that transferred policies might have. 
In the circumstances, I think it was appropriate for Aviva to exercise caution and ask Mr B to 
opt out of transferring  which I gather he did initially before changing his mind  rather than 
opt in. 
Taking everything into account, and while I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling about the 
matter, I dont consider that Avivas treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman