DRN-1596847
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B, who are represented by a third party, say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS, trading 
as BoS, mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy alongside a 
mortgage in or around July 1998.
They say they felt they were pressured into buying the policy, it wasnt properly explained to 
them and they didnt need it.
Background
Only Mr B was covered by the policy and it would have covered mortgage repayments for up 
to 12 months if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed on to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B said the policy was sold during a telephone call. But based on the documents 
Ive seen, it looks to me as if the policy was sold during a meeting at a BoS branch. And BoS 
has told us that it recommended Mr and Mrs B take out the cover. That means it had to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr B and the information provided was clear, fair and 
not misleading. I havent seen anything to suggest BoS didnt do this.
Ive looked carefully at the documents from the time of sale. I can see Mr and Mrs B 
completed a mortgage application and that they ticked a box to show that at that point they 
didnt want to take out MPPI. So it looks like the policy was taken out before the mortgage 
process was completed  which is not unusual. Ive also seen electronic screenshots 
showing the MPPI application from which I can see there would have been some discussion 
at the time to check that Mr B was eligible for the policy.
All of this means I think Mr and Mrs B were aware they had a choice about taking out the 
policy. And whilst Ive seen their comments about feeling pressured to take the policy, based 
on what Ive seen and the length of time since the sale, there simply isnt enough evidence 
or information to suggest to me that the sale of the MPPI happened that way. Mr B was eligible for the MPPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think he would have found it difficult if he needed to make a claim. Mr 
B said he was entitled to good work benefits from his employer, of at least 3 months at full 
pay followed by 3 months at half pay. Mr and Mrs B also had some savings they say they 
could have used to help make repayments, including the proceeds of a separate 
compensation payment. 
Ive taken all this into careful consideration but I still think the policy was suitable. This is 
because the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months following a successful claim and 
wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits. It would also have avoided the need to dig 
into savings or lump-sum payments that might have been ear-marked for a specific purpose. 
Mr and Mrs B had. Given the serious consequences of defaulting on mortgage repayments, I 
think they wouldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost £20.24 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £400. So if 
a Mr B made a successful claim, I think the policy would have benefitted him and Mrs B 
more than it cost. The cost and benefit of the cover was set out on the application form  so I 
think BoS made him aware of this before he signed for the policy.
Its possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things the 
policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr B would have been affected by 
any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mr and Mrs B change their 
minds about talking out the policy.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that ve also taken into account the information theyve 
provided following our adjudicators view, but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. 
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs B on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman