DRN-4244847
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited no longer supports the buying and selling of 
cryptocurrency through his current account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Historically, Mr M had linked his Starling account to a well-known, online cryptocurrency 
trading platform. But, towards the end of 2022, a payment he tried to make to the 
platform was blocked. When he queried this with Starling he was advised that the bank 
had reviewed its position relating to financial crime and had decided to no longer support 
the buying and selling of cryptocurrency given the risks doing so posed. 
Mr M is unhappy with Starlings decision and wants to be able to use his account and 
spend his money however he sees fit. 
Our investigator didnt think Starling had acted unreasonably. But Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M is frustrated that he cant use his account in the way he wants, and he 
doesnt think trading in cryptocurrency poses any more of a risk than some other activities, 
which Starling still permits payments to be made towards. But the industry regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority  explains on its InvestSmart webpages that cryptocurrency is 
largely unregulated in the UK, its considered a high risk, speculative investment and 
scammers have been increasingly active in targeting potential investors. 
Starling has explained its for reasons akin to those the FCA describes that it no longer 
supports the buying and selling of cryptocurrency. Im satisfied the terms and conditions of 
the account permit Starling to apply payment limits and restrictions in the way it has done 
here. And Im also aware that other high street banks have made similar decisions not to 
allow payments to cryptocurrency.
This restriction is also now set out on Starlings website. I cant be sure when this was first 
published, so I can understand this likely came as a surprise to Mr M when the payment was 
blocked. But he appears to have contacted Starling soon after the payment was declined, 
and the bank explained then why this had happened.
As Mr M has pointed out, hes free to change banks if hes unhappy with this restriction. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman