DRN-3627829
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr and Mrs U hold with Pepper (UK) Limited trading 
as Engage Credit. Theyre unhappy that Engage told them they owed about £10,000 less 
than they actually did.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs U and Pepper, and not 
in dispute. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs U being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage was originally taken out with a different lender, but was then transferred to 
Engage. It was due for repayment in May 2022, and during a phone conversation in 
March 2022, a staff member told Mr and Mrs U that, following an internal transfer adjustment 
of around £10,000, the outstanding balance was around £3,800. This was a mistake; in 
reality, the balance, with the adjustment already taken into account. was about £13,900.
Engage admitted to the mistake, apologised, and credited the mortgage account with £150, 
by way of compensation. When the case came to us, our investigator recommended Engage 
increase the compensation to £300. Engage hasnt responded to that recommendation and 
in any event, Mr and Mrs U have asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman 
because they arent satisfied with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The case itself is simpler to decide than it might appear at first glance. Thats because I dont 
have to decide fault. The main facts of what happened arent in dispute, Engage has 
admitted fault from the outset. What I do have to decide is whether the redress Engage has 
offered Mr and Mrs U is fair, or whether there is more it needs to do to put things right for 
them.
Mr and Mrs U have said they should be put in the position Engages staff told them they 
were in: i.e. owing roughly £10,000 less than they actually do. But thats not the approach we 
take. When a business gives wrong information, we dont expect it to place the customer in 
the position theyd be in if that information had been correct. We expect it to put them in the 
position theyve be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. 
Mr and Mrs U are already in that position because they owe what they owe; all thats 
happened is that, for a time, their expectations were raised unrealistically. Theyve said that 
based on what Engage told them, theyve spent money they wouldnt otherwise have spent, 
but when we asked them for evidence of that, Mr and Mrs U werent able to provide it.
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. Taking into consideration 
everything that both parties have said and provided, and mindful of our general approach. I 
consider that £300, rather than the original £150, represents fair and reasonable 
compensation for what Ive no doubt was a distressing experience for Mr and Mrs U, but one 
that was put right in less than two weeks.
I understand Mr and Mrs U entered into a payment arrangement with Engage to repay the 
outstanding balance, but have since got into difficulties with that due to a change in 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs U could raise a new complaint about how thats being dealt with 
if they felt the need to do so, but its not something for me to deal with here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complain in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit to pay £150 directly to Mr and Mrs U, in 
addition to the £150 it has already credited to their mortgage account. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman