DRN-2797623
The complaint
Mrs A complains about a decision by LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) to report late 
payments to her credit file and says they were so late removing the markers that she was 
unable to obtain favourable rates on a mortgage application.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
late payment markers
Ive reviewed LeasePlans system records and can see that Mrs A entered into a payment 
arrangement in late July 2020. Late payment markers were therefore reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
LeasePlan have explained that the markers were removed as a gesture of good will. They 
have an obligation to report late payments factually; I havent found evidence that the 
markers were reported inaccurately, and it therefore wouldnt be fair for me to suggest 
LeasePlan have done anything wrong here.
the delayed removal of the markers
I can see that LeasePlan agreed to remove the late payment markers on 3 August 2020.  
They have provided evidence that this was completed on 26 August 2020 a couple of 
months before Mrs As mortgage offer. I dont think I have been provided with sufficient 
evidence to suggest Mrs A was unable to obtain preferential mortgage terms as a result of 
the late payment markers being on her file. It seems likely she could have made another 
application after they were removed, if that was the case, and I think LeasePlans offer of 
£350 compensation was a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman