DRN-4250800
The complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry out
sufficient affordability checks before it granted a loan which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Cashfloat for £900 on 5 August 2022. Mr M was due to make six
monthly repayments with his largest payment being £255.80. Mr M has had some difficulties
repaying the loan and an outstanding balance remains.
Cashfloat wrote to Mr M with a final response letter in September 2022. Cashfloat didnt
uphold the complaint because it said, in summary it had carried out proportionate checks
which showed Mr M would be able to afford the loan repayments. Unhappy with this
response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who concluded Cashfloat made a
reasonable decision to lend the loan because it carried out a proportionate check which
showed Cashfloat that Mr M would be able to afford the largest repayment he was due to
make.
Mr M didnt agree and Ive read in full what Mr M says about his other lending and seen the
copy of the credit files he has provided.
The adjudicator went back to Mr M and explained why his comments and additional
information hadnt changed his mind. Mr M then explained that Cashfloat had carried out a
credit search prior to the loan being advanced.
After Cashfloat confirmed a credit search was carried out, this still didnt change the
adjudicators mind and this was communicated to Mr M. In response, the following points
were made:
The wage slip Mr M gave Cashfloat as part of his application included a discretionary 
bonus.
Had Cashfloat checked his credit file it wouldve seen the outstanding payday loans.
Mr Ms credit file shows, in June 2022 a loan being repaid and then immediately
taking out a larger loan from another provider.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me and I issued my provisional 
decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Both 
parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible, but in 
any event no later than 17 July 2023.
Mr M let us know he was happy with the proposed outcome. 
Cashfloat also emailed to let us know that it was going to accept the outcome. It helpfully 
provided a breakdown of the refund which it says is owed to Mr M. 
After the redress is calculated Mr M is still likely to have an outstanding balance of £191.08 
to pay. Cashfloat also confirmed it would be happy for this amount to be repaid through a 
repayment plan. 
A copy of provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ms complaint because only one loan was advanced.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Ms income and expenditure.
Cashfloat recorded that Mr M worked full time and received a monthly salary of £2,350. But
Cashfloat also took a copy of Mr Ms July 2022 wage slip that showed he received an
income of £2,505. But Mr M is correct in saying that this month he received a bonus  which
increased his normal monthly salary.
Cashfloat says that this showed Mr M was in a steady job and therefore his income wasunlikely to decrease in the coming months. However, it is clear, from the wage slip that this
bonus wasnt guaranteed. And it does seem, that it is the amount of £2,350 that Cashfloat
used for its affordability assessment  and I think that was reasonable.
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr M declared to be £1,880 per
month. Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that it added a buffer of £200 to this total.
And based on the income amount of £2,350 this left Mr M £270 in which to make his loan
repayments of £255. While this appears to show the loan was affordable, given what else
Cashfloat knew about Mr Ms circumstances  Cashfloat was leaving in effect only £15 each
month for six months. That isnt a lot.
Before this loan was approved Cashfloat also carried out a credit search and it has provided
the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
Cashfloat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Cashfloat couldnt do is carry out a credit search and
then not react to the to the information it received. Cashfloat was also entitled to rely on the
results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway
inaccurate.
Having reviewed the credit check results, I do think Cashfloat ought to have been concerned
by the information that was provided. Firstly, Cashfloat was told that taking account of the
rent that was being reported on the credit file, two mobile phone contracts and utilities (likely
gas and electric) Mr M would need to pay £951 per month.
In addition, Mr M had a mail order account which was costing around £30 per month to
service, and he had three credit cards. The total credit limit available to Mr M across the
three cards was £1,900 and he was utilising £1,896 of this limit. And he had been at or near
his limit on these cards for some months  which perhaps is an indicator that he wasnt
making any headway into paying down his debt.
Cashfloat were also away that Mr M had three bank loans and three loans issued by
Finance House. And these Finance House loans are likely to be home credit and / or
payday loans taking account the term and monthly repayment. The total Mr M needed to pay
each month to service these six loans comes to £667.
So just taking account of the information contained within the credit file results, Cashfloat
already knew that Mr M was committing to spending £1,743 of his income each month. But
this excludes costs for example on food, transport, other utilities, council tax, any other
membership and or subscription costs that Mr M may have had and which were not visible
on his bank statement.
Indeed, if you use his income, minus what is seen in the credit file and then from this take
away the costs for transport and food as declared in his application form this left Mr M £327
a month before the loan repayment and after the loan repayment, he was left with £72. In
which to cover any other costs  such as council tax. And, as part of the application process
Mr M declared there was no other household income, and he was responsible for two
dependants. In my view, this is extremely tight to be able to argue that the loan was
affordable for Mr M.
So, while the above credit accounts appeared to be being repaid without any undue difficulty
 as there were no adverse payment markers. Given the number of active loans Mr M had
(as well as a history of taking other short-term loans) as well as the very tight affordability
this ought to have led Cashfloat to consider whether it knew enough about his finances.
Overall, given that Mr M was committed to paying at least £255 each month for the next six
months I do think Cashfloat had to think carefully whether extending further credit was the
right thing to do.
Given the factors Ive mentioned above, I think Cashfloat needed to gain a full understanding
of Mr Ms actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, looking atbank statements and/or collecting any other documentation Cashfloat felt it needed to obtain
in order to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Mr M. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that Cashfloat
mightve needed to consider about Mr Ms financial position.
But this isnt the end of the matter, for me to be able to uphold this loan I must be satisfied
that had Cashfloat carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered that
Mr M wasnt able to afford this loan. As part of the information supplied to the Finance
Ombudsman Mr M has provided copy bank statements. So given what Ive said above I think
its entirely reasonable to review and see what the statements show.
On top of the loans that Cashfloat was told about in the credit report the bank statements
also show payments for council tax, a Television licence and a water bill  these three alone
 come to £256 per month. Which when added together with just the credit file commitments and the
loan repayment this only left Mr M £96 each month to cover transport and food costs. Which
Mr M had already declared cost him £280 per month  which I dont think is unreasonable.
And so, based on this evidence the loan clearly wasnt affordable for Mr M.
Overall, I do think, Cashfloat was on notice that perhaps Mr M was already overextended,
and so further checks wouldve highlighted that this loan was unaffordable for Mr M once all
of his living costs were factored in.
I am therefore planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint about the loan, and Ive outlined below
what Cashfloat needs to do to put things right for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted the provisional decision and so I see no reason to depart from 
those findings. I still think Cashfloat shouldnt have granted the loan because the credit 
check results it was given indicated that Mr M may have been overindebted and so further 
checks ought to have been carried out. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered that Mr M 
couldnt afford his repayments. 
Ive outlined below what Cashfloat has agreed to do in order to put things right for Mr M. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to
borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair orreasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr M the loan.
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If Cashfloat cant buy the debt back then it should liaise with the
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal of the loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Cashfloat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M. But I would remind it of its obligation to treat 
Mr M fairly and with forbearance.
C. Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if he asks for
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should put things right for Mr M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman