DRN-3716224
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
On 9 March 2022 Mrs W took out pet insurance for two kittens shed recently adopted from a 
rescue place. Red Sands was the insurer.
The same day Mrs W took the kittens to the vet for a preliminary check-up. She says both 
kittens were diagnosed as having cat flu but were otherwise fine and they were booked to 
see the vet a month later to be castrated. At the 6 April 2022 appointment the vet found that 
one kitten, who Ill refer to as B, hadnt gained any weight and blood tests were 
recommended. Mrs W says she called Red Sands to check the blood tests would be 
covered and was told they would be.
B had the blood tests which Mrs W claimed for. But over the next few days Bs health 
declined rapidly. Before the test results were received sadly B had to be put to sleep. 
Red Sands declined the claim. On 11 April 2022 Mrs Ws vet had noted Bs ill health was 
suspected to be due to feline infectious peritonitis (FIP). Red Sands said B showed 
symptoms of FIP at the 9 March 2022 vet appointment which was during the first 14 days of 
the policy start date. That meant under the policy terms the condition was considered to be 
pre-existing and not covered. Red Sands said when Mrs W called about cover for the blood 
tests it told her cover couldnt be guarantee without an assessment of the claim.
Mrs W complained to us. She said:
Her vet had written to Red Sands saying Bs symptoms on 9 March 2022 werent 
symptoms of FIP but Red Sands still wouldnt pay. 
Red Sands declined a claim for Bs death when she hadnt submitted such a claim. 
She thinks Red Sands should look at a claim for his death separately.
Red Sands not paying the claim had been stressful particularly when it sent her a 
card to acknowledge B had died but had accidentally put her name rather than Bs 
name.
She wants Red Sands to pay her claim for the investigations.
Our investigator said Red Sands unfairly declined the claim for investigations as she didnt 
think Bs symptoms in March 2022 were linked to the suspected FIP in April 2022. She 
recommended Red Sands pay the claim subject to the policy limit and excess plus interest 
and it should consider a claim for Bs death if Mrs W wanted to make that claim.
Mrs W agrees with our investigators recommendations. Red Sands disagrees and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. It detailed why it thought Bs symptoms seen from 9 March 2022 
were related to his suspected FIP and said an independent vet who it asked to review Bs 
medical history agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I think Red Sands unreasonably declined the   
claim for investigations. Ill explain why.
The policy specifically doesnt cover:
Pre-existing conditions 
Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any illness that relates to 
or results from anillness or where (B) showed observable changes to his normal 
healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour that could be 
observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within 14 days of your policys 
original start date.
You dont have to declare your existing conditions upfront. Upon your first claim we 
will request all of Bs medical records and will let you know what conditions will be 
excluded.
Mrs Ws policy started on 9 March 2022 so the 14 day period would be 23 March 2022. B 
was unwell on 9 March 2022 so if Red Sands could show that the symptoms were related to 
FIP it may be able to decline the claim.
Ive considered the details Red Sands has given as to why it believes Bs symptoms from 
9 March 2022 were related to his suspected FIP. Red Sands said an independent vet agreed 
with its view, but Ive not seen any evidence directly from the independent vet. 
But even if the vet Red Sands instructed does think Bs March 2022 symptoms were related 
to FIP I also have to consider the evidence from Mrs Ws vet. She wrote to Red Sands 
saying:
Please be informed that we would not consider mentioned symptoms from 9/3/22 
('R(right) eye conjunctivitis, sneezing ++ ') as symptoms of FIP. These are symptoms 
of feline upper respiratory tract infection, which is completely different disease than 
FIP (Feline Infectious Peritonitis).
Please refer to article: (details of publication given) other available sources, such as 
(details of sources given). None of the sources confirms that either 'wet' or 'dry' form 
of FIP would be associated with conjunctivitis or sneezing.
Mrs Ws vets evidence is the only direct vet evidence Ive seen and that vets clear opinion 
is Bs symptoms seen in March 2022 werent symptoms of FIP. Red Sands hasnt made any 
comment on the evidence in the publications that Mrs Ws vet referred to in support of her  
opinion. Im persuaded by the evidence of Mrs Ws vet that Bs March 2022 symptoms 
werent symptoms of FIP.
Mrs Ws vet practice notes of 7 April 2022 say B may have FIV/FELV /FIP also as now more 
neurol. signs e.g HL ataxia / licking walls.
The vet notes of 11 April 2022 say Diagnosis - still open but strongly susp FIP; or congenital 
issue. 
So the evidence is Mrs Ws vet didnt think B showed symptoms of FIP until April 2022, 
which is outside the first 14 days of the policy.
As I dont think Red Sands has shown B did have symptoms of FIP before the policy started 
or within the first 14 days of the policy I find that Red Sands unfairly relied on the pre-existing 
condition exclusion to decline the claim for investigations. The policy does cover some costs in the event of a pets death. If Mrs W wants to make a 
claim for Bs death Red Sands should assess that claim. If the parties cant agree on the 
outcome of that claim Mrs W can make a separate complaint to us on the matter
Im sorry to see Red Sands wrote Mrs Ws name, rather than Bs name, in its condolence 
card. That must have been upsetting for Mrs W. But Mrs W accepts the mistake was 
accidental and I dont think its appropriate for me to award compensation in relation to that 
matter. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim for investigations subject to the policy limit, less any excess. 
If Mrs W has already paid the vet costs Red Sands must add interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay 
the claim for investigations subject to the policy limit, less any excess. If Mrs W has already 
paid the vet costs interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date Mrs W paid the 
vet to the date of settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs W how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman