DRN-2405578
The complaint
Mr J is complaining about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled 
his claim for water damage in his home. 
What happened
Mr J bought a house in June 2019. Prior to this he obtained a house buyers report from a 
surveyor. The survey said the sealant around his shower was in poor condition and should 
be renewed  although it was suggested this wasnt imperative, time wise. In July or 
thereabouts Mr J says a plumber confirmed the sealant would need replacing  but it wasnt 
time critical.
In October, whilst having some flooring installed in the loft, the builder told him there was a 
slow leak on a pipe directly above his shower. Mr J had this repaired, and decided to stop 
using the shower for a period of time in case it needed to dry out.
In January he decided to get the grout and sealant replaced. The contractor noticed that 
some of the tiles were loose  and when he removed one, followed by several more, 
discovered extensive water damage.
Mr J contacted RSA, which agreed it would look at his claim. An assessor reported that the 
damage looked long standing, and probably built up before Mr J bought the house  so 
before he had cover.
RSA also pointed out that the construction of the shower walls wasnt as it would expect.
RSA concluded that, even if it accepted the claim, that its liability would only extend to 
replacing the damaged walls of the shower  which it said were made of plasterboard. It said 
this cost  including labour  would come to less than the £350 excess Mr J would have to 
pay.
Mr J didnt think that was fair. He said there was no way to tell if the walls were damaged by 
a water leak without removing the tiles  so RSA should pay to replace and re-fit these too. 
RSA said Mr J was planning to renovate the entire room, and that was why hed removed 
tiles. It said it wasnt fair for RSA to have to contribute towards work Mr J was already 
planning to do as part of the renovations.
Mr J complained but RSA wouldnt change its stance. So Mr J asked us to look at the 
complaint. Our investigator didnt think RSA had been fair. He didnt think RSA could show 
when the damage occurred, but as it had been building up unseen RSA couldnt refuse to 
meet the claim for this reason. And he didnt accept RSAs arguments about renovations 
either, as the damage had been discovered before any work started. Nor did he think RSA 
could say repairing the damage would cost less than the excess on Mr Js policy, if it hadnt 
included all reasonable costs.
He recommended RSA meet Mr Js claim  although he limited this to repairing the shower 
walls and re-tiling, and excluded replacing the shower tray etc as that would leave Mr J 
better off than he was before.
RSA says its unfair to ask it to pay, as it still believes Mr J is asking for a contribution 
towards his  already planned renovations.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA initially said that the construction of Mr Js shower walls wasnt as it should be and that 
was a reason why it need not meet the claim. I dont think thats a reason for not meeting the 
claim  theres been no suggestion that the construction of the walls of the shower 
contributed to the damage. I havent looked at this point further.
Mr J has accidental damage cover for his building, and that would normally cover making 
good any damage that had been building up unseen and only became visible late on when 
the damage was more serious.
Mr J does, however, only have insurance from the date he bought it to go along with his 
purchase of the house. So RSA is only responsible for putting right damage thats built up 
since then.
The difficulty here is that theres no persuasive evidence that shows me when the damage 
started  or what the main cause was. We know that the sealant in the shower was in a poor 
state  because the surveyor noted this. And he did suggest Mr J check to make sure there 
was no damage. But he didnt say that was urgent.
Mr J did become aware of a leak in a pipe in the attic above the shower in October 2019, 
and he had it fixed straight away. He says he stopped using the shower in case it needed to 
dry out, as he wouldnt know exactly where the water had gone. Given Mr J acted promptly 
in these circumstances and also took precautions to let any water dry out, I think it likely hed 
have done the same if hed thought the grout and/or sealant was causing problems. Instead 
he said that when he came to have the tiles re-grouted in January 2020, extensive damage 
was discovered.
We dont know when the pipe above the shower started leaking  but it is feasible this was 
after Mr J bought the house, and that this was the main contributor to the damage. Thats 
especially so given the photos Ive seen of damage high up on the wall and ceiling, which 
only became visible after the shower encloser walls were removed. I accept the builder who 
fixed the leak suggested it might have been leaking slowly for some time  but that doesnt 
mean it didnt start after June when Mr J moved in. 
Overall, I dont think RSA can show me that the leak or failed sealant definitely meant the 
damage built up before it insured this property. Even if it could, it would still be responsible 
for putting right the damage that built up between May 2019 (when Mr J first insured the 
property) and January 2020 when the full extent of the damage was discovered. Its likely the 
same repairs would be needed whether the damage was new or somewhat older.
I understand why RSA has told Mr J that the cost of repairs would be less than his excess  
because then it wouldnt be worth Mr J pursuing the claim. But that argument only applies if RSAs liability is  limited to replacing the plasterboard that got wet. I dont think thats fair. 
RSA hasnt shown me anything that suggests Mr J had actually started renovating the 
bathroom and shower (by which I mean replacing it and the tiles)  he seems only to have 
been exploring this as an option and having the grouting redone in the meantime. And, as is 
apparent from the photos Ive seen, it does seem you cant replace the plasterboard without 
re-tiling. 
Putting things right
I think RSA should meet this claim subject to any other relevant conditions in Mr Js policy. It 
doesnt need to pay for work that leaves Mr J better off than he was before the claim. So if, 
for example, Mr J decided to have the shower enclosure re-built using a material other than 
plasterboard RSAs obligations would only extend to the cost of plasterboard, not any more 
expensive material. 
The investigators recommendation that, as the work has been done, RSA should agree a 
cash settlement for the plasterboard, tiling and related labour for the shower enclosure 
seems a sensible way to do this. RSA can, of course, deduct any appropriate excess from 
this payment.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to meet Mr Js claim as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman