DRN-2412985
The complaint
Mr E complains that he has lost out financially as a result of delays caused by Origen 
Financial Services Limited (Origen) when it gave him regulated financial advice 
regarding transferring his pension benefits from a defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a personal pension scheme (PPS). He says hes lost out because the 
guaranteed amount of his guaranteed Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) expired 
due to these delays and the new CETV, which he took, was around £15,740 less.
What happened
Mr E was a deferred member of a defined benefit OPS provided by Company H.
Mr E received a transfer pack from the administrators of that pension scheme on 30 
September 2019. His CETV was guaranteed if he chose to transfer his benefits by 31 
December 2019. His guaranteed CETV was £268,253.07. 
Prior to deciding whether to transfer his benefits, Mr E was required by law, to obtain 
regulated financial advice about the suitability of the transfer. 
In the transfer pack sent to Mr E, his pension scheme said it had agreed, if he wanted, for 
Origen to provide him with independent regulated financial advice, and for the advice fees to 
be paid by Company H. Mr E had the option of taking up this offer of free advice. 
Alternatively, he couldve decided to appoint a different adviser and pay for the advice 
himself.
Mr E contacted Origen on 10 October 2019, having received the transfer pack at the end 
of the previous month. He completed Origens initial paperwork that same day. He was 
given a telephone consultation appointment on 22 November 2019, with one of Origens 
advisers. This was the first available date that Origen could do. 
During this initial call, its not in dispute that Mr E asked Origen if there would be enough 
time between the consultation on 22 November 2019 and the CETV deadline of 31 
December 2019, to provide the advice. Mr E was told by Origen that there would be 
enough time.
Mr E next had contact with Origen during the telephone consultation on 22 November 
2019. During that call, the adviser told him that his pension scheme hadnt provided 
Origen with all the pension information required, and it would need to obtain 
information from the scheme. Mr E was told the advice report would take four weeks 
and was assured this further delay obtaining the information, would not be a problem.
Origen received the information back from the pension scheme on 20 December 2019, 
having requested it on 6 December 2019. The CETV expiry date went by, and in between 
times Mr E heard nothing further from Origen.
Origen produced the advice report and emailed it to Mr E on 20 January 2020. The 
recommendation was not to transfer and to remain in the OPS scheme. The CETV had, in 
any event, expired by then.
Mr E says he tried to get hold of Origen in the week before Christmas, but was not 
able to. He said he later approached the OPS direct to obtain a new CETV. Initially 
the scheme said he would have to pay for the new CETV quotation, but this fee 
was waived. A new CETV was generated on 10 February 2020. The CETV was 
£252,513.09, around £15,740 less. 
The Origen adviser provided written confirmation that Mr E had received regulated 
advice on 26 March 2020. This confirmation enabled Mr E to proceed with his transfer, 
irrespective of this being against Origens recommendation.
Mr E decided to transfer. Initially he transferred his scheme benefits into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). In June 2020, he moved his benefits into a PPS 
with a company Ill refer to as Provider P. He invested in its growth fund.
Mr E complained to Origen on 1 March 2020 about the delay, which he said caused him 
financial loss. He said he always intended to transfer, irrespective of what Origen 
recommended.
In response to his complaint, in July 2020, Origen accepted that there were delays in 
issuing the advice report. However, it said because the recommendation was to remain 
as a member of the OPS, Mr E wouldve suffered no financial loss, if its recommendation 
was followed. However, it offered £350 for the trouble and upset caused by the delays.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service in May 2020. Our investigator looked into it. She 
recommended that it was upheld. In her written view, she set out how to calculate redress. 
In summary, she concluded, that Mr E always intended to transfer. And once hed obtained 
the required regulated advice, he was at liberty to do so, irrespective of whether his adviser 
considered this to be the most suitable option for him or not. She said as he intended to 
transfer, and was not able to do so within the CETV guaranteed period due to Origens 
delays, Origen had caused him to lose out financially.
Mr E accepted our investigators view. Origen didnt. 
Origen said, in summary:
Its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable and reflected the minor customer 
service issues Mr E experienced;
Mr E didnt contact Origen until nearly two weeks after receiving his transfer pack, 
contributing to the delay;
Until the telephone consultation took place, Mr Es circumstances, financial 
objectives and requirements couldnt be established. It was only at this point that Origen realised that further information was needed and so the information couldnt 
have been obtained before; 
The regulator was clear that if insufficient information is held, a recommendation 
shouldnt be made;
Whilst there was a small delay in requesting the second set of information, Origen 
cant be held responsible for the additional delays whilst waiting for information from 
the scheme;
As Origen didnt recommend transferring, the expiry of the CETV was irrelevant in 
terms of the recommended course of action;
Origen has a professional responsibility to recommend the most suitable option. The 
starting point is that giving up valuable benefits from a defined benefit is unlikely to 
be a suitable option;
Origen wasnt required to offer an insistent client process and not all advisory firms 
do. Origen sometimes facilitates this, providing the client can demonstrate a thorough 
understanding of the risks. There is no certainty that Origen wouldve been prepared 
to treat Mr E as an insistent client and assist him to proceed with his transfer.
Given that agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Es complaint now comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to decide is whether Mr E missed out on the higher CETV because of 
delays caused by Origen. Mr E is not complaining about the advice he received from 
Origen, which recommended that he didnt transfer his benefits. So, I have not looked at 
whether transferring out was a suitable option for Mr E in his particular circumstances. I 
have just looked at the impact of the delays, some of which Origen have accepted.
I agree with our investigator, that Mr Es complaint should be upheld.
As has been said, Mr E had to obtain regulated financial advice prior to being able to 
transfer given the value of his scheme benefits in the OPS, and that he intended to 
give up guaranteed benefits and transfer into a PPS.
Mr E decided to accept Company Hs offer of using Origen as his adviser, with 
Company H meeting the advice fees. But, in that initial telephone call on 10 October 
2019, before he proceeded with Origen, he checked with it that it would be able to 
meet the CETV deadline for providing the advice. He checked again, during the 
telephone consultation in November 2019, and was assured again the deadline could 
be met.
I think this was important to Mr E, because I accept what he says about intending to 
transfer irrespective of what Origen had to say about the suitability of this, in his 
circumstances. I note also that he did look into the cost of appointing an adviser he 
paid for himself. This suggests to me that meeting the CETV deadline was important 
to him. 
I think Mr Es intention to transfer is also evidenced by the fact that even after he 
received Origens report advising him to remain a member of his OPS, and the new 
lower CETV figure, he still proceeded with the transfer. So, I accept what Mr E has said about being prepared to go down the insistent client route, if necessary, if Origen didnt 
recommend he transfer.
Ive taken on board Origens comments about some businesses not being prepared to 
assist insistent clients with transfers. However, once Mr E had confirmation that he had 
received regulated financial advice, he couldve dealt directly with the scheme 
administrators, without Origens assistance. And Company H still had to accept Mr Es 
transfer request, even where it was not recommended. Further, Mr E did transfer out, 
even after Origen advised against it.
Origen has admitted its responsible for at least some of the delay. Ive looked carefully at 
the timings of events, to assess Origens full responsibility here. As mentioned by our 
investigator, its not uncommon when dealing with transfers from OPS for information 
requests to made to the scheme during the CETV guarantee period, and prior to the adviser 
being able to make a recommendation. This is something that Origen ought to have taken 
into consideration, when providing Mr E with the assurances it did about being able to meet 
the 31 December 2019 deadline. 
Its clear Mr E had a preliminary discussion with Origen in October 2019. Had it been 
identified then, that some of the paperwork required had not been supplied by the scheme, 
then its possible that couldve been followed up at that time. That way, by the time of the 
telephone consultation in November, this paperwork probably wouldve been available. I 
think if Origen was prepared to give Mr E an assurance that the advice could be provided on 
time, then it shouldve been reasonably confident that it either had the information needed, 
or could obtain it from the scheme in time.
Origen requested a copy of the immediate transfer quote/transfer pack on 22 November 
2019. This is fairly standard information and its not clear to me why this couldnt have been 
asked for before the telephone consultation. A response was received on 29 November 
2019 from the scheme. On 6 December 2019, Origen asked for further information about the 
scheme benefits. The scheme provided this information on 20 December 2019. I havent 
been told by Origen that it was pressing the scheme for this information in the interim, given 
the expiry date of the CETV and the assurances it had given Mr E. Nor have I been told that 
it contacted Mr E to make him aware of this two-week delay in obtaining information from the 
scheme. I note that Origen didnt contact Mr E again before the CETV expired. Further, had 
the report recommended transferring to the PPS, another CETV wouldve had to be obtained 
in any event, to enable the transfer to go ahead, as by the time Origen issued its report the 
CETV deadline had expired. 
Overall, I am satisfied that had Origen provided its advice report in a timely way, prior to 
the 31 December 2019 CETV window expiring, Mr E wouldve gone on to transfer with 
the higher transfer value being used. My view is that these delays led to Mr E losing out 
financially.
Origen offered Mr E £350 for the trouble and upset caused due to its delays. I think this 
is a reasonable amount for his non-financial loss, for his trouble and upset. Its in line 
with other awards made by this service. So my award relates to Mr Es financial loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation for Mr Es loss, my aim is to put him as 
close as possible to the position he would probably now be in but for the delays.
I think Mr E would have transferred out of the OPS with the higher guaranteed transfer 
value being used. But as well as receiving around £15,740 less on transfer, Mr E has also missed out on the growth he would have received from having this additional 
amount invested in his pension fund.
To fairly and reasonably compensate Mr E for this loss, taking into account how he 
went on to invest his pension fund following the transfer, Origen should:
Calculate the difference between the higher and lower CETV values and pay this 
difference to Mr E by paying it into his pension fund.
Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Origen should pay the difference into Mr Es pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest as set 
out below. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation should not be paid into Mr Es pension fund if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Origen is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Es pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr E would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, if not already paid, Origen should pay Mr E £350 for the trouble 
and upset caused by the delays.
Origen should provide details of the calculation to Mr E in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Origen considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
The 
difference 
between 
the higher 
and lower still existsPruFund 
Growth 
Account 
Series E 
with 23 March
2020date of 
calculationnot applicableCETV 
amountsProvider 
P
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr Es loss is not only the difference in value between the two CETVs but 
also the loss of growth had the transfer happened in a timely fashion.
I have applied the same time scales to what occurred after the transfer. Mr E 
didnt  immediately invest the funds and I have taken that into account.
It took 12 weeks from the date of advice to invest the funds with 
Provider P
To keep matters simple, I have assumed the date of advice as 31 December 2019.
My decision
For the reasons explained I uphold Mr Es complaint and order Origen Financial Services 
Limited  to pay Mr E fair compensation as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman