DRN-3936960
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the way that Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with some disputed 
transactions.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss Ls credit card account was used for a series of cash withdrawals, which 
Miss L later disputed.
Sainsburys did refund the disputed transactions in the end. However, Miss L has 
complained about the time they took, about how they handled a call, about them not 
providing information shed asked for in good time, and about them not closing her account 
beforehand or blocking the payments. She explained they caused her some real distress 
and anxiety.
Sainsburys refunded the disputed payments and related interest and charges, and they 
removed any related late payment markers from Miss Ls credit file. They also accidentally 
removed some genuine arrears markers from before the incident, over-refunded Miss L by 
£189.57, and waived her genuine outstanding balance. They agreed to let Miss L keep that 
extra money. They accepted theyd got some things wrong, and offered her an additional 
£175 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought Sainsburys had already made 
a fair offer to resolve things. Miss L didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account everything that both sides have said and provided. 
Though I will focus my decision on what Ive found to be the key points.
I should explain first that our service is not the regulator. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) are the financial services regulator, and its the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) who oversee data protection issues. So while I understand that Miss L would like to 
improve the way that Sainsburys work, I dont regulate the way they do things and cant 
change their processes across the board. Similarly, while I understand Miss L would like 
Sainsburys to have action brought against them for what she considers to be data protection 
breaches, thats not within my remit either. Our service isnt here to issue fines or to punish 
businesses  were here to resolve individual complaints informally.
First and foremost, my main concern is that Miss L has not lost out because of what 
happened. I appreciate this was a most difficult situation for her, and Im grateful to Miss L 
for being open and candid with us about it. Im glad to see that the disputed payments have 
all been refunded, along with any resulting interest and fees, and the related late payment 
markers were removed from her credit file.
Indeed, I can see that Sainsburys refunded more than they were supposed to, and also 
cleared the small balance which Miss L genuinely owed. And they also accidentally removed 
some negative markers from her credit file that were from genuine arrears shed run up 
before the disputed payments. Theyve agreed not to undo any of that, which seems more 
than fair for Miss L.
I do appreciate why Miss L feels Sainsburys should have blocked the disputed payments as 
they were happening. But the payments were made with her genuine card, and the correct 
PIN, in her local area. She had made large withdrawals before, and these withdrawals were 
substantially under her limit, with significant gaps of up to several days between them. So 
they did not fit a normal pattern of fraud, where a fraudster would generally try to take as 
much money as possible as quickly as possible. Further, Sainsburys were sending Miss L 
her regular statements, and they also sent her a text in the February about the spending, but 
they werent told anything was wrong at the time. So I dont think Sainsburys had sufficient 
reason to block her account. And even if I did, the main thing that would mean is that Id hold 
Sainsburys responsible for the payments and require them to give a refund  which they 
have now already done anyway.
Similarly, I understand Miss L recalls closing her account beforehand, and I accept that she 
may well have intended to do so. But there is no record of Miss L asking Sainsburys to close 
this account beforehand. And she had an outstanding balance, so she wouldnt have been 
able to close it until that was paid anyway. So I dont think Sainsburys were at fault for 
keeping the account open. And similar to the above, even if I did think Sainsburys shouldve 
closed the account, that would mainly mean Id hold them liable for the resulting payments 
and tell them to refund them  which theyve already done.
I appreciate why Miss L may have felt distressed at being pursued for payment here. I do 
agree with her that Sainsburys took some substantial time to resolve things, and to send her 
some information shed asked for. Sainsburys have also accepted this, and accepted that 
they didnt handle a phone call as well as they could have. Im sorry to hear about the 
distress and anxiety that Miss L felt from Sainsburys management of things.
As I mentioned before, Im not able to change the way Sainsburys does things, though 
I appreciate why Miss L thought to ask for this. I also think its reasonable they didnt give 
Miss L a copy of their processes, as thats sensitive information, though again I do 
appreciate why she may have wanted this.
Instead, when a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
recognise what they got wrong and the impact it had on that customer. When it comes to the 
amounts, its worth bearing in mind that  as I mentioned before  we not here to fine or 
punish businesses.Here, Ive kept in mind that on top of refunding the disputed payments, interest and fees, and 
removing the negative markers from Miss Ls credit file, Sainsburys also removed some 
additional negative markers by mistake, and have agreed not to re-add them. And they 
refunded an extra £189.57 to Miss L on top of what they should have, as well as waiving her 
genuine balance of £1.95, which theyve agreed not to take back. Then on top of that, 
theyve offered her an additional £175 compensation. That brings their total offer to £366.52. 
We have guidelines about levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with 
those. Taking everything into account, I think Sainsburys have already made a fair offer to 
Miss L to put things right in her case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Sainsburys Bank Plc have already made a fair offer to 
resolve Miss Ls complaint. I think they should pay her the offered compensation, if theyve 
not done so already. I do not make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman