DRN-3673994
The complaint
Ms H and Mr W have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
declined to pre-authorise the cost of medical treatment for their pet dog on the ground that 
the treatment is for a pre-existing medical condition and so excluded from their policy.
What happened
Ms H and Mr W became the owners of a rescue dog, who Ill refer to as G, on 22 April 
2021. 
G had previously been checked by a vet at the rescue centre on 30 March 2021. The vets 
notes from that visit recorded L ear still a bit tender  apply Osumia (sic) to both. G was 
given a first vaccination.
Two weeks later a veterinary nurse gave G his second vaccination, and noted ears fine, no 
concerns. At a further visit on 9 June 2021, the vets notes record eyes ears NAD.
Ms H and Mr W insured G with RSA on 22 May 2021.
On 15 June, G attended the vet again, whose notes record:
 O reports occasionally biting his feet and had an ear infection when owner first got 
himDiscussed other possible causes of scooting such as pruritis, owner will monitor 
(Gs anal glands having been checked and found to be empty).
At a further visit on 8 July 2021 the vet noted:
 still pruritic, not as bad as before, moulting a lot, not chewing feet but rubbing his back 
endskin very mild inflammation discussed unlikely AG (anal gland) related, can rule out 
allergies with apoquel trial might need it long term or change to cytopoint.
Because of issues that G also had with his anal glands and dietary and stomach issues, it 
wasnt until October/November 2021 that Gs vet made a diagnosis of atopy.
As the cost of Gs future treatment was above the threshold stated in his policy, he applied to 
RSA for pre-authorisation for the cost of his treatment.
RSA reviewed Gs veterinary history and declined to authorise payment for Gs future 
treatment for skin allergies. Its own in-house vet believed that the vets notes on 30 March 
2021 were the first clinical signs of a pre-existing skin allergy which manifested itself in ear 
issues, biting of feet and scooting. RSAs in-house vet stated:
The most common primary cause of otitis externa in dogs is atopy, and otitis externa can 
be the only sign of atopy. Osurnia is a long acting ear gel, so the fact that [G] didn't have 
any issues with his ears 2 weeks later, is not relevant, and it does not exclude atopy as 
the cause of otitis. It is suspected that [G] suffers with atopy based on the clinical 
presentation (and potentially breed predisposition) and the otitis noted in march is most 
likely the sign of atopy.
In response to RSAs rejection of his request for pre-authorisation Mr W provided a letter 
from the vet who examined G on 30 March 2021. This included:
I identified mild ear discomfort in the left ear and applied Osunia to both earsThere 
was no other signs of skin disease nor any other health issues at this time. In my opinion 
this dog was not exhibiting any symptoms of atopic dermatitis or of any other skin disease 
at this time.
Mr W also provided a letter from a colleague of the vet who had examined G on 9 June 2021 
which stated that the vet on that occasion had conducted a thorough clinical examination of 
G and had found him to be in good health and free from clinical disease.
RSA maintained its view that G had displayed clinical signs of skin allergies on 30 March 
2021, before the inception of the policy, and therefore his condition was pre-existing and 
thereby excluded from cover. It referred to the following term stated in the Insurance Product 
Information Document and in the policy itself:
We will not pay for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet 
were aware of before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions, 
they are:
signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses;
existing illnesses or injuries;
existing physical abnormalities;
existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health 
issues or injuries;
illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities
Ms H and Mr W were unhappy with RSAs refusal to pre-authorise the ongoing future cost of 
treatment for Gs allergies and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that RSA hadnt acted unfairly. He noted that RSAs vet had 
stated that the most common primary cause of otitis externa in dogs is atopy, and otitis 
externa can be the only sign of atopy. He noted that G had shown other symptoms of atopy 
since March 2021, and that neither vet who had examined G had said that his ear condition 
wasnt linked to allergies.
Ms H and Mr W dont accept our investigators view and have asked that their complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Hs and Mr Ws complaint. I know this isnt the 
decision they were hoping for, but Ill give my reasons.I should start by saying that Im not a vet and have to rely upon the information Im provided 
with by both parties. Ive also where necessary undertaken my own on-line research. I have 
to come to a view as to whether RSA has been fair and reasonable in its consideration of ms 
Hs and Mr Ws request for pre-authorisation.
Its standard practice for pet insurance policies to exclude cover for pre-existing conditions 
unless these have been declared in advance. Its then up to the insurer if they are prepared 
to insure the specific condition and if so, on what terms and for what premium. It is also 
common for health conditions to exist before a policy is taken out which are undiagnosed. 
But if at policy inception there are signs and symptoms present of an illness that is only later 
diagnosed, or an illness is medically linked to an existing illness, that is regarded as a pre-
existing condition.
The vet who examined G on 30 March 2021 made very brief notes. Whilst he didnt mention 
that he thought G had otitis externa, he noted that G had ear discomfort and prescribed 
Osurnia, My enquiries on-line informed me that this is a treatment for otitis externa. I 
therefore consider it reasonable to assume that G was displaying signs of this. 
My enquiries have also informed me as follows:
The most important primary cause of otitis is allergy. Allergic triggers include atopic 
dermatitis which seem to be the most common, being the primary cause of otitis in up to 
75% of cases.
Itchiness is the main symptom of atopy, demonstrated by scratching, excessive licking, 
chewing or rubbing of the affected parts of the body. The most commonly affected areas 
are face, ears, paws, wrists (carpus) and ankle (hock) joints and the underside of the 
belly.
55% of dogs with atopic dermatitis may develop otitis externa and otitis externa may be 
the only clinical sign of atopic dermatitis.
In the absence of any evidence that there is no connection between Gs presentation in 
March 2021 and his later diagnosis of atopic dermatitis, I consider it more likely than not that 
the conditions are linked, and that the ear condition for which G was prescribed Osurnia in 
March 2021, presumed to be otitis externa, was a sign or symptom of as yet undiagnosed 
atopy, which is the most important primary cause of otitis externa. 
Mr W has said that G displayed no signs of atopy during the period March to June 2021. But 
Gs vet did record on 9 and 15 June 2021 that G had been scooting, which, as well as biting 
his feet, is an indicator of atopy. Otitis externa can be the only sign of atopy, which could 
account for the comment from the vet who examined G on 9 June that G was in good health 
and free from clinical disease. That was an observation as to Gs presentation at that time.
That observation doesnt mean that there was no underlying condition, just that it wasnt 
manifesting itself at that time.
 
I therefore consider that it is reasonable for RSA to have relied upon the view of its vet that 
the condition for which G was treated on 30 March 2021 was connected to the atopic 
dermatitis with which he presented again later in the year. I dont consider that RSA has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in making this assessment and declining to pre-authorise the 
treatment for Gs allergies on the ground that they pre-existed the inception of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Hs and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman