DRN-3957743
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund over £211,000 he lost 
to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
It isnt immediately clear that Mr R has fallen victim to a scam here, as there arent any FCA 
or IOSCO warnings about btcusdu.net to be found, although I acknowledge that the 
investment bares many of the common hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam. But even 
accepting that Mr R has likely fallen victim to a scam here (rather than losing his money in a 
high-risk investment), Im not persuaded that Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held liable 
for his loss in any event. Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr R authorised the disputed payments he made from his Barclays 
account to his crypto wallet (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer). The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Barclays, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Barclays have accepted that some of the payments were unusual given that they did trigger 
the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending further enquiry 
 such as those made on 9 June 2022. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank 
went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions.
When Barclays spoke to Mr R about the payments he was making, it asked him whether 
anyone had contacted him and recommended that he use any platforms to do certain 
payments, to which he said they hadnt. Mr R says he wasnt given a cover story or told to lie 
to the scammer. But what he told the bank was untrue, given he had been contacted by a 
broker who was telling him to make payments to the platform btcusdu.net via his crypto 
wallet. Barclays also asked on more than one occasion whether he was dealing with any 
other third parties or brokers. Mr R consistently said that no one else was involved, and also 
said that no one else had access to his crypto account, both of which were untrue as well. 
So, if he hadnt been told to lie to Barclays by the scammer, its not clear why he wasnt 
honest and forthcoming with the circumstances of his investment. 
Having considered the questions Barclays asked during its intervention  as well as the 
responses given by Mr R  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank could 
have done to have prevented the scam. Mr R convinced Barclays that he was making the 
payments entirely of his own volition and that nobody else was involved. And it was based 
upon the answers he gave that the bank was satisfied the payments werent likely being 
made as part of a scam. I think Barclays asked appropriate questions of Mr R, which were 
ultimately led by the answers he gave. If he had answered the questions accurately and said 
he was in contact with a third-party broker, then I accept it would have been incumbent on 
Barclays to maintain suspicion about the payment and probe further into the circumstances. 
But seeing as Mr R was not forthcoming with these details, I dont think there was any failing 
on the banks part to probe any further, as he had confirmed on several occasions that no 
one else was involved. 
Barclays also warned Mr R that there are scams where victims will be told to purchase 
Bitcoin and forward it on to third parties, with promises of doubling or tripling their returns, 
but they will lose their money altogether. Mr R acknowledged this and, despite this being the 
very scenario he was in, he wanted to continue with making the payment.  
As a result, assuming that Mr R has indeed been scammed here, I dont consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for his loss, because it seems more likely than not 
that he would have always made the payment to the scammers irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank. 
Even if Mr R had been honest with Barclays, it doesnt appear that it wouldve been able to 
find any warnings or adverse information about the platform he was investing into in any 
event, and neither would Mr R have found anything either if he had carried out further 
research. He had also received over £90,000 in credits back from his investment with the 
scammer, so he wouldnt have had any cause to believe that he wouldnt be able to withdraw 
his profits later down the line either. So, Im not persuaded Barclays could have reasonably 
determined that he was being scammed in these circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to try and recover the lost 
funds. However, in this instance, the receiving account Mr R paid was his own crypto wallet. 
We know the money was transferred out from there to the scammer, so there would have 
been no reasonable prospect of Barclays being able to recover this from the beneficiary 
bank. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr R, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Barclays can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman