DRN-2228508
The complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr P between
January 2014 and August 2018. A summary of Mr Ps borrowing history is below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
RepaymentDeferrals
1 14/01/2014 02/05/2014 1 £300.00 £405.00 3
2 16/05/2014 08/08/2014 1 £550.00 £715.00 2
3 22/08/2014 31/10/2014 3 £400.00 £253.33 0
Break in lending
4 19/08/2018 14/03/2019 6 £700.00 £262.26 1
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have
been given to Mr P as the repayment cost for loan 2 was a significant portion of his income 
and by loan 3 it looked like Mr P was becoming reliant on these types of loan.
Mr Lender disagreed and said loan 2 looked affordable based on the income and outgoing 
information that had been gathered about Mr P. It also said Mr P opted to spread the 
payments over a longer period for loan 3. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
There was a significant break in Mr Ps borrowing from Mr Lender. There was a gap of 
nearly four years between loans 3 and 4. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view 
this gap as an indication that Mr Ps finances had stabilised. So, I will look at Mr Ps 
borrowing in two separate chains.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 1 and 4. Mr P didnt respond to 
the adjudicators explanation. As there appears to no longer be a dispute with these loans, I 
wont be making any further findings on them.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the complaint 
about loans 2 and 3. Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mr P when he applied for his second loan. 
This included verifying his employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. 
I can see that the checks detailed above were carried out. However, I think if Mr Lender had 
properly considered the information it had about Mr Ps financial situation and the lending, I 
think it would have seen that Mr P was not able to take on this borrowing.
I say this because Mr P was borrowing £550, which was due to be repaid in one instalment 
plus interest. This meant that Mr P would be repaying £715 from his declared income of
£1,600. The repayment represented a significant proportion of Mr Ps income and I think          Mr Lender ought to have realised this and the potential for Mr P to struggle to make the 
repayment. Given Mr Ps income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of     
Mr P would struggle to meet his commitment not just under this loan. I think this was proven 
when Mr P deferred the repayment of the full amount of this loan twice.
Ive noted Mr Lenders comments about the loan appearing to be affordable, but given that 
Mr P struggled to repay his first loan on time (I can see he deferred repayment three times) 
and loan 2 was for a larger amount, Mr Lender ought to have done proportionate checks on 
this basis 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3 I say 
this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr P was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr P had taken out three loans in eight months. So,
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr Ps first loan was for £300 and loan 3 was for £400. At this point Mr Lender 
ought to have known that it was unlikely Mr P was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need.
Over the eight months Mr P had been indebted to Mr Lender, he had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing at loan 3 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period 
of time.
The length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 2 and 3 ;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Ps credit file;
any information recorded about loan 3 is adverse. So, all entries about this 
loan be removed from Mr Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman