DRN-1951287
 
The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a £175 loan with MYJAR in August 2018. The loan was scheduled to be repaid 
in six instalments but I understand it is still outstanding.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr S didnt 
agree, so his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Im afraid I dont have much to add to what our adjudicator said to Mr S. I can see that Mr S 
is also unhappy about the loan balance MYJAR is reporting on his credit file  but thats a 
separate issue from Mr Ss complaint about irresponsible lending and is something Mr S will 
need to raise with MYJAR as a new complaint should he wish to pursue this.
When responding to the adjudication, Mr S didnt have much else to say on the issue of 
irresponsible lending. From the information Ive seen, I dont think MYJAR lent to him 
irresponsibly. Based on what Mr S told MYJAR about his income and expenditure it was 
reasonable for MYJAR to think the loan repayments would be affordable for him. And the 
credit check MYJAR carried out didnt highlight any significant issues with Mr Ss existing 
debts. 
For completeness, Ill add that Ive seen what Mr S said about his personal circumstances 
and was sorry to read of what happened. I wont set out what he told us here to protect his 
privacy. But MYJAR didnt know about these circumstances and so it isnt something which it 
couldve taken into account when deciding whether to lend to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman