DRN-4191405
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S applied for a loan with Lloyds. Lloyds approved the application and gave 
Mr S a loan for £12,000.
In January 2020 Mr S applied for a second loan. Lloyds approved the application and gave 
Mr S a loan for £7,500.
Mr S complained that Lloyds had lent to him irresponsibly.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Lloyds had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks before lending to Mr S and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that if Lloyds had carried out proper checks it wouldve discovered 
that between November 2019 and January 2020, he hadnt had any income because hed 
lost his job. He said hed had to take out the loans to help with payments to his overdraft and 
credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend. Lloyds needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr S could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Loan 1
Ive looked at the checks carried out by Lloyds. Lloyds gathered information about Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. Mr S declared income of £2650 per month and housing costs of 
£300 per month. Lloyds took Mr Ss essential living costs into account and carried out a 
credit check which showed that he had existing consumer credit commitments of around 
£791 per month. Using all of the information it had obtained, Lloyds calculated that Mr Ss 
monthly disposable income was around £1125. Lloyds decided that this was sufficient for Mr 
S to be able to afford the loan repayments.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Lloyds were reasonable and 
proportionate. There was nothing in the information gathered from the checks which 
wouldve given Lloyds cause for concern, or which wouldve necessitated further checks.
Im also persuaded that the lending decision was fair. This is because the information from 
the checks showed that Mr S had sufficient monthly disposable income to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. There was nothing in the information gathered to suggest that Mr 
S was struggling to repay his debts or that he was overly reliant on credit.  
For these reasons I dont think Loan 1 was lent irresponsibly.
Loan 2
Ive looked at the checks carried out by Lloyds. Lloyds gathered information about Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. Mr S declared income of £2550 per month and housing costs of 
£345 per month. Lloyds took Mr Ss essential living costs into account and carried out a 
credit check which showed that he had existing consumer credit commitments of around 
£588 per month. Using all of the information it had obtained, Lloyds calculated that Mr Ss 
monthly disposable income was around £1133. Lloyds decided that this was sufficient for Mr 
S to be able to afford the loan repayments.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Lloyds were reasonable and 
proportionate. There was nothing in the information gathered from the checks which 
wouldve given Lloyds cause for concern, or which wouldve necessitated further checks.
Im also persuaded that the lending decision was fair. This is because the information from 
the checks showed that Mr S had sufficient monthly disposable income to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. There was nothing in the information gathered to suggest that Mr 
S was struggling to repay his debts or that he was overly reliant on credit.  
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said. I understand that he thinks that Lloyds shouldve 
looked at his bank statements. However, as Ive already said, Im satisfied that the checks 
carried out by Lloyds were reasonable and proportionate. I dont think there was any reason 
for Lloyds to have caried out further checks at the time such as (for example) looking at bank 
statements.
Mr S has made reference to his overdraft and his credit card, both of which I understand are 
held with Lloyds. These facilities werent specifically raised by Mr S when he first raised a 
complaint with Lloyds. So Lloyds hasnt investigated these and I havent commented on 
them in this decision. If Mr S wishes to complaint about the overdraft and/or the credit card 
he should raise this with Lloyds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman