DRN-2550726
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for this complaint.  
summary and background to the complaint
Mr and Mrs M said Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a mortgage in 1992.
BoS didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it said 
Mr and Mrs M had referred the complaint to us too late.   
And BoS also said that it doesnt have to give back any of the commission or profit share Mr 
and Mrs M paid from their policy  because the rules and guidance about this dont apply to 
their complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint about how this policy was sold. And they thought that what BoS had said about 
commission and profit share was right.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
BoS sent its final response on 16 June 2014. So Mr and Mrs M had until 16 December 2014 
to refer their complaint to us. But they didnt do this until June 2019, so the complaint was 
referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. 
BoSs final response letter of June 2014 clearly explains to Mr and Mrs M that they have to 
refer the complaint to this service within six months. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt do so 
because:
BoS was aggressive towards Mr M during a phone call which dissuaded them from 
referring the complaint
They didnt have a full understanding at the time about why the PPI may have been 
mis-sold and the complaint made in 2014 was generic whereas their complaint now 
is based on new information
The original complaint in 2014 was made by Mr M whereas it was Mrs M making the 
complaint now
BoS sent them another letter dated 13 February 2019 (with a covering letter dated 15 
May 2019) which also included referral rights to this service
There was some illness in the family at the time and Mrs M was providing support to 
wider family
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M feel that BoS behaved inappropriately in 2014. However, if 
they had referred their complaint at that time, they wouldnt have had to deal directly with 
BoS again. And it was not necessary for them to have an in-depth understanding of the 
relevant issues, as this service would have looked into all aspects of the sale to determine 
whether the PPI had been mis-sold. It is not a new complaint on the basis that Mrs M has 
now taken charge of it.
The letter that BoS sent in June 2014 was in response to the initial mis-sale complaint. The 
letter that BoS sent in February 2019 was in response to Mr and Mrs M contacting it again. 
At that time BoS maintained its stance on the mis-sale and took the opportunity to address 
the unfair commission and profit share element of the sale which is something that has come 
to the fore since the complaint was first made. The letter expressly says that, because the 
mis-sale issue was responded to in 2014, that this service would not have its permission to 
look at it. Therefore, the referral rights included in the letter pertain solely to the unfair 
commission and profit share issue.
With regard to illness within the family during 2014, I have no doubt that this would have 
been a very difficult time. But that doesnt account for the entire period until the referral was 
finally made. Overall, I am not persuaded that the referral was made at the earliest 
reasonable opportunity.
Having considered what Mr and Mrs M have said about why they couldnt make their referral 
to this service within six months of BoSs final response letter, Im not persuaded that there 
were exceptional circumstances. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the 
complaint was referred to this service outside the strict time limit which I have to apply. This 
means this service has no powers to look at the complaint. So Im sorry that were unable to 
help Mr and Mrs M with their complaint about how this policy was sold.
Finally, as I explained above, BoS has said it doesnt have to pay back any of the 
commission or profit share Mr and Mrs M might have paid with their policy. On the face of it, 
that seems likely to me to be a fair response to this part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Particularly when, as our adjudicator explained, Mr and Mrs Ms credit agreement seems to 
be one the new rules dont apply to  because it wasnt running on 6 April 2008 (their 
mortgage ended in 1997).
But if Mr and Mrs M dont think what the business has said about this is right, they should let 
us know, and tell us why. Well then consider what theyve said and make a final decision on 
this part of the complaint. 
To be clear though, if were asked to make a final decision on what BoS has said about 
commission and profit share, we wont be revisiting the time limit issues Ive decided here.
My decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about how their policy was sold, because it 
was referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits 
was because of exceptional circumstances.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman