DRN-3952963
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt automatically increase the interest rate on 
his Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
In early November 2022 Mr P noticed Sainsburys was offering higher rates of interest on an 
ISA for new customers so gave them a call and they agreed to increase the rate on his 
account.
Mr P complained to Sainsburys saying the terms and conditions arent clear and he was 
unhappy that the rate didnt automatically increase. Sainsburys didnt uphold the complaint 
saying the terms and conditions arent unclear as they say that rates wont automatically 
change to match new rates. 
Remaining unhappy with this explanation Mr P brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the terms and conditions 
were clear that interest rates wont change automatically and there was no obligation for 
Sainsburys to match new customer rates.
Mr P disagreed with this saying that using the word variable about the interest rate on 
account was confusing as the only way to get the rate to increase was to contact 
Sainsburys. He also said Sainsburys should explain up front to customers they needed to 
contact in order to get a better rate.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr P that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service, and no discourtesy is intended. If I 
dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
When opening the account Mr P was given the terms and conditions of the account. In 
section 4 titled Interest under the sub-heading Rates they say We may offer different 
interest rates for new accounts. The interest rate on your account wont automatically 
change to match the new rates. And this is what happened with Mr Ps account.
Because any rates offered on new accounts dont apply to Mr Ps account I dont think 
Sainsburys made any errors. I can of course see why Mr P feels the account should work 
differently however Im satisfied the terms and conditions were applied fairly.
I think its important to say that the Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator and its their 
role to regulate businesses. Our role is to resolve individual disputes and not to tell 
businesses to change their policies or procedures. Mr P has made some suggestions about 
how the description of the account and the terms and conditions might better reflect the 
situation, however this isnt something Im able to tell Sainsburys to do. 
After carefully considering all the information Im satisfied Sainsburys acted fairly and 
reasonably when administering the account and did so in-line with the terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman