DRN-1833043
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Morag Finance) didnt tell her shed 
need to instruct a solicitor to release the charge when she repaid her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs A had an interest-only mortgage with Morag Finance, and in July 2019 she obtained a 
redemption figure and fully repaid it.
On 1 August 2019 Morag Finance wrote to Mrs A, saying
As you may be aware, we currently hold a legal charge over your property as security for 
the loan. As the loan has now been repaid, the security is no longer required. In order for 
us to release our security we will require you to instruct a solicitor to prepare the 
appropriate documentation necessary to discharge the charge. Please note we will not 
take steps to release the charge unless and until the appropriate documentation is 
received from your solicitor.
Unhappy with that, Mrs A complained to Morag Finance. It explained why a solicitor was 
needed, and offered £50 compensation for not making Mrs A aware of the requirement when 
she phoned to discussing repaying her mortgage.
Our investigator said Morag Finances offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A 
didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was a simple human error that meant Mrs A wasnt told when she 
phoned to discuss repaying her mortgage that shed need to instruct a solicitor to prepare 
the paperwork to remove the mortgage charge. 
When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place 
the consumer in the position they would be in if the correct information had been given. 
If the correct information had been given, Mrs A would have been told slightly earlier than 
she was that shed need to instruct (and pay) a solicitor. Mrs A could never have been in the 
position where she didnt need to instruct (and pay) a solicitor.
Morag Finance doesnt have the required permission from the Land Registry to electronically 
discharge the mortgage itself, therefore if Mrs A wants the charge removed shell need to 
instruct (and pay) a solicitor to prepare the paperwork to do so.
The only thing Morag Finance did wrong here was not telling Mrs A that shed need to 
instruct (and pay) a solicitor when she phoned to enquire about redeeming her mortgage. 
The actual need for Mrs A to instruct (and pay) a solicitor isnt due to a mistake by 
Morag Finance. 
The £50 Morag Finance has offered Mrs A isnt supposed to be a payment towards the cost 
of a solicitor as that was a cost that was always due, so its irrelevant to this complaint that 
the cost Mrs A has been quoted exceeds that amount. Mrs A would always have incurred 
the cost of a solicitor when she repaid this mortgage, the £50 is simply a gesture in 
recognition of the fact Morag Finance didnt tell her about the need for a solicitor when she 
phoned it to discuss redeeming the mortgage.
If nothing had gone wrong Mrs A would have been told on the phone when she enquired 
about redeeming her mortgage that shed need to instruct (and pay) a solicitor to remove the 
charge. She would then have incurred the cost of the solicitor. The only difference here is 
that Mrs A wasnt told that when she phoned so shes been offered £50 compensation for 
that omission. Either way the cost of the solicitor would still have been incurred by Mrs A.
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the 
impact of a business actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation 
weve made in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £50 compensation 
already offered by Morag Finance is more than fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Morag Finance 
made a fair offer. I leave it to Mrs A to decide if  on reflection  she now wishes to accept 
that directly with Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Morag Finance).
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my 
decision before 22 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman