DRN-2844611
The complaint
Mr I complains that Vauxhall Finance plc have applied unfair charges for damage to his 
account after he returned the car he had acquired through a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
Mr I entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a new car in May 2017. In 2020 he 
returned the car and was charged over £1,800 for damage. He says he wasnt responsible 
for the damage and that no photographs or other evidence was provided to show the 
damage was present when he returned the car.
Vauxhall Finance issued its final response letter dated 17 August 2020. It said that the return 
process had been handled correctly. It reviewed the charges that had been applied and 
agreed to some being removed, reducing the total amount for Mr I to pay to £1,373. It said 
the remaining charges had been applied in line with the guidelines and Mr Is agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the damage identified in the 
inspection report fell outside the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
guidelines for fair wear and tear and so he didnt think that Vauxhall Finance was wrong to 
apply the charges. He noted Mr Is comments that the damage could have been caused after 
he returned the car, but our investigator thought, on a balance of probabilities, it was more 
likely than not that the damage was caused while Mr I had use of it.
Mr I didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he wasnt responsible for the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, when considering charges for damage, we consider the 
requirements set out in the agreement and also the relevant industry guidelines. Vauxhall 
Finance removed certain charges and I have considered whether the remaining charges 
have been fairly applied.
Mr Is agreement included information about the care of the vehicle. The agreement set out 
that the car needed to be kept in good condition with the bodywork and interior free from 
damage and require no refurbishment before retail sale. The car was inspected in July 2020, 
over three years after Mr I entered into the agreement to acquire it and it is reasonable to 
accept that there would be some wear and tear. Because of this, I have considered the 
damage recorded in the inspection report against the industry guidelines provided by the 
BVRLA for fair wear and tear. 
The charges include several charges for damage to the interior of the car. I have looked at 
the photographs provided as part of the inspection report and the staining and damage to 
the interior is shown. The guidelines require the interior to be clean with no scratches, tears, 
dents or staining. Based on the evidence, I think that the damage noted to the interior of the 
car falls outside of fair wear and tear.
The guidelines also provide information about what is acceptable regarding the exterior of 
the car, that is the bodywork and the wheels. Our investigator set out the details of these as 
the guidelines provide information about the extent of damage that is acceptable. Having 
looked at the photographs provided in the inspection report I agree that the damage to the 
body work and wheels falls outside of the guidelines for acceptable wear and tear.
Overall, I think the remaining charges relate to damage that falls outside of acceptable wear 
and tear and therefore I do not find I can say they have been unfairly applied.
I note Mr Is comments about when the damage occurred. The car was returned on 29 June 
2020 and the inspection took place on 2 July 2020 and the car hadnt been driven in 
between. This gave very limited opportunity for damage post return. Considering this and 
having looked at the nature of the damage and that this is present across several areas of 
both the interior and exterior of the car, I find it more likely than not that the damage 
occurred while the car was in use rather than after the car was returned. 
As I do not find that I can say the damage charges are being applied unfairly, I do not find I 
can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Vauxhall Finance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman