DRN-2107371
The complaint
Mr K has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax wont refund 51 cash machine 
withdrawals he didnt make or authorise in 2014 to 2015.
What happened
Mr K complained to Halifax in 2015 about two lots of disputed transactions. Halifax refunded 
£200 in April and £250 in May 2015. They omitted to refund a further two £250 transactions 
which they did in 2019. At that time they also wrote off Mr Ks outstanding debt and updated 
his credit record.
Mr K went to a local advice bureau for assistance in 2019. He wrote to Halifax about a 
number of other disputed cash machine withdrawals. Mr K also came to our service.
Halifax told Mr K as all the transactions he was disputing had taken place more than 
13 months before hed complained, they werent required to refund these. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence and came to the same conclusion. He explained to Mr K that the 
Payment Services Regulations and Halifaxs own terms and conditions made it explicit that 
Halifax didnt need to do anything more.
Mr K re-emphasised his vulnerability and his present health situation which had all been 
exacerbated by his severe distress over what had happened. He asked an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply and this is specifically relevant in Mr Ks case. As our 
investigator showed, in his view of 20 March 2020, both the PSRs and Halifaxs terms and 
conditions confirm Mr K is only obliged to be refunded if hed notified Halifax less than 13 
months after the transactions he was disputing.
Ive seen Mr Ks statements for 2014 and 2015. I believe he is disputing 51 cash machine 
transactions which amount to £2,780 in total. These were made using a number of different 
cards that were all sent to Mr K. I also know he disputed a number of transactions in 2015 so 
I dont dispute Halifaxs view that Mr K was aware of the transactions on his account at this 
time.
Therefore I believe Mr K had an opportunity to know the status of his account and what 
transactions may have been in dispute back in 2015. He didnt request refunds for 51 
transactions until 2019 and I believe this came too late for Halifax to refund him.
I appreciate how upsetting this must be for him. I can reassure him Ive taken into 
consideration his current health to come to this conclusion. But overall I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman