DRN-3919085
The complaint
Mr H complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) made a mistake 
when preparing information relating to his pension policy for use in a divorce settlement. 
Mr H believed that he suffered a material financial loss from this mistake, namely incurring a 
future tax liability and making a higher cash offer to his ex-wife in relation to his divorce. He 
would like to be compensated the sum of £20,000 for this loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in December 2022, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
Mr H and his ex-wife were in the process of negotiating a divorce settlement in 2018. In July 
2018, a consultancy firm was preparing a report on the value of the matrimonial assets held 
within pension funds. On 18 July 2018, Aegon wrote to the consultancy about the policy Mr 
H had with them, estimating a CETV of c.£32,000 and stating that Mr H would be able to 
take the full value of the policy in tax free cash on reaching the age of 55.
Based on this information, Mr H decided to retain the whole of this policy as part of the 
divorce settlement, and paid his ex-wife £50,000 in cash, part of which was to reflect the 
value of this policy. Mr H states that it was always his intention to take the full amount of the 
policy in tax free cash when he reached the age of 55.
In 2021, Mr H contacted Aegon to establish whether the information relating to his ability to 
take the whole fund as tax free cash was correct. Aegon looked into the policy and informed 
Mr H in April 2021 that it had discovered that it had made a mistake, which meant rather 
than 100% tax free cash, Mr H would only be eligible to take 57% of the fund tax free, paying 
tax on the remainder.
Mr H complained to Aegon, which apologised for the mistake and offered him £750 
compensation in June 2021. Mr H felt that this was inadequate, and believed that if he had 
been given the correct information at the time he would have negotiated a different divorce 
settlement with his ex-wife, in which he would have transferred the policy to his ex-wife and 
retained more cash himself. Mr H estimates his material loss at c£20,000.
Mr H was not satisfied by Aegons offer and instead asked for the case to be referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and the 
reasons why I thought £750 was fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. Mr 
H responded, explaining why he was still of the view that Aegon should pay him substantially 
more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I stated:
I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator and dont intend to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. However, my reasons arent quite the same as our investigators, so I think it is 
fair to explain that to both Mr H and Aegon and give them the chance to respond before I 
make my final decision. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr H, so Ill explain why.
There is no question that Aegon made a mistake when providing the information to the 
consultancy firm producing the divorce report, so the issue here is whether Mr H suffered a 
financial loss arising from this mistake.
There are two main elements to Mr Hs claim of financial loss; the tax liability he will incur 
when he takes his pension fund, and his contention that he lost the opportunity to make a 
different and less generous divorce settlement with his ex-wife.
Taking the issue of the tax liability first, although Aegon clearly made a mistake in providing 
incorrect information to Mr H, this does not change the fact that he would always have had a 
tax liability in respect of this policy. Asking Aegon to pay the tax he would always have had 
to pay would put Mr H in a better position than he otherwise would have been in, which 
wouldnt be fair. That said, the distress and inconvenience that resulted from Mr H thinking 
he would avoid tax should be acknowledged. I cover this below. But I cant see that Mr H has 
suffered a financial loss in this respect.
Turning now to the issue of whether the incorrect information led to Mr H incurring a financial 
loss in respect of his divorce settlement, I can see that Aegons error led to an overstatement 
of the total marital assets that were included in the divorce settlement. If Aegon had provided 
correct information, Mr H would have been able to assess the value of his pension based on 
the knowledge that he would, in future, be paying tax on a portion of that pension. Valuing 
that pension still wouldnt have been easy given it would have depended on when he was 
going to take his pension, what tax rate would apply, the value of his protected tax free cash 
at that point and investment returns. But, by way of illustration, paying tax on 43% of the 
cash equivalent transfer of £31,983 (which would be a reasonable starting point at the time 
of the divorce) would result in tax of approximately £5,500 assuming Mr H were a 40% tax 
payer at the time of taking benefits and approximately £2,750 if he were a basic rate tax 
payer  which I consider to be more likely. 
I think it is reasonable to assume that this increase in the overall size of the marital assets 
should be divided between Mr H and his ex-wife, so the effect upon the divorce settlement 
would be essentially half of that amount for each party, or c.£1,375.
Looking now at the effect of this reduction in the total marital assets on the divorce 
settlement, its not clear to me that it would have had any significant effect. There is some 
evidence that the settlement was not based upon a precise division of assets but was a 
negotiated settlement. Given this, and the relatively small effect of the tax liability on the 
overall value of the marital assets, I dont think it is reasonable to expect that Mrs H would 
have accepted less than the £50,000 cash element of the settlement as a result.
Mr H also contends that he would have structured his settlement offer to his ex-wife in a 
different way if the consultancy preparing the divorce asset report had been given the correct 
information by Aegon. He states that he would have transferred the pension policy to his wife 
and reduced the cash element of the settlement by some £20,000. Its also unclear to me 
why Mr H would have considered giving up this pension as it still had valuable protected tax 
free cash which would have been lost if he had transferred the policy. The biggest beneficiary in that scenario would have been HMRC. Also, if Aegon had given correct 
information from the start, Mr H wouldnt have been led to believe that he could take his 
entire policy tax free. So I think its reasonable to assume that it would more than likely have 
been a valuable asset to retain in the divorce settlement.
But even if I assume Mr H would have wanted to transfer the policy, it seems unlikely that his 
ex-wife would have been amenable to such an offer. I believe that it is reasonable to assume 
that his ex-wife may well have preferred to take a payment in cash rather than a pension 
asset. I have based this view on the fact that if she took a cash settlement it would be 
entirely tax free and would have given her the ability to use it in any way she chose, whether 
that was to spend it or to invest it some way. If she chose to take the pension and 
transferred it into her existing pension as Mr H suggested, she would lose the ability to 
spend some or all of it immediately and only be eligible for 25% of its value tax free when 
she chose to take its benefits.
Another factor leading me toward this view is as far as the substitution of the pension policy 
for a lower cash settlement is concerned, this should have been a balanced exchange, 
which would have left neither Mr H or his ex-wife better nor worse off. As I have explained 
above, the transfer of a pension instead of cash can be seen to have less value to his ex-
wife and I would expect that she would have asked for compensation in respect of this, 
leaving Mr H with a lower share of the matrimonial assets. Taking all this into account, I cant 
see that Mr H has suffered a financial loss as a result of the mistake made by Aegon.
Finally, Mr H also referred to the cost of the divorce report that was undertaken by the 
consultancy, and to the fact that its value was compromised by the inaccurate information 
provided by Aegon. While this too may be true to some extent, it seems to me that this report 
would always have been required to arrive at a financial settlement as part of the divorce, 
and would still have retained considerable value in the divorce proceedings, and no 
additional costs for revising the report have been incurred, so again, I dont think its 
reasonable for him to expect additional compensation in respect of this.
In terms of the compensation Aegon has offered Mr H, Aegon clearly fell short of the service 
he could reasonably expect from it and raised his expectations as to the value of the pension 
policy he held with them. It has offered him £750 compensation to reflect this, and I consider 
this to be fair and reasonable in terms of payments made to customers when the level of 
service from their provider has fallen short of what they can reasonably expect.
Mr H did not agree with my provisional decision. He provided some additional information, 
including that the value of his policy had increased from c£32,000 to c£41,000 since the date 
of the divorce report and that it is his belief that his ex-wife would have either accepted the 
transfer of his pension policy or a substantially lower level of cash in the divorce settlement if 
Aegon had not made the mistake about the proportion of tax free cash that Mr H could have 
taken from the policy. 
Overall, I find that the additional information that Mr H has provided does not materially 
change my decision to not uphold his complaint, for the same reasons given in my 
provisional decision.
Essentially, despite the incorrect information provided to Mr H at the time of his divorce, he 
would never have been entitled to take the whole of the policy as tax free cash, and I find it 
unlikely that this would have significantly changed the composition of the divorce settlement. 
Im satisfied that the key points remain the same and have been considered by me in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon should fulfil its offer to pay Mr H the sum of £750 
compensation, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman