DRN-2869099
The complaint
Mr D complains thatt Pastdue Credit Solutions Limited (PCSL) contacted him about a debt 
that is part of a trust deed. Mr D also complains that PCSL placed the account on hold 
despite receiving information that showed it was part of his trust deed. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr D entered into a trust deed in relation to debts in his name. A business was 
appointed to act as trustee.
In December 2020 PCSL was appointed by a third party to contact Mr D about an 
outstanding debt. But the debt was included in Mr Ds trust deed. 
In January 2021 Mr D contacted PCSL and complained. Mr D referred PCSL to his trustee. 
The trustee contacted PCSL a short time later and provided a copy of Mr Ds trust deed. 
PCSL contacted the debt owner to check for guidance on how to proceed. 
PCSL responded to Mr Ds complaint and referred Mr D to the debt owner to raise concerns 
about its instruction. PCSL said his account would remain on hold until the debt owner 
responded. The account was passed back to the debt owner a short time later. PCSL issued 
a follow up response and said it had sent Mr D two emails and two letters concerning the 
account in question and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
PCSL had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked 
to appeal and said PCSL had unfairly placed his account on hold instead of closing the 
matter. Mr D also said PCSL had contacted him about a debt that was protected by law. 
Mr Ds case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr D for explaining why he feels PCSLs actions were unfair. Ive seen the 
trust deed documents and agree the debt PCSL contacted him about was included. Under 
the trust deed, Mr D agreed to make payments to his creditors and I havent seen any 
evidence that shows he fell behind. So I can understand Mr Ds distress and frustration at 
being contacted by PCSL. 
Mr D has told us he felt harassed by PCSLs contact. PCSL sent Mr D two letters and two 
emails. Ive reviewed the correspondence but didnt find the tone or contents to be 
threatening or harassing. As Ive said above, I can appreciate why Mr D was concerned to 
be contacted about a debt that was included in his trust deed. But, the correspondence he 
received sought contact from Mr D in order to discuss an account that PCSL had been told 
was outstanding. Where correspondence included requests for payment, they also invited Mr 
D to get in touch and discuss the matter which is what he went on to do. 
Mr D complained to PCSL and his trustee also sent documents showing the debt was 
included in his trust deed. When PCSL received that information, it reverted to the debt 
owner to check the position. Mr D has said he believes the account shouldve been referred 
back to the debt owner immediately as the account in question was covered by his trust 
deed. Whilst I agree the information from the trustee showed the status of the account and 
that Mr D is subject to a trust deed, I dont agree it was unreasonable for PCSL to refer to 
the debt owner to check how it wanted to proceed. Ultimately, PCSL was acting on behalf of 
another business so I think it was a reasonable step to check for guidance once the 
information provided by Mr D and the trustee was received. 
Ive considered how the decision to place the account on hold impacted Mr D. Once PCSL 
received Mr Ds complaint and the trust deed information, it ceased contact with him. So 
beyond the two emails and two letters PCSL sent, there were no further requests for 
payment or contact. In my view, the impact on Mr D from this point was very limited. I can 
see Mr D was distressed by the contact he received but Im satisfied PCSL acted reasonably 
by referring the matter back to its clients guidance on how to proceed. 
In this decision, Im only able to look at PCSLs actions. Im satisfied that, when it was 
instructed, PCSL was unaware the debt formed part of Mr Ds trust deed. Once Mr D got in 
touch and his trustee forwarded the relevant documents, PCSL stopped contacting him 
about the debt and referred the matter to the debt owner. PCSL then passed the account 
back to the debt owner once it received confirmation of how to proceed. I havent found 
PCSL treated Mr D unfairly in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. Im 
satisfied that once Mr D and his trustee raised concerns over the debt it was contacting him 
about it ceased correspondence and collections activity. As Ive said above, I think it was 
reasonable for PCSL to check its instructions with the debt owner and I havent found this 
step meant Mr D was treated unfairly. As Im satisfied PCSL dealt with Mr Ds complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman