DRN-3566661
The complaint
Mr U complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have revoked his registration as 
a financial advisor, provided poor customer service and have sent details of his accounts to 
a wrong address.
What happened
Mr U says hes a mortgage advisor, but RBS rejected his registration which has impacted his 
livelihood. He said they wouldnt provide a reason for this, so he made a subject access 
request (SAR) for the information they held about him. When he called to chase up the 
response to his SAR, he said the agent was rude and hung up on him. Also, when RBS 
responded to his SAR they sent the details to a previous address that he lived at. He 
complained to RBS.
RBS accepted their customer service provided when Mr U called about his SAR wasnt to 
their standard and paid £50 by cheque to compensate Mr U for this. They said the SAR had 
been sent to the email  Mr U had given to them. They also said there wasnt any evidence to 
show theyd sent this information to a wrong address. But explained that any documents 
related to Mr Us mortgage account would be sent to the address RBS held for that account.
Mr U wasnt happy with RBS response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that the de-registration wasnt an activity that this service could 
consider. And said while Mr U had shown that hed correspondence sent by RBS to an 
address he said he no longer lived at, she accepted that RBS had corresponded with the 
address they held on their records.
Mr U didnt agree he said RBS had sent the response to his SAR to his current address and 
to a previous address. He argued that by sending to his current address showed RBS knew 
where he lived. Mr U asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Part of Mr Us complaint is about his registration with RBS as a mortgage advisor. As this is 
about a business to business relationship its not a complaint that this service can consider. 
As Mr U has accepted our investigators view about this, I wont comment further.
Its the role of the Information Commissioners Office (the relevant regulator) to determine if 
there has been a breach of specific data protection regulation. Our role is to decide on a fair 
and reasonable basis, whilst having regard for relevant regulations, whether a business has 
made an error. So, for me to say RBS must do something different I must first be satisfied 
that theyve done something wrong. 
Mr U has sent evidence of RBS correspondence sent to an address he no longer lives at  
although from the information Ive seen this address is connected to Mr U as its his parents 
address.  He said the envelopes contained all the statements for his accounts with RBS up 
to when the accounts were closed. The pictures sent by Mr U show RBS envelopes 
addressed to him but not with the address he says he currently lives. But he hasnt showed 
the content of the envelopes or the date of issue or receipt. So, Ive considered the evidence 
RBS has sent to us.
In December 2021, I can see a letter in response to Mr Us SAR was sent to the address 
Mr U gave to RBS when he made his SAR. The SAR response provided the personal 
information for each of his accounts. But from what I can see no statements were sent as 
part of the SAR. I can see the SAR letter explains how Mr U can make an email request for 
copies of his account(s) statements. As Mr Us accounts were closed there wasnt the option 
for him to obtain the statements digitally.
And I think this is the crux of the complaint. All of Mr Us accounts were closed some years 
before. And so, the information held by RBS for these accounts wouldnt have been updated 
from when they were closed. I can see Mr Us mortgage account was closed in 2018, and 
the address held at that time is the one seen on the envelopes hes showed to us. So, the 
statement request generated copies for the address held on record.
While I dont doubt that this was upsetting for Mr U, I dont think the information Ive seen 
suggests confidential information relating to him was disclosed to someone else in error. The 
address the envelopes were sent to was the one RBS had on record for the account, so I 
cant say they did anything wrong. And as the address also has a family connection the 
correspondence has been given to Mr U. So, I dont think there has been any impact beyond 
Mr U being unhappy. 
I can see RBS has accepted that they fell short of their customer service when Mr U called 
to check on the status of his SAR. And they have paid Mr U £50 to compensate him for this 
which I think is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking RBS to do anything more.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman