DRN-1864715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc
(HSBC) has offered them in relation to the mis-sale of a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC that they may have been mis-sold PPI. Mr and Mrs S 
initially used the services of a 'claims management company' to help them with their 
complaint. HSBC were unable to locate a PPI policy for Mr and Mrs S.
In August 2019, after discovering that Mr and Mrs S did have a PPI policy, HSBC 
wrote directly to Mr and Mrs S apologising for its error, and explained that it would conduct 
an investigation into the sale of the PPI.
Following its investigation into the sale of the PPI, HSBC upheld Mr and Mrs S's complaint. It 
offered £1,780.87 (after tax). This consisted of £694.22 for the PPI premiums that 
Mr and Mrs S paid and £1,086.65 (after tax) to compensate them for being out of pocket 
for that money. This compensatory interest rate was set at 8% simple interest per annum. 
The compensation was split equally between Mr and Mrs S with each party 
receiving £890.44.
HSBC said its offer was to repay the premiums Mr and Mrs S paid towards the PPI which 
ran from May 1993 up until September 1997.
Mr and Mrs S think they should be paid more in compensation because of HSBC's error in 
not being able to locate them earlier.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought overall, HSBC's offer was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold.
As Mr and Mrs S disagreed, and as the matter hasn't been resolved, it's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has already agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ss PPI mis-sale complaint. So I wont be 
looking at how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute.
In this decision I will only be considering whether HSBC has offered fair compensation and 
whether it needs to offer anything further. And having looked at HSBCs offer of 
compensation, Im satisfied its fair. Ill explain why.
Our approach to compensationWhen a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint, Id expect it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy.
With the type of PPI policy Mr and Mrs S were sold, this generally means refunding the PPI 
premiums Mr and Mrs S had paid and paying 8% simple interest on each payment to 
compensate Mr and Mrs S for any time theyve been without that money.
This is what HSBC has offered to Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S held their PPI policy 
from May 1993 up until September 1997. In that time they paid £694.22 for the PPI. 
HSBC has refunded that back to Mr and Mrs S. And it offered them additional compensation 
of £1,086.65 (after tax) to compensate them for being out of pocket of that money (set at 8% 
simple interest per annum).
So its offer is in line with what I would expect it to do in placing Mr and Mrs S in the position 
as if they had not taken the PPI policy out.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S were frustrated, as they had complained to HSBC previously and 
were told they didn't have PPI. Sometimes things can and do go wrong. But in this case, I'm 
glad to see that HSBC did pro-actively correct its error. When HSBC discovered Mr and  Mrs 
S did have a policy, HSBC wrote out to them directly apologising and then conducted a mis-
sale assessment of the PPI policy. I'm satisfied, once it was known there was a PPI policy, 
that HSBC rectified its error promptly. And I'm also mindful that while Mr and  Mrs S may 
have been out of pocket of the money they had paid towards PPI, for longer than they 
should have been, they did receive additional compensation for the delay. They received 8% 
simple interest, for being out of pocket on what they had paid towards PPI, up until the 
settlement date. 
Mr and Mrs S think it was suspect that HSBC offered and paid this compensation post the 
'PPI deadline' (which was on the 29 August 2019). I don't think there is anything suspect or 
underhand here. I note HSBC discovered Mr and Mrs S had a PPI policy and wrote out to 
them on 15 August 2019. So it started the investigation before the PPI deadline - it's just that 
the investigation was concluded, and compensation was paid, after the deadline. But, and 
importantly, it didn't affect Mr and Mrs S rights in any way - they still had the option to refer 
the matter to this service which they did. 
All things considered I think HSBC's offer is fair. Mr and Mrs S were mis-sold PPI, and they 
have been refunded back what they paid towards PPI, and they received additional 
compensation for being out of pocket of that money up until the settlement date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered Mr and Mrs S fair 
compensation and it doesnt need to do anything further.
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman