DRN-4140908
The complaint
Ms M complains that the advice given to her by Future Wealth Management Ltd (FWM), an 
appointed representative (AR) of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), to transfer two personal pension plans 
(PPP) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and the associated investment advice, 
was unsuitable.
In this complaint Ms M is represented by a third party, but for clarity Ill refer to all activity as 
being carried out by Ms M herself. 
What happened
On 30 August 2017 Ms M had a meeting at her home with someone that Ill refer to as DG. 
She knew DG through a third party. Ms M wanted to receive retirement planning advice and 
the meeting was set up to facilitate this. 
DG was an Authorised Introducer for FWM and Pi. The Director of FWM was someone Ill 
refer to as HY.
During the meeting on 30 August 2017 DG took details of Ms Ms personal and financial 
circumstances. Completed by hand at this meeting were a FWM Client Fact Find form and a 
Dynamic Risk Planner. Both these documents were signed and dated by Ms M. Also at this 
meeting Ms M signed a Client Agreement with FWM which showed it was an AR of Pi. This 
client agreement showed that FWM would take an initial fee of 3.25% of the initial transfers 
(£2,590) and a 1% ongoing service fee, payable monthly (£796).
On 18 September 2017 a Risk Profile Report was produced, headed that it was prepared by 
HY, which showed that he considered her risk profile to be 5  Low/Medium. 
On 19 September 2017 a Research Report was produced, which showed it was completed 
by HY. This shortlisted three proposed SIPP providers for Ms M.
On 26 September 2017 Ms M signed and dated the Risk Profile Report. 
On 18 October 2017 a suitability letter was produced recommending Ms M transfer her two 
PPPs into a SIPP and to then invest the consolidated funds with a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM) with SVS Securities, in its Mixed Model fund. This suitability letter was from 
FWM, with HYs name at the end (unsigned) and HYs FWM email address.
As a result of this recommendation Ms M applied to open a SIPP, with the intention to invest 
her funds with SVS Securities. The transfer of her two PPP was arranged by FWM, the first 
completing on 15 January 2018 and the second on 2 February 2018.
On 21 February 2018 75% of her funds were invested with SVS Securities, with the 
remaining 25% being withdrawn by Ms M as tax-free cash (TFC). 
In May 2020 SVS Securities went into liquidation.
On 9 March 2022, through her representative, Ms M complained to Pi. She said that HY of 
FWM, an appointed representative of Pi, had given her negligent advice. She said SVS 
Securities were high risk and unsuitable for her as she only wanted low to medium risk 
investments. Had she been properly advised she would never have moved her pensions.
In its final response letter Pi didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said, in summary:
Ms M was put into a portfolio in line with her risk level, however any loss incurred 
was as a result of mismanagement of the funds by SVS Securities. In any event the 
investment advice was given by DG and not HY.
No advice was given to Ms M by HY.
SVS Securities were responsible for the construction, monitoring and adjustment of 
the portfolios  not HY, FWM or Pi.
The author of the suitability report was DG and not HY.
DG was an introducer to FWM and as such was able to provide instructions but not 
provide advice. DG was unregulated at the time of the advice. DG acted beyond his 
remit of an introducer and as such Pi cannot be held responsible for his actions.
Ms M didnt agree so referred her complaint to our Service.
But Pi raised an objection to our Service considering the merits of the complaint. It thought 
that it wasnt responsible for the advice, and that it had been given by DG, who was an 
introducer acting outside of the agreement between them. Pi also said that its AR, FWM 
(HY) was not involved in the transaction and did not give the advice about which the 
complaint is made. 
So our Investigator thought about whether the complaint was one that our Service was able 
to consider. And he thought it was. In summary, he thought:
Ms M had complained about the advice to switch her PPP into a SIPP and invest in 
SVS Securities
FWM had carried out a regulated activity when it made arrangements for Ms M to 
invest
FWM was authorised by Pi to make those arrangements, so Pi were responsible for 
the act complained about.
So our Investigator went on to consider the merits of Ms Ms complaint against Pi. And 
having done so, he thought the complaint should be upheld. He could see no justification for 
switching Ms Ms PPPs into a SIPP, so FWM ought to have advised her to leave her PPPs 
as they were, or perhaps consolidating them into one similar plan.
So because he felt the initial transfer advice was unsuitable, he thought Pi should be 
responsible, as the principle business, for the losses incurred by Ms M. And he set out how 
he thought Ms Ms loss should be redressed. He also thought that Pi should pay Ms M an 
additional £300 compensation for the distress shed suffered. 
But Pi did not agree. Ive read and considered its response in full. It said, in summary:
DG had misrepresented his position as an introducer
It was clear that Ms M had never met HY and had never heard of FWM
The suitability letter was issued on what was purported to be a FWM letterhead and 
sent by HY, but this was not signed. Any person could have created this form of letter and pass it off as being from FWM
The suitability letter purports to have been written by HY and starts it was good to 
meet you on 30th August 2017 but Ms M has confirmed she never met HY. DG 
was the only person Ms M met so it was an irrefutable presumption that the letter 
was drafted by DG, without the knowledge or approval of HY or FWM.
The copies of Ms Ms passport and bank statement, issued as proof of identity, were 
purportedly certified and signed by HY of FWM. The signature was not similar to 
HYs and as hed never met Ms M he couldnt have confirmed the passport 
photograph was a true likeness. As DG was the only person to have met Ms M, DG 
must have forged HYs signatures.
As Ms M only ever dealt with DG, there was no evidence that any advice was given 
to Ms M by FWM. And as there never was any advice or services provided by FWM, 
nor was there any intention to provide these, there can be no client-firm relationship 
and therefor Ms M was not an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6R of the 
Regulators rules.
Any fees paid to FWM by Pi were in the normal course of business and were not 
indicative of any prior knowledge or acceptance of what had happened.
In conclusion, Pi said that it was not responsible for the advice to switch and invest because 
the circumstances in which they were brought about clearly involved forgery and fraudulent 
misrepresentation by either or both DG and FWM. These actions were in breach of both of 
their contractual obligations with Pi and which did not form part of business of a prescribed 
description.
Having considered everything submitted, our Investigator did not change his view. He 
believed that there was evidence to show FWM was involved in advising Ms M, and 
therefore Pi has responsibility for the advice that was given. 
Pi responded to say it was its understanding that HY was out of the country when the advice 
was given to Ms M, so maintained he could not have been involved.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). FWM (and therefore HY) wasnt directly 
authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm.
Its authorised by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out a range of 
regulated activities including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. 
We can therefore consider complaints about Pi. And this includes some complaints about its 
appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to
check, by reference to the DISP rules, as set out in the Regulators handbook, and the 
legislation from which those rules are derived, whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, Mr Justice 
Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do.
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Ms M has complained about?
Ms M complains that FWM gave her unsuitable advice to switch her pensions to a SIPP in 
order to invest through SVS Securities.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purpose of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of a business and  
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; 
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5)Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Ms Ms
previous pensions and the SIPP she moved to) are specified as investments by a provision
in Article 82 RAO. Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And
making arrangements in relation to them is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.Ms M says although she was initially advised by DG, she was given the paperwork by DG 
but the advice letter she received had HYs name on it. Pi says HY didnt give advice and it 
was only DG that did.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied
its most likely HY advised Ms M to switch her pensions and invest through SVS Securities.
In the circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely HY advised 
Ms M:
The suitability letter dated 18 October 2017 clearly gave advice and Im satisfied its most 
likely HY was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to be sent in his name, even if 
he didnt draft it himself. I note Pi has questioned the validity of the letter and the fact it 
wasnt signed by HY. But from the emails Ive detailed below, its clear he, in his role as 
FWM, was involved in what was happening. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and sent 
without HYs knowledge.
The SIPP application form, in the section titled 2.1 Financial Adviser Details named 
HY as Ms Ms adviser, gave HYs FWM email address and that he was working for 
Pi. It also said Yes next to the statement:
Advice given which takes into account the suitability of both Simple 
Investment SIPP and the underlying investment strategy. My/our client is 
following the advice given:
The advice and annual fee structure was set out in the SIPP application under the 
heading 3. Financial Adviser Remuneration. This stated that 3.25% of the value of 
any transfer into the SIPP and a 1% annual fee would be paid to Ms Ms adviser. And 
I can see from the SIPP statement that these fees were paid by deduction from the 
fund.
The SIPP application also showed under the heading 4.1 Initial Investments that 
100% of her funds were to be allocated to the Investment Manager SVS Securities.
A letter dated 11 December 2017 was sent from one of Ms Ms PPP providers to 
FWM setting out the value of her PPP and her options. As this was sent direct to 
FWM it is a reasonable assumption to make that FWM asked the PPP provider for 
these details in its role as her advisers.
So although I havent seen a copy of FWM submitting the application, Im satisfied that on 
the balance of probabilities it did, and that FWM were involved in the process of making 
arrangements.
Ms Ms passport and bank statement also seem to have been certified as true copies of the 
originals on 1 November 2017. They are both stamped with HYs name, business address 
and phone number, with a signature. I note that Pi disputes this and says that the signature 
does not resemble the one it has on record from HY, however, on balance I think it is more 
likely than not that these were certified by HY. I say this as Ive concluded above that FWM 
were named as Ms Ms advisers in the application process. 
My conclusion is therefore, on the balance of probabilities, that HY, in his role as FWM, did 
give advice to Ms M about the transfer to the SIPP and the associated investments with SVS 
Securities, and made arrangements in relation to these. So regulated activities took place.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?Which business was HY acting for?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied HY was acting as FWM when he advised Ms M 
and made arrangements. The only mention of any other business is in the Risk Profile 
Report dated 18 September 2017. This states it was completed by HY but in his role as a 
Director of a different business, and not FWM. But the fact the research report and the 
suitability letter were sent in his capacity as FWM, the application documentation all referred 
to FWM, the SIPP operator referred to him as representing Pi, and fees were paid to Pi 
satisfy me that he was acting as FWM when he carried out the acts complained about here. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility under the agreement it 
had with FWM.
The agreement with FWM.
There is an Appointed Representative Agreement between Pi and FWM and HY (in his 
capacity as the Director of FWM) dated 15 January 2015. 
Under Section 1, the term Services is defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, 
mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
And Regulated Activity as:
Any activity requiring authorisation under The Act or by the FCA and Regulated 
Activities means more than one of them.
The agreement therefore is broad and envisages advice being given on, and arrangements
made in relation to, investments. And Pi hasnt disputed that.
Instead, Pi said the underlying principles are that whatever an appointed representative does 
must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the principals responsibility. In 
particular, it said it cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed representative 
where they are deliberately concealed from it. But Im not persuaded HY acted unlawfully or 
fraudulently in carrying out the regulated activities of advising Ms M, and making 
arrangements in relation to her specified investments.
So, Im satisfied that Pi did accept responsibility for HY advising Ms M to switch her pensions 
and invest through SVS Securities.
Is Ms M an eligible complainant?
The rules which set out who can make a complaint to our Service are also set out in the FCA 
handbook under DISP 2.7.6R. It states, as is relevant here: 
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic 
money holder of the respondent; As Ive said above, it is accepted that there was an Appointed Representative Agreement in 
place between Pi, FWM and HY. And there is a client agreement between FWM and Ms M, 
signed by Ms M and dated 30 August 2017. This sets out that FWM was an AR of Pi. So as 
there was a client agreement between Ms M and FWM, it follows that Ms M was a client of 
Pi, the principle firm. Pi is named as the firm HY worked for in the SIPP application, and the 
transfer fees were paid from the SIPP to Pi.
So Im satisfied that there was a valid customer/business relationship, and Ms M had a 
complaint which arose from matters relevant to that relationship. As such Im satisfied that 
Ms M is an eligible complainant.
My decision  jurisdiction.
Ms M was a customer of Pi and is an eligible complainant in this case. For the reasons set 
out above, Im also satisfied Pi is responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the acts being 
complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has told our Investigator that HY was not in the country when the advice was given, so he 
couldnt have given it. But Pi also told our Investigator on 26 April 2023, in response to his 
initial uphold of the complaint, that HY left the country in February 2018. As the advice and 
arrangement that is the subject of this complaint occurred between August 2017 and 
February 2018 (by which time both PPPs had been transferred), by Pis own submission, HY 
was in the country, and therefore not abroad at the relevant time. As such I do not find this 
element of Pis argument persuasive.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time, and carefully considered the additional submissions made 
by Pi. 
Within the FCA handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time FWM advised Ms M were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Pi (and as a result of its AR agreement  FWM) take reasonable steps to 
provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, 
FWM needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Ms Ms objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
It is unclear what spurred Ms M to seek advice from FWM, but it is apparent that she knew of 
DG as a friend of a friend. But Ms M sought retirement planning advice, and as Ive 
concluded above, although the discussions were between Ms M and DG, the advice was 
most likely provided by FWM. In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R a fact find was completed 
during the meeting between DG and Ms M at her home on 30 August 2017, and this set out 
her circumstances and objectives under the heading Clients main financial goals, needs & 
priorities: [Ms M] has no plans to retire.
She wants to access 25% TFC at age 55 [her date of birth].
She doesnt want an income from her funds
She would rather have access to lump sums over the years
She appreciates that these plans will not give her a decent income
The [PPP1] plan does not give her access to the new pension freedoms and they 
recommend transfer
She wants to put both plans together
She wants a plan that will give her new pension freedoms and control over her funds 
to a certain extent.
But I dont think the recorded objectives contain enough detail, and they are what is 
considered stock motives. They didnt contain details specific to Ms M and explain why she 
had those particular objectives, especially her apparent wish to take the available TFC at 
age 55. And just because a client may wish to take a particular course of action doesnt 
mean the adviser has to facilitate this. As set out in COBS 2.1.1R the advice has to be in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. So any objective expressed by Ms M should 
have been properly explored to establish the reasons behind it, and whether the course of 
action was actually suitable in all the circumstances. And there needed to be compelling 
reasons why it was in Ms Ms best interests to transfer her PPPs into a SIPP at the point she 
did. 
I cannot see that Ms Ms objectives were properly explored nor that the switch was in her 
best interests. I dont think FWMs suitability letter gave any meaningful comparison between 
the growth, or potential growth that she could expect upon transfer, with what she could 
achieve with her PPPs if they remained as they were, or if they were consolidated into 
another low-cost arrangement. Because the cost of the proposed plan is a significant factor 
here - any fees taken from the fund directly reduce its value. In Ms Ms PPP arrangement 
she was paying a 1% annual management charge. In transferring to the recommended SIPP 
she had to pay 3.5% initial advisers fee, a 1% ongoing advice fee, a 0.75% + VAT platform 
fee, a set-up fee of £100 and annual fee of £199. 
So as the recommended SIPP was more expensive than her current arrangement, I cannot 
see the transfer was suitable on the grounds of cost. 
In order for FWM to treat Ms M fairly, and allow her to make an informed choice, it was 
necessary for FWM to clearly set out the pros and cons of the transfer in terms of the cost, 
the risks involved and the alternatives solutions, including not doing anything. But I cannot 
see the suitability letter did this. Although it spelled out the SIPP and the investment would 
be more expensive, it didnt show a clear comparison between her current charges and what 
she would have to pay. It also did not explore a comparison between the potential growth of 
either the SIPP (and SVS Securities) and her current arrangement, and this was especially 
important given the reduction in value caused by the fees and charges with the SIPP. It also 
did not explore her options of consolidating her PPPs into one alternative lower cost option, 
but simply discounted this with a generic statement:
I am recommending a SIPP instead of a Stakeholder/personal pension because this 
is more suitable in your circumstances because it offers you a lost (sic) cost way of managing your pension monies, within funds that meet your objectives and are in line 
with your risk profile. 
It is also important to note that the pensions that were switched (approximately £80,000) 
were Ms Ms only pensions, and she was in her 50s at the time of the events complained 
about so approaching retirement age with a low capacity for loss. Other than the state 
pension which she was some way off being able to claim, her existing PPPs would be her 
only source of income in retirement.
I also cannot see why a SIPP was the best platform for Ms Ms pension plans. By her own 
admission she was inexperienced in investments. Whilst a SIPP may have had some 
advantages, I havent seen anything that persuades me these benefits were needed by 
Ms M in her circumstances. Theres no evidence that Ms M  with her modest pension funds 
 needed access to a wider range of investments or that such funds would not have been 
available with her previous pensions. She had never invested in any products other than 
within her two existing pensions, and there was no evidence that she had made any 
changes to the funds within these. If there was a genuine desire by Ms M to consolidate her 
pensions into one fund, it seems likely there would have been cheaper options that would 
have met her needs. And other than the generic objectives recorded in the fact find, there 
was little to suggest she was particularly unhappy with the performance of her existing 
arrangements. Had she wished to have an annual review of her plans, she could have 
arranged that without the need to transfer.
   
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to FWM that there
was no obvious justification for Ms M to move from her existing schemes and enter the
arrangement she did. And this assessment is based on knowledge FWM ought to have had
at the time  not what we now know about the failure of SVS Securities.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Ms Ms pensions to a SIPP to invest
through SVS Securities was unsuitable. Im satisfied that if FWM hadnt given unsuitable 
advice, Ms M would have left her pensions as they were.
Pi has asserted that DG gave the advice. But this decision is about Pis responsibility. And 
because Im satisfied Ms M wouldnt have moved her pensions to a SIPP to make the 
investments she did if HY hadnt given the unsuitable advice or made the arrangements he 
did, I think its fair to ask Pi to compensate Ms M for the full measure of the loss she suffered 
from moving her pensions and making the investments she did. DG was clearly involved in 
the advice process, and probably gave Ms M HYs suitability letter. But I think it likely that 
had FWM (and by reason of the AR agreement Pi, as the principal business here) advised 
Ms M that the switch was not in her best interests, I think it likely that Ms M would have 
listened to that advice. So if suitable advice had been given to Ms M by FWM, it is likely she 
would have retained her PPPs and not switched.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). Someone else may also have given Ms M advice, but Pi had its own distinct 
regulatory obligations which, if met, and suitable advice had been given, Im satisfied would 
have resulted in the pension moves to the SIPP not taking place.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Ms M, in particular Pis argument that SVS Securities 
maladministration caused Ms Ms loss. But in my view, in considering what fair 
compensation looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it to compensate Ms M for the full measure of her loss. But for Pis failings, Ms Ms 
pension moves would not have occurred.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also have contributed to that loss is a distinct matter and that fact should not impact on 
Ms Cs right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of her loss.
If Pi still believes that other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take these 
concerns up directly with them.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms M would not have moved her pensions if everything had happened as 
it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable. 
In summary, Pi should: 
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered because of making the switch and investment 
with SVS Securities. 
2. Pay compensation for the loss into Ms Ms pension in respect of her pension loss. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Ms M direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account the necessary adjustments set out below. 
3. Pay compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms M. 
4. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Ms M. 
Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment 
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Ms Ms pensions as at the date of this 
decision, had she left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP. 
Pi should ask Ms Ms former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had she not switched her pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been switched. I say this 
because the funds her PPPs were invested in were broadly balanced - so Ms M wanted 
some capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The notional transfer (or benchmark) value should be compared to the transfer value of the 
SIPP at the date of this decision, and this will show the loss Ms M has suffered.
Any additional sum that Ms M paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are many regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end.
2. Pay compensation to Ms M for the loss she has suffered in (1)
Since the loss Ms M has suffered is within her pensions, its right that I try to restore the 
value of her pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into Ms Ms pension plan. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Ms Ms pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Ms M direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Ms M should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Ms marginal rate of tax in 
retirement, assumed to be 20%. So the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent to 20%. As Ms M has already withdrawn her 25% TFC 
entitlement the notional allowance should be applied to 100% of the amount.
3. Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Pay Ms M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied Ms M has been 
caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, a 
large portion of her pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that 
upset.
4. Pay interest
Pi should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Ms M 
has accepted this decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid from 
the date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per year. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Ms M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Ms M a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Ms M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Ms M 
compensation as set out above. 
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman