DRN-4311177
The complaint
Miss D complains that TSB Bank plc said it would consider her mortgage application if she 
bought a property from a family member at a reduced price, then it changed its mind. Miss D 
said this meant she had to pay much more, and had a serious impact on her personally.
What happened
Miss D told us she secured a remortgage of her existing property with TSB, early in 2022. 
She took out a fixed interest rate mortgage, on a five year deal. That mortgage came with an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) if it was redeemed before the end of the fixed rate. At this 
point, Miss D already had plans to move, and she intended to port her new mortgage deal. 
Miss D secured a mortgage offer with TSB, to port her existing borrowing and buy a new 
house. This purchase was partly funded by a large gift of money from a close family 
member. Miss D then ran into problems with the sale of her existing property, and decided 
that she would arrange for another family member to purchase the house she wanted, and 
then she would buy it from the family member at a reduced price. 
Miss D said this was all discussed with TSB. But she said she only found out later that TSB  
cancelled her existing mortgage offer at that time, she said she hadnt agreed to that. 
Miss D said she then tried to move forward with buying the house from her family member, 
and was horrified to be told that the relative she was buying from wasnt a sufficiently close 
relative for TSB to allow a purchase at undervalue, which it calls a concessionary purchase. 
TSB said it hadnt known who the relative was, when it said this would be possible. Miss D 
said shed been clear throughout who she was buying from.  
Miss Ds family member was by this time committed to the purchase, so that went ahead. 
Miss D complained about TSBs decision on the concessionary mortgage, and it agreed to 
reconsider lending to her. But when it did consider this application, it decided it wouldnt 
lend. And TSB didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Miss D said all of this flowed from TSBs initial wrong advice, that she would be able to get a 
TSB mortgage if she was going buy at a concessionary price from this relative. She set out 
for us in detail how this had impacted her, both in terms of her physical and mental health, 
and in terms of her financial situation. Miss D has since been able to sell her previous 
property, and has redeemed the mortgage, but she says she paid TSB a sizeable ERC to do 
so, and she lost the advantageous interest rate on her old TSB lending, so shes paying 
more for her mortgage now. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that we couldnt know 
for certain whether TSB had understood which relative was buying the property, or what 
advice it had given around concessionary purchases. But she said that in any case, Miss Ds 
application would always have been subject to a full assessment. She said TSB is entitled to 
set its lending policies in line with its risk appetite, and we cannot make TSB change those 
policies. TSB isnt required to share these policies with Miss D. We can only consider if TSB 
has given fair and reasonable consideration to Miss Ds application. And our investigator 
thought it had done, so said she wouldnt uphold this complaint.
Miss D wrote in some detail to object. She thought our investigator hadnt understood the 
issues raised. She said this complaint centres on the fact she was misled by TSB when she 
first discussed a concessionary purchase. She challenged the conclusion our investigator 
reached on this. She said it should be clear to anyone who heard what had happened that 
she had been misled, and that was why TSB later granted an exception to its policy. But she 
said that didnt change the fact that she was misled, and the detrimental impacts which 
followed. She wanted our service to listen to the phone calls where this was all discussed. 
Miss D repeated that TSB had cancelled her original mortgage offer, without her agreement 
or knowledge, after these conversations. And Miss D said there was never any suggestion 
that a concessionary purchase mortgage might not be approved. She thought that at least 
she should be told the reasons for TSBs ultimate decision, and not leave her speculating 
about this, although none of the reasons she thought TSB might have latched onto would 
explain its decision. 
Miss D stressed again the impact this had on her, both personally and financially. She 
thought TSB should, at the very least, be obliged to repay the ERC it had charged on her 
recently redeemed mortgage. Because no agreement was reached, this case was then 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I think Miss Ds complaint divides into two issues. There is the initial advice she says she 
was given, that TSB would be prepared to offer a mortgage on a concessionary purchase 
from a particular family member. And there is the decision TSB eventually made, not to lend 
to Miss D. Ill look at those issues in turn.
Miss D said that early in 2022 she had recently secured a new mortgage deal with TSB, at 
an advantageous interest rate. But when she did this, she intended to move almost 
immediately, and to port this mortgage to what she intended to be her new family home. She 
wasnt able to sell her existing property right away. TSBs notes say that this was because 
she needed to extend the lease on this property. 
I note that this was a joint mortgage, but it appears that the other person named on the 
mortgage was living elsewhere, and he and Miss D had separated. Miss D said when she 
took out this remortgage that they were intending to sell this property, and I understand she 
then anticipated that any lending for a new property would be in her sole name.
Miss D said she then obtained a mortgage offer from TSB to buy a new house she really 
wanted, which would provide the extra space she and her family needed. But she said she 
wasnt able to sell her existing property quickly enough to be able to buy this house. So she 
decided to secure the purchase of this new home, by gifting money to a relative, and getting 
that relative to purchase the house for her. She would then, in turn, purchase the house at a 
concessionary rate, some months in the future. I think this was always a somewhat risky decision to take. TSB wasnt obliged to port a 
mortgage to any new property, or to increase Miss Ds lending. Her personal situation and 
TSBs lending policies could well change. So if TSB later decided that it wouldnt lend either 
the extra funds Miss D wanted or wasnt happy with the property she was offering as 
security, then Miss D had already committed to a five year term mortgage product, and 
would need to pay a sizeable ERC to move to the home she wanted. And, of course, Miss 
Ds plan also relied on being able to sell her existing home quickly, which I understand, for a 
number of reasons, she has struggled to do. 
Although I understand that Miss D did initially obtain a mortgage offer for this property, she 
wasnt able to go ahead with that purchase in her own name, as her existing property wasnt 
able to be sold at this time. She told us shed discussed a concessionary purchase with TSB, 
and it knew who would be buying this property with a view to selling it on to her, but failed to 
warn her that this fell outside of its policy on concessionary purchases.
Ive seen TSBs policy on concessionary purchases, and Im satisfied that it doesnt offer 
mortgages for such purchases when they are not made from immediate family members. Im 
also satisfied that this policy defines immediate family to exclude the family member Miss D 
hoped to purchase from. 
I understand Miss D says this completely upturned her plans, as she only found out about 
this, after this relative was committed to the purchase of the property that Miss D intended to 
purchase later. Miss D would like our service to obtain, and consider a number of phone 
calls with TSB, so that we can see she was initially advised this would be possible. 
I havent requested these calls from TSB. Thats because I dont think the content of these 
calls is likely to make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. If I were to listen to these 
calls, and they showed what Miss D has said, that she could apply for a mortgage for a 
concessionary purchase from this relative, then I would ask TSB to give consideration to 
Miss Ds mortgage application. But I can see that TSB already agreed it would do this, as 
part of its initial response to her complaint. And it backdated the rate to when Miss D could 
have made her application, so that she wasnt affected by the time TSB took to consider its 
response to her complaint.
TSB then refused to lend to Miss D for the purchase of the property from her relative. Miss D 
includes this as part of her complaint. She said she has now sold her original property, and 
had not only lost the previous advantageous interest rate, but had to pay an ERC to redeem 
her TSB mortgage because she couldnt port that mortgage to the new home she wanted to 
buy.
I understand that Miss D sees what she says was TSBs wrong advice about whether its 
policy allows it to grant a mortgage for a concessionary purchase from this relative, as the 
root of all the problems she has since experienced, and the significant impact she says this 
had on her personally. But I havent been able to see that these are linked in the way Miss D 
suggests. 
I think that, even if we accept what Miss D says about the advice she was given, she knew 
from the outset that any relative would have to own the new house for six months before she 
could buy it at a concessionary rate. So she could not purchase this new property until six 
months after the purchase, which the Land Registry shows happened in late April 2022. 
Miss Ds original mortgage offer expired on 4 September 2022. She also complained that 
this was cancelled without her agreement or knowledge. But, even if that offer hadnt been cancelled by TSB, it would have expired before Miss D could purchase the new property at a 
concessionary rate. 
In short, Miss D would always have needed to submit a new mortgage application before 
purchasing the house she wanted, from her family member. 
When Miss D did submit a new application, the lending request wasnt approved. I havent 
been able to see that this decision was made on the basis of the closeness or otherwise of 
the family relationship that Miss D has with the owner of this property. I think this remains a 
separate issue. So I have to see if TSB acted fairly and reasonably when it reached this 
decision. 
Miss D said that no explanation was given for TSBs refusal to lend, although she said she 
was informally told that there were too many moving parts. But I think its important to 
stress that TSB was making a fresh lending decision at this stage, for reasons Ive explained 
above. And TSB said that when it reconsidered, it didnt think this lending fell within its 
policy.
Miss D says the decision couldnt have been based on affordability, because she had 
previously been approved by TSB for the same amount. But Ive explained why TSB needed 
to make a fresh decision, and that this would always have been the case. So TSB having 
approved lending previously, doesnt mean its then bound to reach the same decision in 
future. 
I think there were a number of factors for TSB to consider at the point when it made its 
lending decision. I note that at the time TSB reached its lending decision, Miss D wasnt able 
to say what her share of equity from the sale of the existing, mortgaged property, might be. 
The nature and sources of all the funding involved in this purchase do not appear to have 
been clear at that time. And TSB also didnt appear to be clear whether her new partner, 
who had gifted some of the money for the purchase, would then be living in with her in this 
property or not. 
I think it was reasonable for TSB, in the light of all of the above information, and the apparent 
fluidity of this situation, to decide that it would not wish to make a mortgage offer to Miss D at 
that time. And because I think that was a fair and reasonable decision for TSB to reach at 
the time, Im not able to say that TSB is then responsible for the consequences that Miss D 
says flow from this. 
I know that Miss D will be very disappointed by my decision, but I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman