DRN-2093696
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T says that in September 2018, his car was vandalised. He took the car to be repaired to 
esures recommended repairers. On collection, he says he had to ask them to redo the rear 
bumper as they had not painted it correctly. Mr T says that a few months later he noticed 
that the paint was bubbling on the roof, so the car was taken back again for it to be redone. 
When he collected the car, he says, there were paint lines all along the roof. So, Mr T called 
esure and discussed the possibility of using a different repairer. 
Mr T says esure told him that he could use a local non-recommended repairer to remedy the 
issues. At the end of February 2020, when he collected the car from this non-recommended 
repairer, he says he found multiple new faults. Mr T says the tailgate was not closing, there 
were multiple new marks, scuffs, and scratches in various parts of the car. He also says that 
there were streaks of white wax all over, because the car was waxed but not polished. Mr T 
say there was also overspray and paint lines on the rear quarter of the car. He complained to 
the non-recommended repairer, but they refused to accept that these damages were done 
by them. So, he complained to esure.  
In June 2020, esure wrote to Mr T. In this correspondence, they explained they listened to 
the calls he had with their agent towards the end of January 2020 and beginning of February 
2020. In these calls, they say, their agents offered Mr T to take the car back to their 
recommended repairers to rectify the issues, but Mr T said he would prefer to use his own 
repairer. They say they explained to Mr T that if he chooses this option, esure would have no 
control over those repairs as a result. In the correspondence, esure go on to explain that as 
they initially offered to have the work rectified through their recommended repairer, and then 
have paid for the rectification work to be carried out by a repairer of Mr Ts choosing, they 
have effectively discharged their legal responsibility to Mr T under his insurance policy. 
esure has also paid £200 compensation to Mr T for the inconvenience caused, when he had 
to bring his car back on several occasions for rectification work done by their recommended 
repairer initially. 
Mr T disagreed with esure and referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld and did not think that esure was 
required to take any further action. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that, as far as he is concerned, the contract between himself and esure has not 
been honoured. He says they have not managed to repair his car to a satisfactory standard 
using their recommended repairer on two separate occasions, so, he says, they still have a 
duty to repair the car. 
I agree with Mr T that esure had a responsibility and a duty to repair his car to a satisfactory 
standard, but when this was not done esure did offer for their recommended repairer to put 
things right. Mr T did not want this option, and he said he would prefer to take it to his own 
repairer. esure agreed to pay for that repair, but they explained to him the benefits and the 
risks of getting the repairs done this way. The main risk being that the non-recommended 
repairer would be separate from them, as they do not have a contract with them, and esure 
would lose control of repairs being done. Also, I can see that under the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ts policy, if the repairs are not completed by one of esures recommended repairers, 
all recommended repairer benefits will not be available  one such benefit being repairs 
having a 5-year guarantee. Considering Mr T is unhappy about the work completed by a 
repairer not recommended by esure, any concerns he has regarding the guarantee of that 
work is something that he will have to take up with the non-recommended repairers himself, 
as esure is not liable for those repairs. So, taking everything into consideration Im satisfied 
that Mr T had enough information from esure to make him aware of this. 
Mr T says that esure agreed to use and have paid for the repairs done by the non-
recommended repairer, so in his opinion they should be liable for the car to be repaired to an 
acceptable standard. But Mr T was the one that chose the repairer himself, and esure only 
approved the cost of the repairs. So, besides paying for the repairs, I have not seen any 
evidence to show that esure has taken any control over the repairs that were completed by 
the non-recommended repairer.  
Considering all the circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable to 
say that esure should be liable for anything thats gone wrong with the repairs done by the 
non-recommended repairer.
I understand that Mr T was inconvenienced when he had to ask esures recommended 
repairer to redo the rear bumper, and on another occasion, he had to bring the car back 
because the paint was bubbling on the roof. To address the inconvenience caused esure 
paid Mr T £200 compensation. I believe this is reasonable, as it provides a fair level of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr T has experienced, so I dont think 
esure needs to do anything further in this respect. 
While I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T, Im not asking esure 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman