DRN-2075710
The complaint
Miss P complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Startline, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss P was more than six years old, had been driven for 
89,346 miles and had a price of £5,049;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Miss P in November 2018 and she says that it was faulty and 
has been returned to the dealer numerous times for repairs but the faults continue so 
she paid another garage to repair the car in September 2019  but the cars still 
faulty so she complained to Startline in October 2019;
it said that the dealer had confirmed that it had completed work on the car but did not 
keep records of any repair work so it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert and said that would unwind the agreement;
but it then became aware of the repairs by the third-party garage and said that it 
would no longer support unwinding the agreement  but Miss P says that the car was 
collected from her in November 2019 but she continued to pay for it;
I consider it to be clear from the evidence that there were issues with the car within 
two months of it being supplied to Miss P and the dealer attempted to repair those 
issues in January 2019 but without success;
the issues continued and I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Miss P to pay 
a third-party garage to repair the car in September 2019  she paid £1,080.01 for 
work relating to an oil leak as identified on the garages invoice;
she complained to Startline in October 2019 and it arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert  the inspection report shows the cars mileage 
as being 93,211 (so nearly 4,000 miles more than when the car was supplied to 
Miss P) and says: 
We can confirm that issues are present and may be subject to failed previous 
repairs; and: We do consider that from the information provided these 
issues have been ongoing since the point of sale and the selling 
agent/previous repairer is responsible for the cost of repairs;
its clear from the inspection report that the car is still faulty and it said that the issues 
have been ongoing since the car was supplied to Miss P;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss P, the dealer attempted to repair it, Miss P paid a garage for 
repairs but the independent report confirms that the car is still faulty; and
in these circumstances I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Startline to allow 
Miss P to reject the car  I dont consider that the repairs by the third-party garage or 
the mileage that Miss P has driven in the car make that unfair or unreasonable.
Putting things right
I find that Startline should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be 
collected from its current location  I understand that the car was collected from Miss P in 
November 2019. Miss P was able to drive nearly 4,000 miles in the car and I consider that 
its fair and reasonable for Startline to keep four of the monthly payments that she made 
under the agreement for that use  but her use of the car has been affected by the issues 
with it and it was collected from her in November 23019 so I find that Startline should refund 
to her all of the other monthly payments that shes made (with interest). 
Miss P paid £1,080.01 for the car to be repaired and I find that Startline should reimburse 
her for that payment (with interest). These events have caused distress and inconvenience 
to Miss P. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay her £200 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience. I also find that it should ensure that no adverse 
information about the agreement is recorded on her credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint and I order Startline Motor Finance Limited 
to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both 
at no cost to Miss P.
2. Refund to Miss P all but the first four of the monthly payments that shes made 
under the agreement.
3. Pay £1,080.01 to Miss P to reimburse her for the cost of the repairs.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Miss Ps 
credit file.6. Pay £200 to Miss P to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to at 4 above. Startline must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if 
she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman