DRN-2051535
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs W opened a store card account in 1999. AXAs records show that PPI was added to her 
account in February 2001, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ws store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said that 
Mrs W would have been unable to claim the main benefits of the policy. This was because 
she worked fewer than 16 hours per week. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
In order to claim for injury, sickness, or unemployment under the policy, the policyholder 
had to be working in paid employment for at least 16 hours a week.
Mrs Ws told us that she was working for fewer than 16 hours per week at the time when 
she took out the PPI. 
In response to the adjudicators view, AXAs commented that when Mrs W originally 
complained, she told it she was employed. Its pointed out that she had the chance to 
tick an alternative option to indicate that she was working less than 16 hours a week, but 
didnt do so. It asserts that the information Mrs Ws provided is contradictory as shes 
now stated that she was working for less than 16 hours a week.
But I dont agree that Mrs W has been contradictory in what shes said. Shes 
consistently told both AXA and this service that she was employed. Saying that she was 
working fewer than 16 hours a week provides more detail about her working pattern, but 
it doesnt contradict what shes said about having been employed.
I acknowledge that the form which Mrs W completed when she first complained to AXA 
also included an option to say that she was working fewer than 16 hours a week. And 
I accept that she didnt tick that option. But I think its likely, on balance, that this was 
because Mrs W (or her representative on her behalf) simply selected the first option in 
the list that correctly described her employment situation when she took out the policy. 
And I think its more likely than not that Mrs W was, as shes told us, working fewer than 
16 hours a week.
So I dont think Mrs W would have been able to make a successful claim under the 
policy for injury, sickness or unemployment. And I think it unlikely that the remaining 
benefits alone would have been enough for her to think that the policy was good value.
AXA and Mrs W agree that AXA didnt give Mrs W advice about the PPI, or recommend 
that she take it out. But AXA still had a responsibility to give Mrs W clear enough 
information to enable her to decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her. And 
I dont think shed have taken it out if it had been clearly pointed out to her that shed 
need to be working for at least 16 hours a week to claim the policys main benefits.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what 
Mrs W would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs W would have owed AXA something on her store 
card.
D. AXA should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs W that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax AXA has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman