DRN-2913190
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. The policy covered Mr H, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide.
My colleague issued a provisional decision on 8 April 2021, to explain why she didnt think 
this complaint should be upheld. In that decision, she said:
Lloyds isnt able to provide any of the paperwork from when the sale of the MPPI took place. 
However, this isnt surprising given the sale took place over 26 years ago. Because of this, 
Lloyds also doesnt know how or when the MPPI was sold to Mr and Mrs H. So, it asked us 
to proceed on the basis that the MPPI was taken out during a meeting at the same time of 
the mortgage, which is in line with what Mr and Mrs H have told us.
Because the point of sale information isnt available, I have to base my findings on what 
I think on balance, is more likely to have happened in the circumstances. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr and Mrs H have said. But taking into account the time thats passed 
and the limited information available, I cant assume that something went wrong, when 
theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that something did. As a result, I dont uphold the 
complaint on this basis.
Mr and Mrs H have said they received advice from Lloyds when they took out MPPI. And 
due to the limited information available, Lloyds has treated the sale as though it 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. This means Lloyds needed to ensure that the policy 
was right for them. Lloyds hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of the policy wording 
from 1994. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But 
based on the closest copies Ive seen from either side of the sale and what Ive seen of 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time (as the sole person insured), I think that it was right for him. 
Mr H was eligible for cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr H has said he would have been entitled to 18 weeks full pay from his employer if he was 
too ill to work. He has also told us he had close to £1,200 in savings. In addition to this, Mr 
and Mrs H have provided a copy of a completed Income and Expenditure form from when 
they took out their mortgage. They said that jointly they would have had sufficient disposable 
income available to cover their mortgage payments. Mr H also provided a copy of the staff 
pension and life assurance scheme he was a member of from a few years after the sale.
Having thought about what Mr H has told us about sick pay, I dont think this means Lloyds 
was wrong to recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H. I say this because the MPPI would 
have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr H would have received from his employer and 
would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to 12 
months. The MPPI would also have paid a benefit if he became unemployed and for up to 12 
months. This would have enabled Mr and Mrs H to use their savings to cover any other 
financial commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time. In addition to this, 
I can see the policy would have paid a further benefit amounting to £3 for every £1,000 of 
the opening mortgage balance, which Mr and Mrs H could have used to cover some home-
related expenses  such as home insurance and bills. So I think the MPPI would have been 
useful to Mr and Mrs H if Mr H ever became too unwell to work or lost his job. The MPPI also 
looks like it was affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs H have said about the fact that they had sufficient 
disposable income available to them. Whilst I dont doubt what they have told us, I dont 
think this means the MPPI wouldnt have been useful for them. If Mr H wasnt working due to 
ill health or redundancy, their disposable income would reduce once his contractual sick pay 
or redundancy pay ended. Given the MPPI would have paid a benefit at a time when Mr Hs 
income would have reduced or ceased, I think this shows they had a need for the MPPI. So, 
again, I dont think this shows that Lloyds was wrong to recommend the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
Finally, I have thought about the pension and life assurance scheme Mr H has provided 
details about. Im not persuaded this shows he didnt need MPPI. The life assurance offers a 
different type of cover than PPI and having looked at the document provided, generally 
would only pay out in the event of death. As the MPPI would have paid out if Mr H lost his 
job or was unable to work due to any illness, I think this shows he could have found the 
cover useful if he ever fell on hard times. Having considered the pension element of this 
scheme, this looks to be a final salary pension. Looking at the limited details, it would have 
provided a tax-free cash sum at the employees normal retirement date as well as an annual 
sum once Mr H retired. Because the lump sum was not available until more than 15 years 
after Mr and Mrs H took out the policy, and the overall financial product is centred around 
Mr Hs retirement, it would be unlikely to assist them at a time when Mr H was unable to 
work or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks 
like the policy could have been useful to them. So I dont think better information would have 
stopped them from taking it out.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what they have said about them 
receiving a refund from Lloyds for an MPPI they took out at a later date. But I am only able to 
consider all of the information about the MPPI taken out in 1994 and so this point doesnt 
change my conclusion.Finally, Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs H has said about the MPPI being a condition of 
the mortgage. While Lloyds hasnt provided us with anything to show that this was the case, 
even if I were to assume that the MPPI was a condition of the mortgage, this wouldnt mean 
that this complaint should be upheld. Lenders were entitled to add conditions, such as the 
requirement to take out MPPI or home insurance to their mortgages  and it would be up to 
the customer to decide whether they wished to proceed with the mortgage based on the 
lenders additional requirements. It follows that even if I were to assume that the MPPI was a 
condition of the mortgage, I dont think this shows it was mis-sold.
My colleague has since left the service, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Following the provisional decision, Lloyds didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs H said 
Lloyds had not proved that the PPI was not a condition of their mortgage. They felt that 
Lloyds no longer having all the records was simply a get out. They pointed out that they 
never missed any payments for this mortgage. And they expressed how dreadful they felt 
Lloyds had been in handling their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs H  and while it is not my intention to disappoint 
them  I have also not found this policy to have been mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Neither side have been able to provide all the original documents from the sale  which is 
rather understandable given it was over two and a half decades ago. Indeed, under data 
protection rules Lloyds was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data rather than hold onto 
it for too long. So while I understand Mr and Mrs Hs argument that Lloyds has not proven 
what happened, I cant fairly use that as a basis on which to conclude that Lloyds did 
something wrong here. Theres no evidence which shows that it misled or unfairly pressured 
Mr and Mrs H into having PPI, and this sale was far too long ago for me to reasonably 
require Lloyds to be able to produce documents from the time to defend itself now.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, either. Indeed, 
from what Ive seen it looks like in order to get a policy the customer would need to have 
applied for it separately to the mortgage application  i.e. the PPI was not part and parcel of 
the mortgage. And one of the few records which does remain  Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
offer  shows that PPI was not a condition of their mortgage. So taking everything into 
account, I dont have sufficient reason to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on this basis.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr H, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs H as possible, Ive 
assessed things as if it did. That would mean Lloyds had to check the PPI was right for Mr H 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.For example, it looks like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid out on top of his work benefits and 
offered him more comprehensive cover. Mr and Mrs H had only limited savings at the time, 
and in any case the PPI meant they could effectively protect those savings and use them for 
other things. Mr H had other policies, such as life insurance and a pension, but those 
covered very different things to PPI and were not alternatives to PPI, so Im afraid theyre not 
relevant here. I understand Mr and Mrs H had a good amount of income, but they still would 
have suffered a severe reduction in income had Mr H been off sick or unemployed in the 
long term. I also understand that Mr H felt secure in his career and health, but accidents, 
illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even in situations which feel secure at the 
time. Mr and Mrs H may not have missed any mortgage payments, but thats something they 
only know now in hindsight. At the time of the sale, there was every chance that theyd face 
an unexpected misfortune or that their situation would change over the many years to come. 
And ultimately, if they fell behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So it looks 
like the PPI could have really been useful for Mr and Mrs H in protecting their home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and 
it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so 
Mr and Mrs H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs H pointed out that they had another PPI policy many years later, which was then 
found to have been mis-sold  and I completely understand why they raised this. But 
different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were 
sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So while some policies were mis-
sold, others were not. We look at each case on its individual merits, and Ive explained 
above why Ive not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way Lloyds handled their 
complaint about PPI. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about 
regulated activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a 
regulated activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs H found Lloyds 
complaints process to be poor, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision 
on the sale of their PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman