DRN-4300982
The complaint
Mr L and Ms R are unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) has partially declined
a claim made under their building warranty.
What happened
Mr L and Ms R purchased a home which came with a ten-year NHBC building warranty.
In 2021 Mr L and Ms R noticed issues with the gable end of their house and garage. So,
they contacted NHBC to make a claim.
NHBC declined the claim on the basis they said there was no physical damage. As
Mr L and Ms R didnt agree, they commissioned their own surveys into both damp and the
brickwork in 2022. They then sent the reports to NHBC.
NHBC arranged for a claims investigator to inspect their property. During this, NHBC
identified an issue with the coping stones, and accepted there was a valid claim for these.
But they didnt accept there were any other issues which were covered under the policy.
NHBC offered a cash settlement for the coping stones, and later said that if this wasnt
sufficient, Mr L and Ms R should provide evidence that it was insufficient and theyd consider
making a higher payment.
As Mr L and Ms R remained unhappy that the claim hadnt been fully accepted, they
approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said she was
satisfied NHBCs position was reasonable, so she didnt recommend they do anything
further.
Mr L and Ms R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator on part of the 
claim and complaint. So, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I reach my final decision.
Mr L and Ms Rs ten-year building warranty with NHBC is split into different sections 
of cover, and what section applies is dependent on when the claim was made. As the 
claim was made in years three to ten of the policy, section three of the cover applies.
This section outlines:
This section applies if there is physical damage to your home because the 
builder failed to build the following parts of your home to comply with the 
NHBC requirements:
Foundations, walls, external cladding, curtain walling, external render 
and external vertical tile hanging, roofs, ceilings, balconies, load-
bearing parts of the floors, flues, chimneys and access steps, to the 
main structure.
Staircases, floor decking and screeds, to the inside of the main 
structure, if they fail to support normal loads.
Retaining walls, if they are necessary for the structural stability of the 
main structure.
Double- or triple-glazing panes to outside windows and outside doors, 
to the main structure, if newly installed at the completion date.
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
So, in summary, the policy covers physical damage to a listed area of the property 
where the builder failed to build the home to comply with NHBC requirements. And 
the claim needs to reach a certain value before it is covered.
There were four issues which Mr L and Ms R reported to NHBC:
Insufficient insulation
Lateral deviation of the gable brickwork
Incorrect size/placement of the coping stones  and consequential mortar and 
brick damage
Garage dry verge  and consequential mortar and brick damage
Ill address each of the reported issues separately.
Insulation
Mr L and Ms R reported that their property didnt have sufficient insulation on the 
second floor. NHBC declined that part of the claim as they say it isnt covered under 
section three of the policy.I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly by declining this part of Mr L and Ms Rs claim. 
This is because insulation isnt one of the covered areas under section three of the 
policy. So, I dont intend on asking NHBC to do anything further regarding this point.
Lateral deviation of the brickwork 
Mr L and Ms Rs brickwork survey determined there was lateral deviation of the 
brickwork, and it was out of plumb by up to 60mm. NHBC declined this part of the 
claim as they say isnt covered under section three of the policy.
In line with the terms of the policy Ive outlined, walls are an area which is covered. 
However, for a claim to be covered, there needs to be physical damage.
Although there may be lateral deviation present, this isnt physical damage in itself. 
So as the requirements for a successful section three claim havent been met, I dont 
think NHBC has acted unfairly by declining this part of the claim.
Coping stones, brickwork and mortar
After Mr L and Ms R commissioned their own damp and brickwork surveys, NHBC 
carried out an inspection and concluded:
The homeowner has reported Mortar erosion to gable wall & around coping 
stones 
There is evidence of some mortar erosion under the coping stones and to the 
bricks at the bottom of the coping stones on the kneeler. It was also noted 
that some movement of the coping stones had taken place, as shown in the 
photographs.
The damage is consistent with the incorrect installation of the coping stones.
To repair the damage the coping stones should be removed cleaned and 
replaced with a damp proof course below the coping stones which are 
bedded on suitable mortar and mechanically fixed. The bricks where identified 
with mortar erosion should be re pointed to the brick kneelers.
The homeowner also noted there is some staining and efflorescence to the 
bricks which may have made them porous. This would not be something 
covered under section 3 of the Buildmark policy. As shown in conditions and 
limitations under section 3 of the Buildmark policy, under items you cannot 
claim for - changes in the colour or texture of, or staining to, external finishes.
Therefore, NHBC accepted there was a valid claim for the coping stones under the 
policy, and they offered a cash settlement of £4,506.66. Mr L and Ms R have said 
this isnt sufficient, so NHBC said they would review any quotations provided if they 
were for higher than their scope of works and calculated costs.
However, I dont think NHBCs offer of settlement is reasonable here. And for more 
than one reason. Ill explain why.Firstly, the inspection concluded the coping stones needed removing, cleaning and 
re- bedding, along with the bricks with mortar erosion immediately below being 
repointed. Having seen the scope of works that the cash settlement is based on, this 
only includes taking up and refitting of the coping stones. It doesnt include repointing 
of the brickwork immediately below the coping stones, despite this being determined 
as having physical damage due to the incorrect placement of the coping stones, and 
being accepted under the claim.
However, I dont think just recalculating the schedule of works to include repointing of 
the brickwork below is sufficient in resolving this part of the claim. Ill explain why.
NHBC has said there was no other physical damage to the brickwork or mortar when 
they inspected. And NHBC has said that staining itself isnt covered:
You cannot claim for:
Changes in the colour or texture of, or staining to, external finishes.
And they also say mortar erosion isnt covered unless the structural stability or 
weather tightness is impacted in line with the following exclusion:
You cannot claim for:
cracking, spalling or mortar erosion, which does not impair the 
structural stability or weather tightness of your home.
However, NHBCs inspection was very limited, from the ground three floors below. 
Before NHBC carried out their inspection, Mr L and Ms R commissioned a damp 
survey (which they provided to NHBC), and this concluded (Ive highlighted the key 
points):
Prior to arrival on site a scaffold has been erected and several bricks 
removed to examine the cavity and inner blockwork.
Inspection carried out revealed with the use of a protimeter moisture meter 
revealed moisture reading of between 22% to 28% moisture readings to the 
external Brickwork and inner blockwork, (14% moisture recommend 
levels). Inspection of the cavity insulation revealed this was moist to touch. 
Further inspection revealed severe staining and salt deposits of the brickwork 
and mortar joints which are now beginning to perish, upon inspecting the 
copings on the parapet wall it is quite clear the water penetration is 
soaking through the missing mortar joints, also the overhang of the 
copings is not sufficient to allow the water to drip from the underside drip 
channel (capillary joint) this allowing the water to run down the wall of which is 
causing the staining.
And:
It was also noted that areas of the external brickwork will require re-pointing 
any such works should be carried out with a recommended mix to match the 
existing mortar.And Mr L and Ms R also commissioned a brick survey, and this concluded (again Ive
highlighted the key points):
Parapet Coping Stones and Flashings
The Parapet coping stones inadequately project the external leaf of 
the brickwork, resulting in no distance between the capillary groove of 
the coping stones and the external brickwork. Water is not shedding 
off the brickwork face causing water saturation, salt build up and 
degradation of the bricks and mortar.
Parapet flashings visible externally to underside of coping stones. This 
should be buried within the mortar to fulfil its function.
Gable Brickwork and Mortar
Mortar missing in numerous places between bricks and coping 
stones. Where present it is crumbling to the touch and 
disintegrating. No resistance when drilled through.
Bricks show white discoloration (mineral leak), degradation and are 
excessively porous in comparison to how bricks should be at this age 
(like drilling through chalk).
And:
It is my opinion that these problems are due to poor construction not wear 
and tear expected of a building of this age: Primarily the incorrect size and 
placement of the coping stones, poor building of the gable to allow such 
deviation and incorrect installation of the insulation between the cavity walls. 
The result of the incorrect size and placement of the coping stones such that 
there is no space between the external wall and the grove is leading to 
saturation and degradation of the bricks and mortar of the gable and 
between the coping stones, allowing the ingress of water. This is 
causing the building to lose its structural integrity. If it is not corrected 
there will be continued accelerated degradation of the coping stones, 
bricks and mortar on all sides of the house (degradation can also be seen 
on the front and back corners of the house associated with the coping 
stones). The structure will eventually fail and require rebuilding. In addition 
the level of water ingress will continue to rise due to progressive structural 
and weatherproofing failure causing damp and internal degradation.
Recommendation
All affected brickwork requires removal and replacement on all 
faces of the building.
Replace coping stones with correct size, ensuring correct placement.
Replace parapet flashing ensuring it is buried in mortar.
Placement of missing insulation in wall cavity of second floor.
Correction of lateral gable wall deviation while replacing brickwork.So, these reports both conclude there is degradation of the mortar and brickwork, 
along with water ingress as a result. Therefore, this concludes there is both physical 
damage, as the mortar has degraded, and water ingress via the degraded joints, so I 
dont think the exclusion NHBC has mentioned surrounding mortar applies on at least 
one, if not both, counts.
Mr L and Ms Rs surveys were also completed from scaffolding at height at the areas 
of alleged damage, and also included removing bricks to establish any issues. 
Compared with NHBCs inspection from ground level, three floors below, I find 
Mr L and Ms Rs surveys both more comprehensive and more persuasive.
However, Mr L and Ms Rs survey has mentioned multiple areas of damage to the 
mortar, but not been specific in the location, or how many areas. So, on the face of it, 
it certainly does seem there are additional areas that NHBC didnt identify during their 
limited inspection, which likely are areas of physical damage caused by the incorrect 
placement of the coping stones, and therefore should be covered under the policy.
However, I also have to keep in mind that the policy covers physical damage, so only 
those specific areas of damaged brickwork or mortar would be covered. But there 
isnt sufficient information for me to say exactly what areas should be covered and 
need to be included within the claim.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, I think the only way forward at this stage would be for NHBC to 
reattend and carry out a more detailed, comprehensive and thorough inspection, to 
determine whether there are additional areas of mortar or brickwork which should 
also be covered and added to the claim.
Once NHBC has carried out that inspection, and if Mr L and Ms R are unhappy with 
the position NHBC ultimately reaches, we may be able to consider that as a new 
complaint. 
Garage dry verge
NHBC declined to cover the garage as they inspected it and concluded:
There is evidence of water staining and moss to the external brickwork along 
with some efflorescence to the brickwork on the garage walls, as shown in the
photographs.
The staining is consistent with water wetting the garage walls.
Garages are constructed for the storage of a motor vehicle. As such the walls 
are not built the same a walls to habitable parts of the home. Garage walls 
are typically 100mm thick, constructed of a single skin of brickwork. 
Sometimes rain may penetrate the external walls of the garage if they 
become wet enough and may show signs of damp.
The walls becoming wet, efflorescence and moss is not something which is 
covered under section 3 of the Buildmark policy. As shown in conditions and 
limitations under section 3 of the Buildmark policy, under items you cannot 
claim for - changes in the colour or texture of, or staining to, external finishes.However, Mr L and Ms Rs report outlined (Ive highlighted the key points):
The dry verge system on both sides of the building are inappropriate or been
incorrectly fitted (would require removal for differentiation). Although this 
building is of a single brick construction and therefore has different building 
criteria to that of the house, this is not structurally sound and again 
causing accelerated degradation of the bricks and mortar which will lead 
to structural failure. In addition there is a concern that the electrics (installed 
at the time of building) are becoming wet due to this which is a safety as well 
as a functional concern.
Recommendation
Removal and replacement of dry verge system and affected bricks and 
mortar.
So again, I think this shows that there is physical damage to the brickwork and 
mortar as a result of the dry verge installation, and not just staining as NHBC 
concluded. Therefore, I also think NHBC should carry out a more comprehensive 
inspection of the garage to establish if there has been physical damage caused to 
the brickwork and mortar, and whether there is a valid claim.
Again, once NHBC has done this, if Mr L and Ms R are unhappy with the decision 
NHBC ultimately reaches, we may be able to consider that as a new complaint.
Service and additional costs 
NHBC declined Mr L and Ms Rs claim from the outset. This then resulted in them 
needing to obtain their own reports to support their position. And once they had 
provided those reports, NHBC agreed to carry out an inspection which ultimately 
resulted in part of the claim being accepted for the coping stones (putting aside what 
Ive said about the other areas).
So, given it took Mr L and Ms R being required to obtain reports to support their 
position, which led to NHBC then inspecting and partially accepting the claim, Im 
minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable for NHBC to reimburse the costs 
Mr L and Ms R incurred in obtaining those reports (subject to evidence of costs being 
provided). Im also minded to direct NHBC to add 8% simple interest from the date 
the reports were paid for, to the date of settlement.
As outlined, I also think NHBC should have done more based on the persuasive 
evidence Mr L and Ms R provided which gave comprehensive detail of the issues 
they had reported. Whilst it isnt known at this stage whether that will lead to 
additional reported issues being covered, at the least, NHBC could have explored 
this more comprehensively at a much earlier point rather than their limited inspection. 
So, in addition to carrying out the further inspections Ive outlined, and reimbursing 
the costs of the reports, Im also minded to direct NHBC to pay Mr L and Ms R £150 
compensation for the inconvenience theyve been caused.So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct NHBC to:
Carry out a more detailed and comprehensive inspection of the gable walls to 
establish if there is physical damage to the brickwork and mortar
Carry out a more detailed and comprehensive inspection of the garage to establish if 
there is physical damage to the brickwork and mortar
Reimburse the costs Mr L and Ms R incurred in obtaining the damp and brickwork 
surveys (subject to evidence of costs being provided)
Add 8% simple interest to the reimbursement of the reports from date of payment of 
the invoice for the reports to date of settlement
Pay Mr L and Ms R £150 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
NHBC responded and said they had no further comments to make.
Mr L and Ms R also responded. They said their only objective was to achieve a structurally 
sound, watertight and safe house which complies with regulations and standards.
They said they had concerns based on previous claims experience about the outcome 
NHBC may reach following reassessment of the reported areas. Theyve asked if there is 
any way for the next inspections to avoid this, as previously the inspection was very limited. 
Mr L and Ms R also provided an updated report from the builder who originally carried out 
the brickwork inspection which clarifies the areas of brickwork and mortar damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and the 
responses to it. Having done so, my final decision on all the points considered remains the 
same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
I do note Mr L and Ms Rs reservations about what may or may not happen when NHBC 
reinspects the walls and garage, based on their previous experience and NHBCs limited 
inspections. However, as outlined in my provisional decision, if after this has been carried 
out, and if Mr L and Ms R remain unhappy with NHBCs position, they would be free to raise 
a new complaint about the outcome of the inspections and the decision NHBC reaches.
Mr L and Ms R also provided an updated report from the builder who carried out the original 
brick survey, which provides further clarification on the areas the brickwork that they 
identified had issues previously. My final decision is the same as my provisional decision in terms of what I think NHBC 
needs to do (carry out a more comprehensive inspection of the brickwork). If Mr L and Ms R 
accept my final decision, then theyll need to liaise directly with NHBC to arrange the 
inspections. At that point, it may be beneficial for Mr L and Ms R to provide this updated 
report to NHBC so it can take this into account when carrying out the inspection of the 
brickwork.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct National House-Building 
Council to:
Carry out a more detailed and comprehensive inspection of the gable walls to 
establish if there is physical damage to the brickwork and mortar
Carry out a more detailed and comprehensive inspection of the garage to establish if 
there is physical damage to the brickwork and mortar
Reimburse the costs Mr L and Ms R incurred in obtaining the damp and brickwork 
surveys (subject to evidence of costs being provided)
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement of the reports from date of payment of 
the invoice for the reports to date of settlement
Pay Mr L and Ms R £150 compensation
* If National House-Building Council considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L and Ms R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr L and Ms R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman