DRN-4125531
The complaint
Mr H complains that Citibank UK Limited is withdrawing banking services for some of its 
customers. In addition, he wants Citi to provide the full range of current account services and 
facilities on his open payment accounts, including overdraft facilities. 
What happened
In April 2023, Mr H contacted Citi. He was concerned that the bank intends to move away 
from retail banking and focus on managing clients with more complex wealth needs going 
forwards. Mr H speculated that his profile does not meet Citis new criteria, meaning his 
accounts will be closed at some point. In addition, he wanted Citi to split his existing 
overdraft limit across his current accounts. Citi said it was not possible to do that at this time 
because it is not offering new or increased overdraft facilities to any customer. 
Mr H complained. He said there had been no definite answers to any of his questions about 
the status of his accounts and felt the banks level of service was unsatisfactory. He 
explained the overdraft change wouldnt be new or increased borrowing as it was a 
redistribution of a facility that had already been granted. 
Citi issued its final response on 13 April 2023. It said Mr Hs accounts currently remain 
unaffected and it would contact him to let him know if the situation were to change. It felt it 
had not made any errors and maintained it was unable to fulfil Mr Hs request to split his 
existing overdraft limit at this time. 
Mr H referred the complaint to us. He wanted Citi to either reconsider its decision to move 
away from retail banking services or to offer compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience affected customers will suffer. Mr H pointed out that hed been a Citi 
customer for over 20 years and that it could be difficult to find an alternative banking 
arrangement offering the same services. He was concerned that switching banks would be a 
difficult process. He felt the decisions the bank is making are incompatible with the FCAs 
Consumer Duty. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Citi had treated Mr H unfairly by 
not splitting his existing overdraft facility over his accounts. He said that adding an overdraft 
facility to an account that doesnt have one is a new overdraft. He explained that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service cannot compel Citi to offer new overdraft facilities when it has 
made a business decision not to do so at this time. He also highlighted Citis terms and 
conditions which explain the bank can decide to end its account agreement with a customer 
at any time by giving two months notice. 
Mr H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said Citi are treating 
him as if he is in the departure lounge to exit the bank and not providing him with access to 
the full range of banking services, leaving him in limbo. Mr H said this was discriminatory 
and unfair.
Our Investigator said there is no rule that says a bank must offer its customers an overdraft 
facility just because they provide them with a bank account. He suggested that Mr H may 
wish to think about taking his business to another organisation if Citi is unable to offer him 
the services he wants. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
On 19 October 2023, Citi gave Mr H three months notice of its intention to close his 
accounts.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am unable to uphold the complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Mr H is 
hoping for, so I will explain why. 
Citis decision to close some customer accounts 
I do appreciate that Mr H has held current accounts with Citi for many years, so I can accept 
it was unwelcome news for him to learn that the bank is planning on making changes to its 
product offering. 
But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer if they have their accounts closed. This is because a bank is entitled 
to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close their account with a bank. 
As long as the bank reaches its decisions in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually 
intervene.
At the time that Mr H made this complaint, Citi told him it currently had no plans to end his 
account relationships. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that information was incorrect 
at the time it was provided to him. 
Now Citi has made the decision to close Mr Hs accounts, it must do so in a way which 
complies with each accounts terms and conditions. But my powers only extend to 
investigating Mr Hs original complaint. Any concerns Mr H has about how the account 
closure process is handled are new complaint points that Citi must consider first. 
I know Mr H has been frustrated because he didnt know where he stood longer term. But 
there is no basis on which I can make an award against Citi for this when it hasnt done 
anything wrong. 
Changes to Mr Hs overdraft facilities 
I can see that from Mr Hs perspective, he does not consider that he is asking the bank for 
any new lending. He wants to split an existing overdraft facility across his existing current 
accounts. But Mr Hs current accounts are separate products each with their own terms and 
conditions. Reducing an existing facility from one account and adding a new facility to 
another account are distinct applications and processes. 
Citi has explained that at this point in time, it is not currently considering any new overdraft 
applications. It hasnt removed the facility that Mr H already has in place. 
Citi is entitled to make a business decision as to whether to offer new or extended overdraft facilities. The Financial Ombudsman Service will not usually interfere with a banks 
commercial judgement provided it is exercised legitimately and reasonably.
I have seen no persuasive evidence that the banks commercial judgement was not 
exercised legitimately. It is not treating Mr H differently or less favourably to anyone else. It 
has not acted unfairly or unreasonably by deciding not to offer new overdraft facilities to any 
of its customers at this time. It is for Citi to decide the circumstances in which it is prepared 
to lend to customers.
Overall
I know my position will not feel fair to Mr H. I do understand why hes concerned about any 
changes to his current accounts. Like most people, his current accounts are integral to his 
day-to-day banking. Mr H feels strongly that Citi are falling below the standard of care that 
they should give to him. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think Citi hasnt met the 
requirements of the Consumer Duty. The Duty emphasises that consumers still have 
responsibility for their own choices and decisions, but its important that consumers are given 
the information they need at the right time to empower them to do this. I understand Mr H 
wanted more specific detail than he was given. But Im satisfied that Citi have shared 
information with Mr H to support him in deciding whether the products or services it was 
offering were in line with his needs and financial objectives. 
Im also mindful that during the time we have been investigating this complaint, Citi has 
signed up to the Current Account Switch Service, making the process to change banks 
easier. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman