DRN-3402398
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) refuses to refund 
him a transaction he claims to be fraudulent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr B says he and his mother-in-law booked two rooms to stay at a hotel I will refer 
to as Hotel X in this decision.  He says due to an error, he and his mother-in-law were not 
provided with the rooms they booked.  Mr B explains that Hotel X agreed to waive the fee  
however, in the end, he was charged whilst his mother-in-law was not.  After many attempts 
to resolve things, Mr B says Hotel X telephoned him and agreed a refund, but this was never 
processed; and now Hotel X state they cannot find his booking  although he still has the 
invoice.
Mr B raised a complaint with Amex about this matter which he also referred to this Service.  
Mr B says:
They [Amex] keep asking me not to raise a 'formal complaint', until they investigate, a poor 
attempt to keep their complaint figures low would be my guess! However, despite several 
App chat messages, they keep asking me for evidence. However, I cannot prove a negative! 
All I have is booking confirmation and a charge, and a FB chat saying they have no booking! 
In essence, this needs to be looked at as if it was fraud! I.e. if [Hotel X] says I never stayed 
with them, how on earth can they charge me c £70?
Amex says that it set up Mr Bs complaint incorrectly, and for this it credited £50 to his 
account as a gesture of goodwill.  Amex also says that it raised a second dispute for Mr B 
which has now been closed due to lack of evidence.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and did not uphold it.  Mr B responded 
disagreeing with the investigators findings: In short, this is a fraud claim, please ask [Hotel 
X] (via Amex) to prove I stayed there.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mr B argues that this matter should be treated as a fraud claim.  However, I disagree with 
this.  The reason being is because on the one hand, Mr B says this is fraud due to Hotel X 
stating they cannot find his booking.  But on the other hand, Mr B accepts he in fact made 
the booking.  Therefore, I cannot agree the disputed transaction was fraudulent, as Mr B 
authorised it.  The fact that Hotel X cannot find the booking does not change this.
With that in mind, I have thought about whether Amex acted reasonably in its attempt to 
dispute the transaction concerned via, for example, chargeback.  Having done so, I am 
satisfied Amex acted reasonably in this regard.
I say this because, based on the evidence before me, I cannot see that Mr B provided Amex 
with satisfactory evidence which it would have required to dispute the transaction.  I 
appreciate that Mr B says given the circumstances he is unable to provide such evidence, 
but unfortunately, this is not a valid reason for me to say Amex should have done more to 
dispute the transaction.
Ultimately, whilst Mr B has provided evidence of his booking  he has not provided any 
evidence to support his assertion that there was an error with the room he booked or that 
Hotel X agreed to waive their fee.
Taking all the above points together  I am not satisfied that Amex has done anything wrong 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  I also find the £50 Amex has said it has credited to 
Mr Bs account for the customer service-related issues to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman