Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store 
card. Im aware Miss T has a number of outstanding complaints of a similar nature with us, 
so to be clear, this one decision about the Top Shop card account she took out in 2004. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD . Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Miss T disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I appreciate she 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why this is.
Theres only very limited information available about this PPI sale from either party in this 
complaint. But it looks like the account was probably taken out by filling out an application 
leaflet in the shop. PPI was added on to the store card account and Miss T says she doesnt 
remember being told much about it or agreeing to add the PPI
I can understand that Miss T honestly and genuinely doesnt remember asking for the PPI 
particularly as I see that not much PPI seems to have ever been charged to her account. 
The account also appears to have been closed for many years.
However, weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around 
that time. And weve spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of 
the processes that were generally used around the early 2000s when we think this PPI sale 
happened. We know, for example, that consumers were asked to fill out a card account 
application which was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI 
were included in what the applicant was given to complete. 
We no longer have access to the actual form and credit agreement Miss T filled out when 
she took out her card, but my experience is that there would have been a section on the 
application leaflet about the PPI. This would have invited her to either sign her name - or 
DRN-1156159leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. There would also have been some brief 
details about the cost and other aspects of the PPI inside this box.
I think its more likely Miss T ticked or signed at this point and therefore agreed to the PPI. 
This is because we now know that PPI was added  theres no dispute about that. I also 
think she would have had access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above and I 
think the PPI (when added) would have prominently shown up on her monthly store card 
account statements.
So I think she probably consented to the PPI cover. I think shed have been equally free to 
not have asked for the PPI during the card application and if she hadnt agreed to the PPI 
she would have wanted to know what the periodic charges were for. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Miss T to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
PPI cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in 
a better way, but overall, I do think Miss T probably had access to enough information to 
allow her to make an informed decision. 
Miss T told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Miss T says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Miss T was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any 
other means Miss T had in place at the time. 
For me to uphold Miss Ts complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt 
given an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply 
dont have that evidence. Instead, I think Miss T is more likely to have selected the PPI and 
had access nearby to the information she needed about the policy and its rules. I dont think 
theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have changed how Miss T 
acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman