DRN-2722388
The complaint
Miss K complains that Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, (Varooma), lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss K was given two loans by Varooma from October 2016 to January 2017. Both loans 
have been repaid.  A summary of Miss Ks borrowing history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Loan amount Repayment 
dateNumber of monthly repayments 
and monthly repayment 
amounts
1. 15/10/2016 £2,000 6/1/2017 24 x £208.33
2. 6/1/2017 £2,700 8/6/2018 60 x £202.50
The loans were log book loans. They were granted on the basis that Miss K provided 
Varooma with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss K didnt make her loan 
repayments, Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the car.
Miss K said that it would have been clear from her bank statements and credit history that 
she was already in lots of debt and the loans were very unaffordable due to the amount she 
was paying out each month on other debts. In addition, the interest was very high. Every 
month Miss K phoned Varooma to say she couldnt afford the full repayment amount and it 
allowed her to pay a lot less. But this meant the interest increased. There were many months 
where she skipped payments, or the monthly payment was reduced dramatically. Miss K 
said that if she didnt have a vehicle, then she wouldnt have been able to travel to work as 
this was not possible via public transport. She also said that the loans not only created a 
vicious circle of debt, but they also affected her personal life and made her very ill and 
anxious every month.
In its final response letter, Varooma said that full income and expenditure information was 
obtained from Miss K to ensure suitability and affordability. These figures were then checked 
at its onsite appointment to ensure that the figures provided matched. On both occasions the 
figures were verified, and the loans were approved.  
Our adjudicators views
The adjudicator issued two views. The adjudicators first view upheld Miss Ks complaint 
about Loan 2. But Miss K then provided further information and Varooma clarified that    
Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2. 
The adjudicators second view recommended that the complaint about both loans should be 
upheld. He said that based on the term and the cost of these loans, he didnt think 
Varoomas checks were proportionate. He thought that proportionate checks shouldve 
included obtaining a thorough knowledge of Miss Ks financial circumstances  including 
verifying this information. He had considered her credit report. Hed seen that in the twelve 
months prior to Loan 1 being taken, Miss K had defaulted on six accounts (four credit card 
accounts and two mail order accounts). The adjudicator said that this alone should have 
alerted Varooma to Miss K having problems managing her money. In addition to this, hed 
seen that she had two short term loans outstanding.
Varooma disagreed. It referred to Miss Ks credit report, which the adjudicator had sent it 
following his second view, and said that half of the loans shown on the report would not have 
been flagged up at the time of application. Where Miss K had defaulted accounts, she had 
made payment plan arrangements as the balances were seen to be reducing on the majority 
of them. Varooma provided its electronic credit checks but said that neither showed any 
cause for concern. In addition, Varooma said that on both occasions a full income and 
expenditure was completed to ensure affordability and suitability. These figures were then 
checked at the onsite appointment to ensure the figures provided matched. On both 
occasions the figures were verified, and the loans were approved. On the second loan 
application, no other creditors were reported but Miss K had a surplus of roughly £970, 
which would have allowed for her to pay other creditors as well as Varooma.
The adjudicator responded to say that the number of defaulted accounts in the twelve 
months prior to the first loan were enough to have indicated that Miss K had clear problems 
managing her money, regardless of subsequent arrangements being put into place with her 
creditors. And he wasnt persuaded that an accurate picture was taken at the time of the 
applications of Miss Ks income and expenditure. He appreciated that Varooma had said that 
these figures were verified onsite, but from his review of Miss K's bank statements he didnt 
feel that the figures were accurate.
Varooma responded to say that it did not decide to lend based solely on Miss Ks credit file. 
The income and expenditure figures were agreed with Miss K and there was nothing flagged 
that highlighted that she could not manage her money. Varooma also referred to Miss Ks 
surplus income of more than £900.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss K 
and to Varooma on 15 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry that Miss K had suffered ill health as a result of her loans.
Id noted that when Varooma lent to Miss K the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I explained that the relevant rules said that a lender must undertake a reasonable 
assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making 
the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess
creditworthiness. However, the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over 
the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Whilst it was down to the lender to 
decide what specific checks it wished to carry out, these should be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.So, Varoomas assessment needed to be flexible  what was reasonable for one borrower 
might not be so for another, or what might be reasonable for a borrower for one loan 
application might not be so for the same borrower for a different loan. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a consumer would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the consumer would required to make 
repayments for an extended period) and
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a consumer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ks case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing   
Miss Ks loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown?
- Did Varooma make fair lending decisions?
Did Varooma complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ks loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
I could see that Varoomas loan application process included gathering information from    
Miss K about her income and expenditure and carrying out a credit check. Miss K also 
signed an income and expenditure statement. The statements were signed by Miss K to 
declare that the information shed provided was an accurate statement of her income and 
expenditure and proof of her ability to repay the loan. The statements also said that Miss K 
believed that her income was adequate for meeting the additional monthly loan commitment. 
Loan 1
Before Loan 1, Varooma carried out a credit check. The information about the credit check it 
had supplied to us showed a credit score of 518 and some ratios of debt and payments to 
income. Varooma said that the ratio of unsecured debt was low. The check also showed that 
the value of Miss Ks unsecured balances was zero. These checks were brief, but I couldnt 
safely say that they would have caused Varooma any concerns. 
Varooma had also told us that five of Miss Ks loans showing on the copy of the credit report 
shed provided would not have been flagged up at the time of her application due to their 
respective dates and status and they were not defaulted at the time of the loan applications 
with it. I could see that four of the five loans Varooma referred to were granted after Loan 2. I 
could also see that one of the loans was granted just before Loan 2 and I accepted that it 
might not yet have been applied to Miss Ks credit file. I was also aware that when a lender carried out a credit check, the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would, and it wasnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a consumers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, this might have explained 
any differences between the information provided by Varoomas credit check and Miss Ks 
actual situation.
A signed statement of Miss Ks income and expenses was attached to the Loan Agreement 
for Loan 1. The statement showed Miss Ks monthly income of £1,500 and her expenses. 
Her expenses included rent, mobile, car insurance, gym and petrol. I could see that these 
totalled £269. The statement showed that she had no other debts. It also showed that Miss K 
had a surplus income of £814.67 after Varoomas monthly loan repayment was taken into 
account. 
Varooma said that it had seen Miss Ks payslip and her bank statement for the period from   
1 September 2016 to 14 October 2016. It said that it had used the statements to verify that 
the loan repayments were affordable. It provided this Service with the statements it had 
seen.
I could see from Miss Ks payslip that the income declared by Miss K in her statement to 
Varooma was broadly correct. But Miss Ks payslip for the previous month was £165 lower 
as she hadnt worked overtime that month. So, I didnt think Varooma could necessarily rely 
on a monthly income of £1,500 going forward.
I could also see from the bank statements which Varooma had seen that Miss Ks expenses 
were substantially higher than the amount shed declared to it in her statement. Id looked at 
the transactions in the month prior to the loan. Whilst Miss K told Varooma she had no other 
debt, it was clear from her bank statements that she was paying around £150 to two short 
term lenders. Shed also told Varooma she was paying nothing for food or drink, but Id seen 
expenditure of around £400 on these and chemist items. Miss K had also paid out around 
£450 to three individuals. It appeared that at least some of this money was to repay loans 
from friends. Shed also received around £260 from family that month. I could see that some 
of this was used to supplement her income when her bank balance was near to being 
overdrawn. Miss K had told us that she was living with her parents during this time. Whilst 
she had agreed to pay them £120 a month, most months her family would end up giving her 
money throughout the month. During this period, she didnt make a full payment for keep 
and just paid what she could at the time.
The rules that applied to Varooma at the time expressly said it mustnt accept an application 
for credit if it knew or had reasonable cause to suspect that a borrower hadnt been truthful 
in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness
assessment. 
I didnt think Varoomas checks were proportionate here because there was a discrepancy
between what Miss K had said about her expenses and credit and what it could see through 
its checks. 
So, I thought Varooma should either have carried out further checks  to see if there were 
good reasons for this difference  or it shouldnt have provided Miss K with the loan. Miss K 
was entering into a substantial commitment with Varooma and it should have taken great 
care to ensure that she was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. I thought this 
was especially the case given the cost of the credit, that she needed to make monthly 
payments on Loan 1 of £208.33 for 24 months, and that there was the possibility of her losing her car if she didnt manage to keep up her repayments. Id noted that Miss K said 
that she relied on her car to get to work. So, it was important for her to keep her car.
So overall, I didnt think the checks Varooma carried out on this occasion were fair or 
proportionate. And I thought that Varooma needed to do more to get a thorough 
understanding of Miss Ks financial position before agreeing to her first loan to reasonably 
assess the risk to Miss K of not managing to meet her repayments sustainably. It could have 
done this by, for example, requesting additional bank statements from Miss K, asking for 
copies of bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information about 
her existing credit commitments. 
Loan 2
Id noted that Miss K took out Loan 2 almost three months after taking out Loan 1. The loan 
amount had increased to £2,700. The loan proceeds were used to repay Loan 1 and Miss K 
received the balance of around £469. Loan 2 was to be repaid over the far longer period of 
60 months with monthly payments of £202.50. 
Before Loan 2, I could see that Varooma had again asked Miss K for information about her 
income and expenses. It had also carried out a credit check. The information about the credit 
checks it had supplied to us showed a credit score and some ratios of debt and payments to 
income. Varooma said that the ratio of unsecured debt was low. The checks also showed 
that the value of Miss Ks unsecured balances was zero. Varooma said that the credit score 
had slightly decreased between the two loans but the ratio of debt to income only increased 
ever so slightly. No county court judgements or recent defaults were flagged or mentioned 
on the credit check. Varooma said that the decreased credit score of 467 might have been 
due to Loan 1 being registered between loan applications.
The credit checks Id seen were brief, but I couldnt safely say that they would have caused 
Varooma any concerns. But, as Id said above there were reasons why Varoomas checks 
might not have reflected Miss Ks actual situation.
A signed statement of Miss Ks income and expenses was attached to the Loan Agreement 
for Loan 2. The statement showed Miss Ks monthly income of £1,555 and her expenses. 
Her expenses included groceries, eating out, car tax, mobile, car insurance, gym and petrol. 
I could see that these totalled £375. The statement showed that she had no other debts and 
spent nothing on credit, toiletries and clothes. It also showed that Miss K had a surplus 
income of £972.50 after Varoomas monthly loan repayment was taken into account. 
I could see that Varooma saw Miss Ks payslip and her bank statements for the period            
3 January 2017 to 5 January 2017. So, it had only obtained evidence of Miss Ks 
transactions for three days. Varooma had sent us copies of these.
I could see from Miss Ks payslip that her income included a Xmas bonus. So, her usual 
monthly income at the time was more likely around £1,400 after tax. It was also clear from 
the bank statements which Varooma had seen that her expenses were substantially higher 
than shed declared to it in her statement, even though it had only seen bank statements for 
three days. Whilst Miss K told Varooma she had no other credit or debt, it was clear from her 
bank statements that she was paying £62 to a debt collection company and that she had 
made two payments to a high cost credit lender. Shed also told Varooma she was paying 
nothing for clothes and toiletries, but Id seen expenditure on clothes and toiletries in the 
statements. In addition, Miss K had said that her monthly expenses were £375, but her living 
costs and credit commitments over just three days were around £470.I didnt think Varoomas checks were proportionate here because there was a clear 
discrepancy between what Miss K had said about her expenses and credit and what it could 
see through its own checks. 
So, for the same reasons as for Loan 1, I thought Varooma should either have carried out 
further checks  to see if there were good reasons for this difference  or it shouldnt have 
provided Miss K with the loan.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Loan 1
Id thought about what Varooma wouldve seen if it had done what I considered to be 
proportionate checks. 
Id reviewed Miss Ks credit report and bank statements to understand what her income, 
living costs, and credit commitments were around that time. Id also taken into account her 
borrowing and spending patterns to get a better picture of her financial situation. I wasnt 
suggesting that these were the checks that Varooma should have done. But I thought 
looking at her credit report and bank statements gave me the best picture of Miss Ks wider 
circumstances which the lender would have likely seen if it had made better checks.
 
I thought if Varooma had made better checks, it was likely to have seen that Miss K had 
more debt than shed said and that shed been facing significant problems managing her 
money for some time. Id seen on Miss Ks credit report that there was a credit card account 
which had been defaulted around two weeks prior to her application for Loan 1, another two 
credit card accounts had been defaulted less than five months before her application and 
another three accounts had been defaulted around ten months before her application. Five 
of the defaulted balances were outstanding and the balances totalled around £3,568. No part 
of these balances appeared to have been repaid before Miss Ks loan application. In 
addition, I could see that Miss K had taken out two short term loans totalling £600 two 
months earlier. These were still outstanding and would have been repayable at the same 
time as Loan 1. 
As mentioned above, I thought the bank statements the lender saw would have shown     
Miss K had a much lower disposable income than shed declared. A wider selection of bank 
statements showed a similar story. I thought the regular spending and borrowing patterns Id 
seen on Miss Ks bank statements between August 2016 and October 2016 as well as her 
existing debt would likely have caused Varooma concerns had it made better checks before 
lending Loan 1 to Miss K. In Miss Ks circumstances, I thought it would have seen that there 
were indications of financial difficulty and there was a significant risk that she wouldnt have 
been able to make her loan repayments. So, I wasnt persuaded that Varooma had acted 
fairly in providing Loan 1 to Miss K.
Loan 2
Had Varooma carried out a proportionate check here it would likely have seen that Miss K 
had only repaid one of her defaulted accounts since taking out Loan 1. And Miss Ks credit 
report didnt show any other repayments towards the other four defaulted debts prior to the 
application for Loan 2. I could also see from Miss Ks credit report and bank statements that 
shed taken out a payday loan for £450 the previous month (December 2016) and one for 
£300 the month before that.Id also reviewed Miss Ks bank statements for November and December 2016. As well as 
the two short term loans referred to above, she was repaying another payday loan in those 
months. Shed also received a further £122 from family and repaid loans from friends 
totalling £1,450 over the two months. The rest of her living costs and credit commitments in 
December 2016 totalled around £900. I again thought the regular spending and borrowing 
patterns Id seen on Miss Ks bank statements in those months as well as her existing debt 
would likely have caused Varooma concerns had it made better checks before lending   
Loan 2 to Miss K. I again thought the lender would have seen that there were indications of 
financial difficulty. And it should have had concerns about the risk to Miss K of not being able 
to make repayments over the far longer term of 60 months and the potential difficulties or 
adverse consequences for her. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think Varooma should 
have given Loan 2 to Miss K. 
Subject to any further representations by Miss K or Varooma my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Varooma to put things right as 
follows. 
Putting things right  what Varooma needs to do
Varooma should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss K on Loans 1 and 2.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to   
Loans 1 and 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma must 
give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss K responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with the decision 
and there was nothing else she wished to add.
Varooma responded to my provisional decision to say that it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss K and Varooma have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  
the complaint and require Varooma to pay Miss K some compensation and take the steps as 
set out above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Greenlight Credit Limited, trading as Varooma, to pay Miss K the compensation and to 
take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  what Varooma needs 
to do. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Roslyn RawsonOmbudsman