DRN-3285557
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC didnt change the way they recorded her name when 
she asked them to.
What happened
Miss H has a number of accounts with Lloyds, and she says they recorded her name 
incorrectly because there are two parts to her first name, and Lloyds recorded the second 
part as her middle name. 
Miss H went into a Lloyds branch with identification to have her name corrected and says the 
member of staff she spoke to went on to the system, did something and told her it had been 
changed. Miss H says, when she logged into her online banking a few days later, she 
noticed her name still appeared incorrectly.
 
Lloyds recognised the service she received in branch fell short of customer expectations and 
paid her £50 compensation. They said the staff member should have explained that if a 
customers first name has a space in it, the second part would automatically default to a 
middle name. And the only resolution available currently is to hyphenate her name. Miss H 
doesnt think this resolves the matter and says her name shouldnt be changed to suit their 
system. She also says the branch staff didnt go through security verification checks with her 
before accessing her account.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further here. He reiterated that the 
only solution available for the issue would be to hyphenate Miss Hs name. He also 
explained that he couldnt tell Lloyds to change their system, and that would be the role of 
the regulator. He thought the £50 compensation they paid was in line with what he would 
expect to see for a complaint like this. Our investigator also said it was more than likely the 
branch staff could verify Miss H through the identification she provided. 
Miss H didnt agree and asked for a final decision. She says Lloyds didnt offer a proper 
solution and thinks they should be able to change their system. Miss H also thinks they 
should offer more than £50 compensation because it involved unacceptable service and her 
time was wasted in trying to rectify the issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and Ill explain 
why.
Lloyds say their system automatically records the second part of Miss Hs name as a middle 
name and currently the only way they can resolve this issue would be to hyphenate her first 
name. The way in which Lloyds organises their internal systems and processes, such as the 
IT systems they choose to use, is a commercial matter for them to decide internally. Its not 
something we would look to interfere with. So, Ive thought about whether theyve treated 
Miss H fairly and taken reasonable steps to resolve the matter for her, and I think they have. 
Lloyds suggested the only alternative theyre systems would allow, I can appreciate why 
Miss H isnt happy with this as a resolution to the issue, as this is not how her name is 
usually written. And I dont think it is unreasonable of her to ask for her name to be recorded 
in its correct format. Unfortunately, the limitations of their IT systems mean Lloyds cant 
record Miss Hs name as she would like it. While I accept the resolution isnt ideal, Im 
satisfied Lloyds have done all they reasonably can to try to resolve things for Miss H. Miss H 
told us shes aware other banks can accommodate her request. Shes also told us she is 
strongly considering taking her business elsewhere. If she remains dissatisfied with the 
options available to her with Lloyds, Miss H may find another bank is better able to cater to 
her needs.
Its not disputed that Miss H was given misleading information in branch. So, I can 
understand how frustrating it will have been to find her name still appeared in the same way 
when she was told it had been updated. Im glad to see the banks actions havent caused 
any financial loss to Miss H, however it meant she had to take time out of her day to phone 
Lloyds to try to resolve things. Miss H doesnt think the £50 compensation they paid is 
enough, but Im satisfied its fair compensation for the short period of inconvenience and the 
frustration she was caused. 
 
Our investigator thought it was likely the staff member at the branch verified Miss H using 
the driving licence she provided to them. I can understand why Miss H may have had some 
concerns, but I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by using her driving licence as proof of 
her identity.  
I know this will be disappointing to Miss H but for the reasons Ive mentioned, Im satisfied 
Lloyds treated her fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint, so I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman