DRN-2937312
The complaint
Mr A complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) has treated him 
unfairly in the way it has deducted an annual administration charge before transferring the 
value of his self-invested pension plan (SIPP) to another provider.
What happened
Mr A opened a SIPP with Standard Life in October 2011. At that time, Standard Life had 
been chosen by his employer to provide its pension scheme for its employees. So, the SIPP 
that Mr A opened only received contributions from his then employer, and Mr A was required 
by his employer to invest his pension savings into a single investment fund. 
Standard Life says that it wrote to Mr A in November 2011 to confirm his SIPP had been 
opened  it has sent us a copy of the letter it sent to Mr As home address. And that letter 
stated that a document setting out the terms and conditions of the SIPP (document 
reference SLSIP62) was included.
The terms and conditions set out how Standard Life would view the various types of 
investments that could be held in the SIPP. They were categorised into three groups and 
referred to as inner ring, middle ring and outer ring. The annual administration charge 
that would be levied for the SIPP by Standard Life would be increased if middle ring, or outer 
ring, investments were held for any part of the year. The administration charges were 
payable annually in arrears. But as part of its pension provision Mr As employer agreed with 
Standard Life that it would meet the administration charges whilst the SIPP holders 
remained in their employment.
Mr A left his employer in mid-2012. So at that time its contributions to Mr As SIPP ceased. 
Standard Life has sent us a copy of the letter it sent to Mr A about the ending of those 
payments. And Standard Life says that since Mr A had left his employer he needed to meet 
the annual administration charges himself. So it says the first charge was levied, on the 
anniversary of his SIPP being opened, in November 2012.
Mr A says that he was unaware that annual charges were being taken from his pension 
savings. He says that he didnt receive any information when the SIPP was first opened. And 
that he hasnt received statements showing the charges in the intervening years. In 
September 2019 Mr A started a new job and decided to consolidate all his pension savings 
into the new employers occupational scheme. He says that at that time he discovered the 
charges that Standard Life had made over the years  and that some of his pension 
investments had been sold to fund those fees. And, since his pension savings couldnt be 
disinvested until early in 2020 in order to be transferred to the new scheme, Standard Life 
told Mr A that he would need to pay a full years administration charge on leaving the SIPP.
Standard Life had initially responded to Mr A and addressed part of his complaint. But it says 
that it failed to identify that Mr As complaint was wider than its response suggested. So it 
has subsequently sent him a further, more comprehensive, response to the complaint. And it 
paid Mr A £200 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. Mr A accepted much of what 
Standard Life had said, and accepted the £200 it had offered. But he said that he still 
thought that the charge that had been levied on his transfer from the SIPP was unfair. So he 
asked that matter be considered by this Service.
One of our investigators has looked into this part of Mr As complaint. He thought that it was 
reasonable for Standard Life to deduct a further annual administration charge from Mr As 
pension savings before it made the transfer. He thought that Standard Life had acted within 
its terms and conditions. So he didnt think that Standard Life had done anything wrong, or 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr A appears to have accepted Standard Lifes explanations about the charges that have 
been taken from his pension savings between 2012 and 2019. He has said that the only 
matter outstanding is the charge that was taken when his pension savings were being 
transferred to the new provider. But I think it would be helpful for me to touch on some things 
that happened before then.
Mr A was directed to open the SIPP with Standard Life by his then employer. I accept that he 
had little choice but to open this SIPP, if he wanted to receive the large monthly contributions 
that were made by his employer. But I agree with Standard Life that much of the explanation 
about the SIPP would have formed part of the discussions between Mr A and his employer 
about commencing the pension arrangements.
But that doesnt mean that Standard Life didnt need to add its own explanation about the 
SIPP when it was opened by Mr A. And the evidence Standard Life has sent us suggests 
that it did write to Mr A at the time, and send him a copy of the relevant terms and 
conditions. I appreciate that Mr A doesnt recall receiving that letter. But it was sent to his 
correct home address, and Standard Life would have had no reason to conclude that it 
hadnt been safely received. So I think the terms and conditions that were sent to Mr A 
reasonably formed the basis of his relationship with Standard Life.But the basis on which Mr A initially operated the SIPP was different to that set out in the 
terms and conditions. As I said earlier, Mr As employer agreed to pay the annual 
administration charges for its employees. But when Mr A left that employer, that benefit 
would reasonably have ceased. I dont think it was for Standard Life to make Mr A aware of 
that change  I think that should have formed part of his exit discussions with his employer.
When the SIPP was first set up, a third-party firm appointed by Mr As employer was noted 
as the advisor on the plan. That advisor remained on the plan after Mr A had left his 
employer  Standard Life would have needed an instruction from Mr A to make any change. 
So, when Mr As SIPP held insufficient cash to pay the annual administration fees, in line 
with the terms and conditions, Standard Life wrote to the advisor. It seems that the advisor 
failed to pass that information onto Mr A. So, again in line with the terms and conditions, 
Standard Life sold some of Mr As pension investments to generate sufficient cash to pay the 
charges.
The investment fund that Mr A held in his SIPP (that had been chosen by his former 
employer) was identified by Standard Life as an outer ring investment. So the annual 
administration charge that Mr A would need to pay was at the highest band. And 
section 10.7 of those terms clearly states that the outer ring charge would become due if, in 
the previous year, assets of that nature had been held at any time.
Mr A instructed Standard Life to liquidate his pension investments, in readiness for their 
transfer to the new provider, on 27 November 2019. That was ten days into the start of the 
charging year that was applicable to Mr As SIPP. And the fund manager told Standard Life 
that the disinvestment couldnt take place until 2 January 2020 with the proceeds being paid 
on 16 January. So I think it is clear that Mr A held outer ring assets for at least a part of the 
charging period that would run from November 2019 to November 2020. So I think it was 
reasonable, and in line with the terms and conditions, for Standard Life to charge the outer 
ring fee. There is no provision within those terms for any prorating of that charge when the 
transfer takes place during the charging year.
I understand Mr As frustration that the fee was payable in its entirety. He says that 
Standard Life failed to explain the charge to him when he gave his transfer instruction. But, 
even if that were the case, Im not persuaded it has caused him to lose out. His instruction 
was given ten days into the new charging period so the charge had already become due. 
And the further delay  whilst caused by the disinvestment process of the investment 
manager rather than Standard Life  made no difference to the amount that Mr A was 
charged.
So I think that Standard Life acted in line with the relevant terms and conditions when it 
deducted the annual administration charge before transferring Mr As pension savings to the 
new provider. I dont think Mr As complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman