DRN-3339327
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) never explained to him that if he kept 
his Gold Service account balance above a certain amount, hed not have to pay the monthly 
account fee. 
What happened
Lloyds wrote to Mr P in June 2021 to explain that it will be removing all fee-waivers from the 
Gold Service account. Mr P says he was unaware that this was ever an option available to 
him, so he complained to Lloyds as he says he wouldve made use of this feature had he 
been made aware of it. Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong, but in its response to 
the complaint, did offer to pay Mr P £44.85 to cover three months of the Gold Service 
account fees.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr P said that hed like a refund of the account fees from the 
point that he changed his use of his account so that he only credited enough money into the 
account to cover the monthly fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based on everything that is available. 
And having considered everything, overall, Ive not seen enough to say that Lloyds did act 
unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Lloyds says that Mr P was sold the Gold Service account on 15 June 1998, however due to 
the large timescales involved, unsurprisingly Lloyds has not been able to provide evidence 
from the time to show what mayve been discussed with Mr P when the account was sold to 
him. So I have considered the likelihood of whether Mr P was not told about the fee-waiver 
on the Gold Service account. 
Overall, based on the evidence that is available, I think that it is likely he was told about this 
feature. The reason why I say this is because firstly, I cant see any reason why the feature 
of the account would not have been mentioned. Afterall, it wouldve been in Lloyds interest 
to point out all the features of the account to make it seem attractive to Mr P, so that hed 
agree to it. 
In addition to this, having looked through the historic account literature that was provided to 
Gold Service account holders around the time that itd been sold to Mr P, I can see that 
these do make it clear that a fee-waiver was a feature of the account at the time. And it 
appears that Lloyds did write to all existing Gold Service account holders in April 2001 and 
April 2004 to explain that the fee-wavier amount was increasing from £1,000 to £1,500 and 
then from £1,500 to £2,000, respectively. 
Im also mindful that the account was sold to Mr P 23 years ago. So I cant rule out the 
possibility that he was told about it, but by the time Mr P changed to only paying in enough 
money to cover the monthly fee, he had simply forgotten it had ever been a feature. I say 
this especially as it seems that Lloyds stopped offering the fee-waiver benefit to new 
customers from around 2004. This resulted in this feature being omitted when notifying 
account holders of any changes made to the account in more recent years. 
Finally, I understand that Mr P says that Lloyds shouldve monitored his accounts to see if he 
was able to meet the fee-waiver criteria and reminded him that a fee-waiver existed as a 
feature on his Gold Service account. However, Lloyds was not required to do this. So whilst I 
agree it wouldve been good customer service had it done so, equally I cant say that Lloyds 
has done anything wrong if it didnt.
Overall, I do understand Mr Ps frustration, especially as he says he had the means to meet 
the fee-waiver criteria whilst he held the Gold account. But based on everything I have seen, 
Ive not seen enough to say that Lloyds likely did fail to explain the fee-waiver feature when 
Mr P took out the account in June 1998.
As such, in the circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund the 
Gold account fees that Mr P has paid.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds Bank Plc needs to do anything more beyond what it has 
already agreed to do in its final response letter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman