DRN-2136024
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) have caused 
him difficulties in accessing online banking on his account with them. 
What happened
Mr S came to us as he was unhappy with the Final Response Letter (FRL) hed received 
from Virgin Money when he complained about being unable to use one time passcodes to 
access his online account. He thought the response  upholding his complaint - was generic 
and was unhappy with the £50 compensation Virgin Money paid, on two counts. Firstly, that 
it wasnt sufficient redress for the inconvenience hed suffered and secondly as it and been 
sent by cheque rather than paid direct into his account as an online.
Our investigator thought Virgin Money, in apologising and compensating Mr S, had acted 
reasonably and in line with what this service would have offered, if the bank hadnt upheld it. 
So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree with the view. He thought the investigator had rushed dealing with his 
complaint and that there were material inaccuracies in her view. He asked for his complaint 
to go to an ombudsman for a number of reasons. Firstly, as hed never successfully 
accessed the app associated with banking on this account  Mr S said Virgin told him his 
access to the app was blocked for reasons relating to his phone, but these were incorrect. 
Secondly, he was unsure why the compensation had been paid by cheque on this occasion, 
as previous goodwill payments hed received from Virgin Money were credited to direct to his 
account and that was more convenient. Finally, he repeated that he didnt think the 
compensation paid was reasonable as Virgin Money didnt allow him to access his mobile or 
internet banking. And the compensation didnt include his consequential losses such as 
postage costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S feels our investigator hasnt properly understood aspects of his 
complaint and considered it in haste. Ive looked at everything afresh before reaching an 
independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold. 
Theres no dispute Mr S had difficulties with the one time access codes here. But Virgin 
Money apologised, explained why and how this came about and paid £50 compensation. I 
consider the action theyve taken to be a reasonable response to the initial complaint, for a 
number of reasons. 
I appreciate Mr S thinks the FRL was a generic response. To a certain extent, I think the 
banks explanation has to be, as it is explaining a problem across their systems that affected 
many accounts. But I dont think that means the entire response is generic, or that it hasnt 
considered the details particular to Mr Ss situation. Its clear from the FRL and the complaint 
notes theyve sent us that, not only have they looked and addressed the system wide 
problems but, also, specifically Mr Ss account. And, although I know Mr S will disagree, I 
dont think Virgin Money did anything wrong when they didnt include the complaint reference 
Mr S gave them in the FRL.
It isnt my role to punish businesses for making mistakes; its my role to put consumers back 
into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt been made. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Ss comments about the impact of this matter on him. I can see this issue 
caused some inconvenience but theres no detail  in the initial complaint or his reply to the 
view - other than passcodes not being sent both to mobile and landlines on 13 March 2020. 
So, Im not persuaded, in the overall circumstances, that I can fairly ask Virgin Money to pay 
anymore. 
Even if I accept Mr S couldnt access to the banking app to pay in the compensation cheque 
after the FRL, I dont think its reasonable that Virgin Money should bear the courier costs he 
incurred to pay it in. Firstly, they cant have anticipated hed incur those costs. The Virgin 
Money website states cheques can be posted to their Registered Main Office  theres no 
requirement for a courier  to pay in. And I cant see that he attempted to contact them, by 
email or calling, to request payment direct to his account, despite him telling us he knew this 
was possible from previous goodwill payments. Overall, I think the redress theyve already 
paid is reasonable and in line with what I would have suggested, had it not already been 
offered. So, I find the award of £50 is fair and reasonable.  
Given that Mr S feels strongly about this, he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with 
Virgin Money informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman