DRN-3445185
The complaint
Mr G, a sole trader, has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down his 
business interruption insurance claim after he was forced to close his business premises due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr C has brought the complaint on Mr Gs behalf. For simplicity Ill refer to Mr G throughout.
What happened
Mr G held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. He runs a public house.
Mr G claimed on the policy for his business interruption losses caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Covea declined the claim. It said the claim wasnt covered because Covid-19 
wasnt on the list of specified diseases covered by the policy. It said the claim also wasnt 
covered under the public emergency extension because there was an exclusion for losses 
caused by infectious or contagious diseases.
Mr G complained to Covea. Unhappy with Coveas response, Mr G brought his complaint to 
us. 
Our Investigator investigated Mr Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Gs business. But I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy which 
might be relevant to Mr Gs claim in turn.
The core business interruption in the policy covers business interruption caused by:
an Incident caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under Material 
Damage Section.
Incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at the 
Premises.
Damage is defined as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
The Specified Perils or causes of damage in the Material Damage section of the policy 
include events such as fire, storm and accidental physical damage. Regardless of the cause 
of damage there has to be physical damage to property in order for a claim to be valid.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Mr Gs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical damage to Mr Gs 
property. So, I dont think Mr Gs claim was covered under this part of the policy.
There are various extensions to the core cover under the policy. One extension covers 
business interruption loss caused by Damage (as defined above) to property in the vicinity 
of Mr Gs premises which prevented or hindered the use or access to the premises. Again, 
there must have been physical damage to property. Since I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property in the vicinity of Mr Gs 
premises, I dont think this extension covers his claim.
Another extension to the policy covers loss arising from:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of

1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
Disease is defined as:
any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis, acute infectious 
hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, botulism, brucellosis, cholera, 
diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food poisoning, haemolytic uraemic
syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group A streptococcal disease, 
legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal septicaemia, mumps, plague, 
rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhus, viral 
haemorrhagic fever (VHF),whooping cough and yellow fever.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Gs policy is not like this  it sets 
out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of 
the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering any new diseases just because 
they are notifiable diseases. The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 
11 February 2020 So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say 
that these two diseases are the same.
Mr G has referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in The Financial Conduct Authority 
& Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 which he believes is relevant to this 
aspect of his complaint but, as our investigator explained, Mr Gs policy has a definitive list 
of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case.
Theres also an extension covering losses resulting from the actions or advice of a public 
authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life which prevents or hinders the use of or 
access to the premises. However, this extension specifically excludes emergencies caused 
by infectious or contagious diseases. The exclusion wording refers to diseases in the lower 
case and so it has its ordinary meaning as opposed to the definition of Disease in the 
policy. That means it excludes all infectious or contagious diseases. As Covid-19 is an 
infectious or contagious disease, Mr Gs claim isnt covered by this extension.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr G. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman