DRN-2939889
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for a transaction he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
On 6 November 2020, £950 credited Mr Ss Barclays bank account. The same day, £950 
was transferred out to a new payee. The payment was made using a Barclays mobile 
banking device ID which had been in place for at least five months and was linked to Mr Ss 
genuine mobile phone.
The next day, Mr S rang Barclays. He said he hadnt authorised the £950 transaction. He 
said hed had his phone, and his debit card, with him at work at the time of the disputed 
transaction. He said he hadnt told anyone or written down his Barclays passcode, nor had 
he given out any of his details to anyone through calls, emails or texts. He also said he 
hadnt downloaded anything onto his phone.
Mr S told Barclays that around mid-day, his phone had started behaving strangely, and he 
couldnt make calls or send messages. It had gone back to normal later in the afternoon. Mr 
S hadnt contacted his phone provider, but he told Barclays he thought his phone must have 
been hacked.
On 12 November, Barclays declined Mr Ss fraud claim. Mr S complained, but Barclays still 
refused to refund Mr S.
Mr S complained to this service. He said someone had hacked his phone from another 
device and had used it to transfer the £950 out of his account. He wanted Barclays to refund 
him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that hed seen that on 6 November, 
Mr Ss mobile had been used to log into his Barclays mobile banking. Access had been 
authorised using Mr Ss personal security code. 
And the money had been sent to a new payee. This meant that whoever set up the new 
payee would have needed Mr Ss debit card number, expiry date, and the security code on 
the back. 
The investigator also pointed out that there had been consistency between the IP address 
(the unique address which identifies a device on the internet) for the disputed transaction, 
and other transactions which Mr S hadnt disputed.
So he didnt disagree with Barclays belief that Mr S had authorised the transaction, or had 
authorised someone else to do it on his behalf.
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He said no-one had taken his phone or card, and hed had them with 
hm. He said he would sue Barclays and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in November 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, so Ive checked the computer 
records. These show that the disputed transaction was correctly authenticated.
The regulations say that the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and 
the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders 
can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if 
theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross 
negligence. So Ive gone on to consider who authorised the disputed payment.
Who authorised the disputed payment?
Mr S said he didnt authorise the payment and told our investigator that he believed his 
phone had been hacked, while still in his possession. Ive borne in mind that he said hed 
had his phone and debit card with him at work on 6 November when the payment was made. 
He said no-one else had access to his bank details, card or phone, and he hadnt written 
anything down. He didnt have any explanation for how someone else could have accessed 
these to carry out the disputed transaction. 
Computer records provide a great deal of factual information, and here, Ive seen the login 
records for 6 November. These show the IP address, which was one which had previously 
been used for genuine payments. They also show the device ID and phone number, which 
were those of Mr M. And they show that Mr Ms correct passcode was entered to log in. 
The computer payment records show the new payee was set up, and the payment made, at 
14:06. The computer details provide the IP address, which had been used for previous 
genuine payments, and the device ID, which was that of Mr S.
So whoever made the payment:
- would have to have known that an unusually large payment for £950 had credited Mr 
Ss account earlier the same day. The bank statements Ive seen for Mr Ss account 
show that his balance was normally under £50;
- did so from a location (IP address) previously used by Mr S for genuine transactions;
- had in their possession Mr Ss phone to log into Barclays mobile banking;
- knew Mr Ss correct Barclays passcode to log into Barclays mobile banking;
- had in their possession Mr Ss debit card, to set up the new payee by entering the 16 
digit card number, expiry date and the three digit security code on the back. 
In all the circumstances of the case, I find that its more likely than not that Mr S carried out 
the disputed transaction himself. Its possible he allowed someone else to  use his phone 
and card, and provided them with his security details  but if so, that would count at Mr S authorising the transaction. So I do not uphold this complaint and I dont require Barclays to 
refund Mr S
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman