DRN-3210302
The complaint
Miss A complains that Pockit Limited wont refund payments she didnt make from her 
account.
What happened
Miss A disputes payments made online from her Pockit account on 28 September 2020 for a 
total of £3,010. She says that she was unable to access her account that day and reported 
this as fraud. 
Pockit said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that it thought it most likely that Miss A had 
shared her details with someone else. It said that the bank that held the account of the 
recipient said that no funds remained.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Miss A refunded for the 
disputed amounts with simple interest at eight per cent per annum. He said that he had 
received limited information from Pockit about these payments before he issued a first view. 
Pockit had then provided information showing that the payments were made using a new IP 
address that had only been associated with the account from 16 September 2020. Miss A 
had received a student finance payment on 28 September 2020 and that was quickly paid 
away. She had contacted Pockit as she had still received a notification about one of the 
payments to her phone, and she provided a screenshot of this. Pockit told him that the 
information required to access the account then and make the payments was her email 
address, her password, and the answer to a security question. There had been multiple 
incorrect attempts before the security question was answered correctly. 
Miss A said she hadnt provided her information to anyone. The account password had been 
changed on 28 September 2020 and Miss A had reported that messages from her email 
account were being diverted. He found Miss A to be credible and that she hadnt authorised 
these payments. He saw little evidence of Pockit investigating these with her at the time. And 
he thought that the multiple attempts to answer the security question ought to have led 
Pockit to realise that unauthorised access was being attempted.
Pockit didnt provide any response to the further assessment from our investigator saying 
whether it agreed or not. So, it has been passed for an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Miss A either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
her account as Pockit says?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im going to be deciding what I think was 
most likely on a balance of probabilities.
Our investigator had asked Pockit for the authorisation logs for these payments. We havent 
received these, but I can see these payments were made when a successful log in had been 
made to the account. And Pockit has explained that to make the payments didnt require say 
a one-time passcode but a correct answer to a security question. I accept from what it says 
that the payments were most likely authenticated. There were three payments of £1,000 to 
one account and two for £5 to a different account.
The issue I need to decide is whether Miss A consented to the payments and so authorised 
them. I note the student finance for Miss A was paid into her account before the first 
disputed payment at 05:52 on the morning of 28 September 2020. The IP address involved 
had been used to access the account on a regular basis from 16 September 2020 and was 
one neither associated with Miss As location nor one that she had used before. And this is 
consistent with a third party monitoring the account for the money. Until 28 September 2020 
the password hadnt been changed and so Miss A would likely not have been alerted to any 
takeover of her account.
Miss A has shown that she received notifications to her phone of payments and has 
provided a screenshot relating to one of the disputed payments for £1,000. All the disputed 
payments had been made by 09:11 with a final payment of £5. And she had emailed Pockit 
at 09:09 that day saying her account had been hacked. She followed this up with a further 
email on 30 September 2020 and she spoke to Pockit about her claim and provided the 
information it requested. Shed explained that her emails seemed to be diverted and she 
hadnt received one about her student finance payment. 
She said she didnt hear about the outcome until after she contacted this service. Pockit 
declined her complaint on 27 November 2020 but didnt explain its investigation. In January 
2021 it wrote to her and said that the bank that held the account that had received £3,000 of 
the money didnt have any funds remaining. When it wrote to this service in October 2021 
after the investigators first view it asked that we contact that bank about who received the 
money. Thats something Id have expected it to investigate when it declined the fraud claim 
and its fairly up to Pockit to support its case with evidence.
Pockit says that a third party would have needed to discover Miss As security details. And 
that it was unlikely to have been possible if her phone say had been stolen. In any event she 
told it that this hadnt happened and nor had she changed her phone. Her email address in 
my view could have been easy to discover and was her username for her Pockit account. 
And somehow her Pockit password and it seems her security question were compromised 
which isnt impossible. I find that the multiple incorrect attempts at the security question 
which Pockit said exceeded ten times that day are a strong indication that someone didnt 
have authority to access her account. Its a matter for Pockit to decide exactly what security 
measures it puts in place but here there was a clear opportunity to stop these payments 
being made without some confirmation from Miss A. 
Ive balanced all the information in coming to a view. Like our investigator I consider what 
Miss As has said to Pockit and this service to be consistent and her testimony to be reliable. 
I consider it most likely her Pockit account was somehow taken over by an unknown third 
party and that she didnt consent to and so authorise these payments. So, I will be requiring Pockit to refund the money to her and pay her simple interest as our investigator 
recommended.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Pockit Ltd to:
1) Refund £3,010 to Miss A.
2) Pay simple interest of eight percent per annum on the refund in 1) above from 28 
September 2020 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman