DRN-4035381
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that an ATM failed to dispense cash from her account with Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax but the amount was deducted from her account.
What happened
Mrs Y provided her debit card and PIN to her husband in July 2022 to withdrawal £200 from 
her account with Halifax. Mrs Y says her husband attempted twice to withdraw the cash, but 
nothing was dispensed, although £200 was debited to her account the same day. Mrs Y told 
Halifax what had happened, and it refunded the £200 to Mrs Ys account whilst it carried out 
an investigation and contacted the ATM owner. After Halifax completed its investigation it 
debited Mrs Ys account with £200 plus a small amount on interest as it believed the cash 
had been dispensed.
When Mrs Y complained to Halifax it said its investigation and the responses it received from 
the ATM owner supported that the ATM was working correctly at the time and that the £200 
was dispensed correctly. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Y brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the investigation and 
correspondence from the ATM provider supported that the cash had been dispensed. Mrs Y 
didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs Y will be disappointed, but the evidence and submissions Ive 
considered persuade me that its more likely than not the ATM dispensed the £200 and Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
Mrs Y says that her husband attempted to withdraw cash from the ATM twice and it didnt 
dispense cash at either attempt. The ATM provider has supplied a log of the transactions 
attempted on the debit card at the time Mrs Y says her husband attempted to withdraw cash. 
This supports that there were three balance enquiries followed by one cash withdrawal of 
£200. These transactions were completed within two and a half minutes and there is nothing 
to suggest two attempts were made to withdrawal cash. 
In respect of the withdrawal itself, the data provided from the ATM owner records that £200 
was dispensed and that this was made up of ten £20 notes. This coincides with additional 
data showing that the number of £20 notes in the ATM declined by ten at the time of the 
withdrawal. Ive seen additional data surrounding the withdrawals made from the ATM before 
and after the withdrawal Mrs Y complains about. This data supports that the notes issued, 
the notes remaining and the rejected notes, are consistent with what I would expect to see if 
the £200 had been dispensed by the ATM. The number of purged notes  notes that were 
rejected  remained the same before and after the withdrawal made using Mrs Ys debit 
card, so Im persuaded no notes were sent to the purge bin at the time of the withdrawal.
Ive noted the comments from Mrs Y that CCTV from the ATM would have helped establish if 
the withdrawal took place. The CCTV records are held by the ATM owner and are only kept 
for a short period of time. Halifax confirmed with the ATM provider that they are no longer 
available. However, regardless of this, the evidence Ive referred to above is enough to 
persuade me its more likely than not the cash was dispensed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ys complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman