DRN-3956705
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont allow his wife to be added on 
to his current account.
What happened
Mr H contacted HSBC about adding his wife to his current account and Mr H was told to 
attend a HSBC branch with his wife with the necessary ID and Mr Hs wife would be able to 
be added as a joint account holder.
Mr H says that he took the day off work, attended branch, but during the process he was told 
that he could not change his account to a joint account, as the specific type of account he 
held was no longer on sale, and so no new account holders could be added to such an 
account.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, HSBC apologised that Mr H was unable to change his 
account to a joint account and paid Mr H £200 compensation.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that what HSBC had done 
to put matters right was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think that HSBC needs to do anything more than what it 
has already done to put matters right.
Mr H held an Amanah account, which was withdrawn from sale to new customers in 2012. 
Mr H has questioned why he was not informed about the change to the terms and conditions 
of his account. Mr H says that had he been informed, he mayve made a decision at the 
time, such as opening an account with another bank.
However, it is the case that the terms and conditions of the account did not change for Mr H 
- the account continued to operate for Mr H in exactly the same way as it had done so prior 
to the removal in 2012. Therefore, Im not persuaded by Mr Hs point that he says he mayve 
decided to change banks or open another account had he been informed that itd been 
removed from sale.
All that happened in 2012, was that the Amanah account was withdrawn from sale, so that 
anyone who didnt already have the account by then was not able to apply for it. And that 
was the case, whether it was someone applying for the account in their sole name or 
someone applying to be added to an existing Amanah account.
Therefore, even if HSBC did not inform Mr H about the withdrawal from sale of the Amanah 
account in 2012, I dont think this means that HSBC did anything wrong, because the 
withdrawal from sale did not affect Mr Hs ability to use his account. 
When Mr H attempted to add his wife to his account, I can see that Mr H had taken some 
time off work to attend a HSBC branch. I appreciate that this wouldve been frustrating for 
Mr H and was essentially a waste of his time. So, in the circumstances, I think that paying Mr 
H £200 in compensation reasonably reflects the inconvenience he experienced in this 
matter.
Mr H has questioned why his Amanah account cant just be changed to a standard current 
account. Looking at the notes, I can see that HSBC did try and convert the account to an 
Advance account, but its systems did not allow it to be processed. To overcome this issue, 
HSBC offered to open a separate joint account for Mr H. Although Mr H has said he would 
like to keep his sort code and account number, overall, I think that what HSBC offered to do 
was a reasonable way to resolve the matter. 
Finally, I understand a concern that Mr H still has is that he does not want to lose his 
banking history by closing his Amanah account. 
Its not clear what specifically Mr H is referring to here, and of course I cant speak for HSBC 
and how its systems operate. But if Mr H opens a standard joint fee-free current account with 
HSBC (if that is what he and his wife wish to do) before he makes any changes to the 
Amanah account (for example if he decides to close it), then I see no reason why Mr Hs 
status as an existing customer will be changed, just because he has opened a new account 
and closed an existing one. 
If this is Mr Hs remaining concern, then I would urge him to speak to HSBC to understand 
the implications of changing account may have on his status as an existing customer, before 
deciding to make any changes to his account.
My final decision
Although things may not have gone as they shouldve, overall, I think that HSBC UK Bank 
Plcs offer of £200, which I understand has already been paid to Mr H, is fair and reasonable. 
I therefore dont think that HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do anything more to put matters right 
regarding this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman