DRN-3920725
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Trading Ltd (RTL) unfairly closed his equity trading account. 
He says RTL didnt have good reason to close his account. And it forced the liquidation of 
his investments which caused him a loss. He also says RTL didnt make him aware early 
enough that it would close his account. And so it deprived him of the opportunity to make 
informed decisions. Mr P wants to be reimbursed for investment losses and legal fees.
Background
RTL was an appointed representative of Resolution Compliance Limited, a UK firm which 
was authorised to provide financial services in the UK by the UK regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). RTL was also a wholly-owned subsidiary of Revolut Ltd 
(Revolut).
Resolution Compliance Limited, as the principal firm for RTL, is responsible for the regulated 
activities carried on by RTL in this case. But for ease of reading Ive simply referred to RTL.
What happened
Mr P opened a RTL trading account in January 2019. He was a resident of France at the 
time.
On 29 October 2020 RTL emailed Mr P saying that from 1 January 2021 its trading company 
RTL would no longer be able to passport its services into the European Union (EU). But 
RTL said Mr P could continue to trade with RTL if he confirmed amongst other things that he 
was doing so on his own initiative and understood he wouldnt have any protections under 
EU regulation. RTL said that if he didnt either confirm that or close his account by 1 January 
2021 then hed be unable to access his account after that date. Mr P said he decided to 
continue using RTLs trading services.
In January 2022 Mr P became a resident of Italy.
On 13 June 2022 RTL contacted Mr P by web chat. It asked him to confirm his country of 
residence. Mr P confirmed he was living in Italy. RTL said that from January 2021 it had 
been unable to provide trading services to customers living in Italy. It said the reason was 
the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit). 
RTL said that because of this it had restricted Mr Ps trading account to sell only. It said 
Mr P had 60 days to either transfer his investments to a different provider or liquidate them. 
Mr P told RTL that it had told him separately he could continue trading if he accepted certain 
conditions. RTL said that information had been wrong. It apologised and said again Mr P 
couldnt continue to trade with RTL while living in Italy, and he would have to move his 
investments or liquidate them. RTL also said Revolut had received a licence in Lithuania that 
would allow it to provide trading services across the EU and it expected to onboard new 
customers under that licence in the second half of 2022.
On 18 June 2022 Mr P complained to RTL. He said hed been told that, because he lived in 
Italy, RTL would liquidate his investments within 60 days. He said the terms and conditions 
didnt allow RTL to close his account simply because he lived in Italy. He asked RTL to allow 
him to continue trading with his RTL account.
On 23 June 2022 Mr P contacted RTL via web chat and asked if his account would be 
closed. RTL said again that due to Brexit it couldnt continue providing trading services in the 
EU but it expected to take on EU customers in late 2022 under a Lithuanian licence. It 
incorrectly said Mr P had to close his account immediately and liquidate any open positions, 
and that he didnt have any open positions. Mr P said he thought he had 60 days. RTL 
apologised for confusion and confirmed he had 60 days and that he could also transfer his 
investments elsewhere rather than liquidate them.
On 2 July 2022 Mr P began another chat with RTL and said he still had doubts about his 
trading account and asked if it would be closed. RTL said again that the account had to be 
closed immediately due to Brexit and that Mr P didnt have any open positions.
On 10 July 2022 Mr P told RTL he needed help to transfer his investments. RTL said it had 
to remind him that he could only trade with RTL on his own initiative. And it said it would ask 
the relevant team about support for transferring his investments. On 13 July 2022 RTL told 
Mr P how he could transfer his investments to another entity.
On 19 July 2022 Mr P contacted RTL again through web chat and said he wanted to know 
why it wanted to close his trading account. He mentioned hed made a complaint. RTL said it 
had to close his account because of Brexit. Mr P said he was the only person whod received 
that message. RTL said it had emailed a response to his complaint. Mr P said he hadnt 
received it. RTL then said it was still considering his complaint. Mr P said hed been told RTL 
would respond within 15 days.
On 19 July 2022 Mr P liquidated some (but not all) of the positions in his trading account.
On 20 July 2022 RTL told Mr P it had sent its response to his complaint to his inbox. Mr P 
asked how he could transfer his investments to another entity. He also asked for the exact 
date his account would be closed. He said he hadnt received the response to his complaint.
On 21 July 2022 RTL said it had re-sent its response to his complaint. A reply dated 21 July 
2022 said RTL didnt uphold the complaint and Mr P had two options  to liquidate his 
investments or transfer them to another provider. It explained how to transfer the 
investments if Mr P chose that option. RTL also apologised for Mr Ps experience with RTL 
not having been as smooth and positive as RTL intended.
On 12 August 2022, which was 60 days after the web chat of 13 June 2022, RTL liquidated 
Mr Ps remaining investments and closed his trading account.
In November 2022 Mr P referred his complaint to this service. During our investigation of his 
complaint he added that hes since been able to resume trading with RTL while still living 
Italy. He said this shows that RTL didnt need to close his account. He also said hes aware 
of other RTL customers living in Italy who didnt have their trading accounts closed.
RTL told us it would have liked to keep Mr P as a customer but couldnt do so because of 
regulatory restrictions brought on by Brexit.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said that although RTL hadnt told Mr P as early as it could have, 60 days was enough 
notice, and the outcome wouldve been the same if hed been told earlier. She 
acknowledged that RTL gave Mr P conflicting information but said it gave him the correct 
information in time for him to take action if he wanted to.Mr P didnt accept the Investigators view. He said he lost the opportunity to make informed 
decisions when RTL didnt tell him before he moved to Italy that his trading account would be 
affected by the move. He said he wouldve liquidated his positions before moving to Italy if 
hed known that RTL would close his account. And he asked what proof there was that RTL 
gave timely information to its customers in Italy about the consequences of Brexit.
Because no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account clearly set out that RTL could close the account 
immediately for a range of reasons, including exceptional circumstances. They said 
exceptional circumstances could include having to close the account under any law, 
regulation, court order or ombudsmans instructions. The terms and conditions also said, 
We may also decide to suspend or close your account for other reasons. We would contact 
you through the RTL App at least 30 business days before we do this.
In Mr Ps case, RTL said its reason for closing his account was that it was legally unable to 
provide services to him in Italy due to the UK having withdrawn from the EU. And RTL gave 
him 60 calendar days notice of the closure. So I think that when it closed his account RTL 
acted within the terms and conditions of its agreement with Mr P.
I understand Mr P feels hes been treated unfairly because he believes other RTL customers 
in Italy didnt have their accounts closed. And he disagrees that RTL acted in response to 
legal or regulatory requirements. But Im not persuaded RTL targeted Mr P personally when 
it decided to close his account. Im satisfied RTLs actions here were a response to changes 
in legal and regulatory requirements following Brexit which changed the authorisation that 
RTL needed to provide trading services to customers living in Italy.
Providing trading services to customers who live in Italy is a regulated activity. That means 
businesses need authorisation from a regulator to be able to carry on the activity. Until 
Brexit, UK businesses could use their FCA authorisation to operate in the EU (including in 
Italy), under the EUs passporting regime. But after the UK withdrew from the EU, 
businesses from the UK could no longer use their FCA authorisation to passport into EU 
countries. So UK businesses now had to get authorisation from an EU regulator if they 
wanted to carry on regulated activities in the EU. In Italy financial services are regulated by 
the Bank of Italy and Consob (for investment services in particular). The websites of both 
confirm that from 1 January 2021 the UK was considered a third country in Italy and, under 
Italian law, UK firms could no longer provide financial services in Italy unless they had 
received or applied for authorisation from the Italian regulator.
I understand Mr P has been able to resume trading on the Revolut app, even though he still 
lives in Italy. I dont think this shows RTL shouldnt have closed his account when it did. 
When it closed his account RTL told Mr P it planned to take on new EU customers again in 
future. It planned to do that under a new licence from the Bank of Lithuania which would 
allow RTL to serve customers in the EU. I can see from its website that the Bank of Lithuania 
has granted licences for investment activities to Revolut Securities Europe UAB. And 
Revoluts website says investment services in the EU are provided by Revolut Securities 
Europe UAB.Taking all this into account, I cant say that RTL targeted Mr P personally. Im satisfied its 
more likely than not that RTL closed his account as a response to legal and regulatory 
requirements brought on by Brexit. And I cant say that RTLs decision to close Mr Ps 
account was unreasonable or unfair. But Ive also thought about whether the decision was 
communicated fairly and reasonably. And Im satisfied it was.
Having looked at the evidence I agree that at times RTLs communication with Mr P was 
unclear and inconsistent. And I can understand that Mr P would have preferred to know at 
an earlier stage what RTL was going to do in response to Brexit. I can also see why Mr P 
would have questions after RTL told him he would be able carry on trading but then 
appeared to change its position after he moved to Italy.
But ultimately Im satisfied RTLs decision to close Mr Ps account was fair  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and the regulatory position at the time for UK firms after 
Brexit. And I agree with the Investigator that poor communication at times from RTL didnt 
cause Mr P to lose out financially  Mr P had enough information and enough time to avoid 
having his investments liquidated against his will, which is the loss he is unhappy about.
RTL apologised for providing wrong information and told Mr P why it was closing his account 
and what his options were regarding his investments. I think RTL gave Mr P correct 
information enough times and consistently enough for him to know that he needed to move 
or liquidate his investments within 60 days of the web chat on 13 June 2022. And I think 60 
days was enough time for Mr P to liquidate or transfer his investments if he wanted to. 60 
calendar days was more than the terms and conditions required  the terms and conditions 
allowed RTL to close the account immediately for certain specified reasons (including legal 
or regulatory reasons), and within 30 business days for other reasons. So RTL allowed 
Mr P more time than required under the terms and conditions, to minimise the impact on 
him. I think that is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ps communications and actions during the 60-day period show he knew his account 
would be closed and he was aware of his options. Mr P did liquidate some of his investments 
during the 60 days. And he requested and was given information about how to transfer his 
investments. So although RTLs communication was poor at times, I dont think that 
prevented Mr P from retaining or selling his investments.
Mr P said that by not telling him sooner that he wouldnt be able to continue trading with RTL 
in Italy RTL denied him the opportunity to make informed decisions before he moved from 
France to Italy and before he made and held various investments. But I dont accept that 
Mr P wouldve needed to make different investment simply because he knew RTLs trading 
service would be unavailable to him. Mr P couldve achieved the same investment outcomes 
using a different platform. So I dont accept that he wouldnt have made the investments if 
hed known RTL would become unavailable to him. In any case, Mr P couldve transferred 
his investments to a different provider in the 60-day period before his RTL account was 
closed. So I dont think he needed to be notified of the closure any earlier to avoid having his 
investments liquidated.
I know Mr P will be disappointed that Im not saying he must be compensated for investment 
losses. But I hope he is reassured that RTLs closure of his account was fair and reasonable 
and wasnt done to target him personally.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman