DRN-4412944
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his MS Amlin Insurance SE (MS Amlin) legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Mr B says MS Amlin treated him unfairly. 
All references to MS Amlin include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his MS Amlin legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a 
claim in respect of some works to his boat. MS Amlin appointed a panel firm of Solicitors to 
consider his claim. Those Solicitors, with the assistance of lawyers in Spain, initially 
confirmed the claim had reasonable prospects of success so MS Amlin agreed to cover their 
costs.
Further into the claim the panel firm began to express doubts about whether the claim 
remained proportionate to pursue considering the expert evidence received and the costs 
theyd already incurred to date. They proposed the claim should be settled in light of this, Mr 
B and MS Amlin both agreed to this. As such the claim was concluded.
Mr B was dissatisfied with the position he found himself in, however. He said that after 
inspecting the boat, he found the engine was not working as it hadnt been maintained whilst 
in the third partys possession. The panel firm confirmed to MS Amlin that maintenance of 
the boats engine wasnt part of the settlement agreement with the third party nor any repairs 
that arose out of that. Hes also unhappy with the standard of works conducted by the third 
party. The panel firm say the work carried out in accordance with the settlement agreement 
is recorded by a survey report conducted by Mr Bs surveyor. As such they take the view that 
the matter is now at an end and therefore there is nothing further that cover extends to. In 
addition, they say that incurring any further costs are disproportionate. In light of this MS 
Amlin said no further funding was available to Mr B.
Mr B is unhappy with MS Amlins approach. He isnt satisfied with the standard of the works 
carried out by the third party in settlement of the dispute. He feels they were so below 
standard that they put the safety of passengers at risk. Mr B says hes spoken to the 
company that surveyed the boat and theyve agreed the third party didnt honour the 
agreement when carrying out the work. In addition, he says that it was always known the 
boats engine wasnt functioning correctly. He feels that the legal team in Spain should have 
gone to see it themselves and if theyd done so, they might have understood the problems 
he was complaining about. In particular, the issue regarding maintaining the engine would 
have been properly identified so someone should now be responsible for that. He feels that 
the fact that it took nearly three years to investigate the engine allowed it to deteriorate so 
badly that it had to be rebuilt again. He feels that MS Amlin are responsible for this because 
their Solicitors took too long to deal with the claim and failed to pick up on the problems 
affecting the engine. 
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr B 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding and is 
proportionate to pursue. Mr B policy is no exception. That means his claim needed to have 
over 51% prospects of succeeding and the sum likely to be recovered needed to be more 
than the costs likely to be incurred for MS Amlin to cover them.
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed of if the amount they will 
recover is less than they would spend on costs. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as 
they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
MS Amlin did this. 
Im satisfied that the Solicitor and the lawyers instructed in Spain together were experienced 
in the area of law Mr B was asking for help with and Ive seen nothing that suggests their 
advice was based on factual mistakes. I appreciate Mr B doesnt agree with the advice hes 
received or the ultimate outcome of his claim but thats not something I can consider. If Mr B 
is able to provide an alternative reasoned opinion from a comparable Solicitor setting out 
that the third party is in breach of the settlement agreement and that there is a specific party 
responsible for the condition of the boats engine and these claims are proportionate to 
pursue, then I would expect MS Amlin to consider these subject to the remaining policy 
terms. Equally, if Mr B provides MS Amlin with any new evidence or information that has 
now come to light that might change the outcome of the current assessment of his claim- 
such as something from the expert he says has told him the third party is in breach of the 
agreement, then I would expect MS Amlin to refer that back to their panel firm. But as 
matters stand, I cant say MS Amlin did something wrong by relying on the legal opinion they 
received. They are not legal professionals so are reliant on the advice of those professionals 
when deciding whether a claim is proportionate to pursue or indeed at an end. 
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt agree with the way in which his claim was handled. He feels it 
took too long to conclude, which led to the boats engine deteriorating. I cant hold MS Amlin 
responsible for this. The underlying dispute that Mr B claimed for is not something theyre 
responsible for and I can see that when Mr B complained about the time things were taking, 
MS Amlin proactively chased this with the panel firm with a view to moving matters on. So, 
whilst Mr B says the panel firm are to blame for how they handled things, I cant say that MS 
Amlin did something wrong here. Is Mr B remains unhappy with the panel firms conduct, he 
can raise the matter with them directly or refer it to the Legal Ombudsman.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against MS Amlin Insurance 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman