The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the price BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa ) has charged for the 
renewal of her private medical insurance policy. This has meant her premium has increased 
by over 49%.
Mrs L feels Bupa should have told her about the likely increase at the time she made a claim 
earlier in the policy year. If it had done so, she wouldnt have pursued a small claim for an 
operation. To resolve the complaint she wants Bupa to reduce the premium.
What happened
Mrs L has been a customer with Bupa since 2002. In December 2017, she changed to a 
personal Bupa By You policy after having previously been a member of a group scheme.
In early 2019, Mrs L made a claim for an operation. Mrs L says she was aware this would 
have an effect on her no claims discount (NCD). However, when she received her renewal 
documentation in October 2019 it was stated that her new monthly premium would be 
£398.87 (where it had previously been £267.42).
Mrs L complained to Bupa that same month. She said she didnt realise her premium would 
increase so significantly. Her policy terms set out 14 levels of NCD. She had been at level 13 
(68% discount) and after making a claim of over £500, the NCD level would reduce three 
steps to level 10 (59% discount). She said despite this, the increase was 49.15%.
It was explained to Mrs L during a call with Bupa that a 9% reduction in NCD discount did 
not mean that the premium would merely increase by 9%. In fact, the increase equates to 
28% uplift on the 2018 premium on the price. That is because the percentage increase is 
actually calculated by dividing the level 10 price (41% of the zero NCD price) by the level 13 
price (32% of the zero NCD price), which gives an uplift of 28% (1.28).
On 28 October 2019, Bupa responded to the complaint in writing. It reiterated how her 
increased premium was calculated based on moving three steps down on the NCD table and 
that its calculation has been carried out correctly. It also told Mrs L how the additional 
increase in her premium was due to the usual factors applying at renewal, including how 
many claims are made the previous year, costs of medicine and technology, claims made by 
other customers within the same demographic range and those made in the same locality.
Bupa did accept that it should have called Mrs L back sooner than it had promised an 
offered her an apology for that. But it otherwise said it rejected the complaint and offered Mrs 
L referral rights to this service.
The complaint handler also exchanged a number of emails with Mrs L. He explained again 
that the increase in premium was because Mrs L had dropped down three NCD levels, and 
how that calculation amounted to 28% plus the other scheme and location increases.
DRN-1666855Mrs L said it wasnt the 28% calculation that she held a concern with, but the fact that it was 
never properly explained to her at the time she made a claim. She felt the other 21.1% of the 
increase was not properly explained in the final response letter.
She noted Bupa said it had looked at claims for customers who were the same age as her, 
have the same policy and excess as her, and live in her area as well as looking at her 
claims. But Mrs L said she had only made one small claim for £4587.50 and had been living 
at the same address since she started with Bupa. She also said that the previous years 
premium had only increased at renewal by 0.9%, when the conditions were similar apart 
from her small claim.
Mrs L also told Bupa that she would be happy to reimburse it for the cost of the claim of 
£4587.50 in order to mitigate the increase in renewal cost. However, Bupa wasnt able to 
accept a reimbursement of the claim.
The complaints handler supplied a further explanation to Mrs L as to how her premium had 
been calculated. Dissatisfied with that further information, Mrs L brought the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator did not believe the complaint should succeed. She said Bupa wouldnt have 
known the price it was going to offer Mrs L in October 2020 (for her policy start date of 1 
December) as it considers several factors when deciding the premium, and these couldnt 
have been known to it beforehand. She also felt the explanation given by Bupa for the 
reasons the premium had increased were clear and when asked for evidence Bupa had 
shown her its commercially sensitive pricing matrices that showed it had fairly applied a 
scheme increase across the board.
Mrs L said she disagreed. She said the final response letter refers to a zero NCD price and 
that some customers find the calculation of NCD confusing, so this must infer that Bupa 
does not fairly explain what it charges to its customers.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She said she thought it was fair that 
Bupa didnt include commercially sensitive information in policy terms and that it was allowed 
to determine the price it would charge upon renewal  it was for Mrs L to decide whether to 
accept or reject the insurance terms.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator. Unfortunately for Mrs 
L, I wont be asking Bupa to do anything more.
Essentially Mrs Ls complaint about the premium increase is twofold  firstly, she is unhappy 
that the effect of her small claim resulted in a 28% increase to her premium and would like to 
be able to reverse the claim and therefore remove the NCD reduction/premium uplift. 
Secondly, she feels the additional 21% increase to her premium for scheme and location 
uplifts is unfair.
In respect of the NCD uplift, I note Mrs L understands how the calculation is reached so it 
follows that she understands why the uplift is more than an initial 9% difference in three levels may suggest. Ive looked at the no claims discount section of Mrs Ls policy terms 
and I dont find it to be misleading about the levels of discount for each year up to year 14. 
Further, it expressly states that a policyholder shouldnt disregard claimable treatment 
merely to avoid the loss of NCD.
I realise that a consequence of claiming under Mrs Ls policy is an increase to her premium 
through loss of NCD discount. However, I dont consider Bupa to have misled Mrs L about 
that. Ive also reviewed the email sent by a claims handler to Mrs L from the time she made 
a claim in January 2019.
The claims handler at the time emailed Mrs L and explained how, I can confirm that your 
annual increase to the policy subscription at renewal will not be affected by claims if the total 
amount of claims for that year fall within your £500 excess. Again, we would only take into 
account claims that Bupa pay out for. Please note, factors such as age, economic inflation 
and claims Bupa pay out for etc will still be taking [sic] into account when calculating your 
renewal price.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs L to understand that her NCD would be affected, as the 
policy terms show that a policyholder will drop one, two, or three stages based on the value 
of their claim, once the cost of claims in the respective year exceeds £500.
Unfortunately, though I realise Mrs L would now like to withdraw her claim, her policys terms 
and conditions (at clause 3.2) say that you will be unable to withdraw if we have already 
paid the claim. So, I cant order Bupa to act outside of the policy terms and reverse the 
claim payment, or revise the application of a lower NCD because of Mrs L having made a 
claim in the relevant assessment year.
I know Mrs L says that she should have been told in January 2019 that the zero NCD price 
is used as a means to calculating NCD as this would have affected her choice to claim for 
her operation. But, Bupa cannot know until renewal what the price would be for a premium it 
would charge to Mrs L as that depends on a number of variables. It looks back at ten months 
of the policy year (December to September) and the previous two months of the preceding 
year. The zero price is simply what the price would be taking into account the scheme and 
location cost changes before any NCD is applied. So even if Mrs Ls NCD had remained at 
level 13, it still couldnt have informed her of the zero price one month into the new policy 
year.
I also appreciate Mrs Ls frustration that her premium only increased by 0.9% but in the 
breakdown Bupa has given her, this is because of the offsetting on going up one NCD level 
(from 12 to 13) against a 10.39% scheme increase.
In the 2019 renewal, the scheme increase was 14.17% and a location increase of 1.97%. I 
realise Mrs L feels these still dont amount to the total of her 49% premium increase but 
Bupas complaints handler set out the exact calculation for Mrs L. That calculation takes the 
three figures as a compound, and it does correctly total 49.17%.
Our role at this service is to decide whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances of a complaint. We arent a regulator  that role falls to the Financial 
Conduct Authority. In any event, the FCA doesnt regulate on the prices insurers charge or 
the methods an insurer might use to calculate a price given that a consumer is free to take 
out insurance with a differing provider if he or she is unhappy with the proposed cost. 
On that basis, Im not able to make a judgement about the way an insurer chooses to assess 
risk, the risk assessments it makes or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. Instead, 
I need to be satisfied that an insurer has been fair in the way it has carried out its calculation, that it hasnt been discriminatory, overly restrictive, misleading or made any errors. And I 
dont believe Bupa has done any of these things. Its complaints handler has gone into 
particular detail with Mrs L to set out how it reaches the renewal price, and I think it has done 
so reasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman