DRN-3183123
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his transaction and required him to visit a 
branch to provide identification before he could buy cryptocurrency. He says the delay cost 
him money.
What happened
Mr C transferred some money on 2 April to a third party. After confirming the transaction was 
successful he then tried to transfer a larger amount of £4,500. This was flagged by Lloyds 
fraud team which Mr C says wasnt an issue. Mr C contacted Lloyds and answered various 
questions but when asked what will you be spending the money on? he declined to answer. 
He says he had already said where he was transferring the money to and that it was for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency. He says he wasnt told that by not giving the information his 
account would be frozen and the transaction blocked. Mr C says he was then told he would 
need to visit a branch which he couldnt do until 6 April due to the bank holiday. Mr C says 
he asked if the adviser was comfortable she was talking to the account holder which she 
confirmed. He says he would have said what he was going to spend the money on at that 
point had that meant the transaction could go ahead. Mr C visited the branch on the 
Tuesday and says he wasnt asked what the money was for.
Mr C says that the delay caused him a financial loss of just under £300 as the item he 
intended to buy with the cryptocurrency had increased in price. He also says that being 
blocked out of his account meant he couldnt re-organise his accounts as he had planned to 
do at that time.
Lloyds issued a final response letter dated 13 April 2021. It acknowledged that Mr C had to 
wait a long time before he could speak to an adviser in the fraud team. It said it had a duty of 
care towards its customers to ensure they arent being coerced into making payments. It 
said the adviser wasnt happy with Mr Cs answers to the question as he didnt say what the 
transaction was for and so he was asked to visit a branch so that it could verify Mr Cs 
identity. In response to Mr Cs complaint, Lloyds paid him £141.80 - £18 for the phone call, 
£3.80 for the mileage to the branch and £120 compensation for not providing the service it 
should have.
Mr C didnt think Lloyds had done enough to resolve this complaint and referred it to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong by asking Mr C about the 
purpose of the transaction and asking him to come into a branch to show identification. He 
did think it could have given a clearer explanation over the phone but said it had since 
provided an explanation. Because of this he thought the compensation offered was more 
than this service would award and so he didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. He said it wasnt about the compensation but 
about Lloyds dictating what he could spend his money on. He said he told Lloyds he was 
buying cryptocurrency and that he wasnt then required to say what he would then spend 
that on. He said the Lloyds adviser said they had no doubt he was the account holder and so 
he didnt see why he was required to visit a branch to provide identification.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
When dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer the bank acts as the 
customers agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to 
exercise reasonable skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a 
bank has a duty to its customer to take reasonable care when making such a 
payment. 
Mr Cs transaction was caught by Lloyds security systems and flagged as a possible 
fraudulent transaction. Mr C had to wait on a call for an extended time before he was 
able to speak to an adviser in the fraud team. Given the transaction had been flagged 
I found it reasonable that Mr C was asked questions to establish whether the 
transaction was genuine and whether he was potentially a victim of coercion, fraud or 
a scam. 
Against the need to determine the transaction as genuine, the bank had a contractual 
duty to execute a valid and proper order to execute its customers instruction. 
On the call Mr C had with the fraud team he passed the initial identity checks without 
issue and the adviser later on the call confirmed that she was confident she was 
talking to Mr C and he was the owner of the account. Mr C confirmed who the 
transaction was being made to and that he had made previous transactions for 
smaller amounts. He explained the transaction was to buy cryptocurrency to pay a 
third party. He wouldnt say what the cryptocurrency would be used to buy as he said 
he didnt need to provide this information. 
The adviser had concerns about the payment. I thought that Lloyds was following its 
terms by raising concerns, but its approach taken appeared to have led to an unfair 
outcome for Mr C given the individual circumstances of his complaint. This was 
because Mr C was able to confirm his identity and provided information about the 
transaction and that he knew other people who had used the company he was 
transferring funds to. When he was told he would need to visit a branch he asked for 
the reason and the adviser didnt provide a clear explanation but said the system 
wasnt allowing the transaction. Mr C asked if the reason was his refusal to say what 
he was buying, and she said that was one reason.
I understood why the adviser was concerned but thought it would have been 
reasonable on the call (and based on her conversation with her colleague) to see if 
Mr C could provide more information in support of the transaction. Had this 
happened, I thought it likely Mr C would have provided further details (or at least he 
would have had that option) and the transaction could have been approved.
I understood why Mr C was upset that he was told to visit a branch. Mr Cs identity 
wasnt in doubt and while the adviser had other possible concerns about the 
transaction (such as what Mr C might be purchasing) I wasnt sure an additional 
identity check in branch would have resolved this issue and I noted Mr C has said he 
wasnt asked at that time what he wanted the money for. Therefore, it appeared the 
additional check put in place was to verify Mr Cs identity, which wasnt ever in doubt, 
rather than to get more details about what he might buy with the cryptocurrency.Mr C has said he lost around £300 because of the delay in being able to make the 
purchase he had intended to make on 2 April. He provided evidence showing a price 
increase from $8,800 to $9,100 between 2 and 6 April. I thought it reasonable that 
the additional amount Mr C paid on 6 April was refunded.
Lloyds had already paid Mr C £141.80 to cover his telephone costs and costs of 
travelling to the branch as well as compensation for the service provided. I found this 
was reasonable to address the inconvenience he was caused by needing to wait on 
the call and being asked to visit a branch to confirm his identity.
I upheld Mr Cs complaint and found that along with the payments already made, 
Lloyds should refund Mr C the difference in the amount he paid for the product he 
acquired on 6 April compared to the price he would have paid on 2 April.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out considerations and conclusions on this complaint in my provisional decision which is 
summarised above. On balance, while I accept the adviser was trying to check the nature of 
the transaction I think that Mr C had provided a reasonable amount of information in 
response to the questions asked and had the adviser then explained why the additional 
information about the purpose of the transaction was needed, he may have provided this. 
But as the explanation wasnt given and Mr C wasnt given the opportunity to provide more 
information to enable the transaction to take place, I dont think in this case he was treated 
fairly.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision my conclusions havent changed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr C the 
difference between the amount he paid on 6 April for his purchase and the amount he would 
have paid on 2 April (evidence has been provided). As the amounts in the evidence provided 
are in USD, we would expect the applicable exchange rate for the relevant dates to be 
applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman