DRN-3435714
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly 
declined his application for a new account, which in turn meant he couldnt apply to the bank 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr S was an existing personal customer of NatWest and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
NatWest required customers without a business account to obtain a business feeder 
account before it would consider an application for a Bounce Back Loan. The account would 
then be used to draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme.
So Mr S applied to NatWest for a feeder account. He made two applications in November 
2020, but NatWest declined them both. 
Mr S understood he may have made an error in completing the first application but the bank 
didnt explain why the second application had been declined. So, believing he was eligible 
for the Bounce Back Loan, Mr S followed up on the matter with NatWest. Following 
conversations with the bank, he provided further information about his turnover with a view 
to demonstrating his eligibility.
Having not heard back from NatWest, Mr S raised a complaint in late November 2020. The 
bank responded in early January 2021 to reaffirm its decision, which it said had been 
reached in line with its usual checks and assessments. So Mr S referred the matter to us. He 
didnt know the reasons for NatWests decision but believed it to be unfair as he thought he 
met the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria  so the bank was blocking his access to the 
support he needed. He was also unhappy with the level of service hed received from 
NatWest during the process, particularly as  given his apparent eligibility  he thought the 
bank shouldve done more to support him with his application.
One of our investigators looked into things. She said that the application had been declined 
as it had failed the banks checks. In particular, the bank hadnt been able to verify the 
turnover figure that Mr S had declared in his application. Having looked at the information on 
which the banks decision was based, she thought it was reasonable. And she didnt think 
NatWest needed to give Mr S any more detail about its decision than it did or that the bank 
was responsible for any unreasonable delay in dealing with the matter. So she didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He replied to say, in summary, that the finer detail 
of the turnover checks still hadnt been made clear to him and this unfairly prevented him 
from demonstrating his eligibility. He said hed provided information and evidence to validate 
his business transactions and turnover, but without knowing what the apparent discrepancy 
was he could neither submit a proper appeal nor trust in the banks decision. He said 
NatWest had prolonged the matter in the way it had dealt with things, which had included 
declining his reasonable enquiries and failing to respond to the further information hed 
submitted at the banks request.
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ss complaint, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold it 
and inviting both parties to submit anything else they wanted me to take into consideration 
before I made a final decision. I said: 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion 
as to how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it 
wasnt a requirement of the Scheme that applicants have a business relationship with 
a lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to 
those without one. 
NatWest required customers who didnt have a business relationship to open a feeder 
account before it would consider an application from them for a Bounce Back Loan. As 
above, it was entitled to put such steps in place. And I think it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so. Lenders were required to carry out a number of checks under the 
Scheme before providing a Bounce Back Loan, including Know Your Customer, fraud 
and anti-money laundering checks. NatWest has explained that it was able to conduct 
these checks through its account-opening process.
NatWest declined Mr Ss application for a business feeder account after it failed these 
checks. Ive carefully considered the basis of the banks decision and I think it was 
reasonable. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
NatWest has explained and evidenced that its account-opening criteria in place at the 
time of Mr Ss application included a requirement that a certain proportion of the 
turnover figure declared by the applicant be seen running through their existing 
personal account. The bank has shared the exact proportion with me but, as I think 
this is subject to some legitimate confidentiality, I wont relay the requirement in full 
here.
In his application, Mr S was asked to provide a turnover range for the past 12 months. 
He selected a range of £10,001 to £40,000. But, even using the lowest end of the 
range, the bank couldnt see the requisite proportion of this in the credits made to Mr 
Ss personal account over the preceding year. Ive reviewed the transactions through 
Mr Ss account over the relevant period (November 2019  November 2020) and can 
see that the income received was significantly lower than the amount required. So I 
think NatWest correctly declined the application in line with its standard criteria.
I understand that Mr S used the turnover figure for the tax year 2019/20. So the 
discrepancy does appear to be the result of a genuine mistake. But I dont think this is 
down to an error on NatWests part. Having looked at the account application process 
that Mr S went through, I think it was clear that the turnover for the preceding 12 
months needed to be provided.
I also recognise why Mr S might consider it unfair that NatWests requirements for the 
account used a different turnover figure than the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria  
particularly as the account in question was to be used solely for the purpose of 
obtaining the loan. But the two products were distinct and were legitimately subject to 
different criteria. The rules of the Loan Scheme allowed lenders to request applicants holding only a personal account to convert to a business relationship in line with their 
standard policies. Thats what NatWest did here. Although on this point, its also worth 
highlighting that applicants needed to provide their turnover for the calendar year 
2019  rather than the tax year 2019/20  when submitting a Bounce Back Loan 
application. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in declining 
Mr Ss application. Ive gone on to consider how NatWest handled things in light of Mr 
Ss queries and further submissions after he received the banks decision. 
NatWest advised Mr S on 17 November 2020 that it had declined his application on 
the basis that he didnt meet its criteria. It wasnt obliged to share any more detail as to 
why.
Mr S sought NatWests assistance thereafter and, on the suggestion of an adviser he 
spoke with, provided a detailed explanation of his turnover on 20 November with a 
view to covering any discrepancy. The bank agreed to review things in light of Mr Ss 
further submission, but ultimately confirmed that the application wouldnt be able to 
proceed as the transactions going through his personal account didnt match the 
turnover figure hed declared in the application. The bank then reaffirmed its decision 
in response to Mr Ss subsequent complaint, without sharing any more detail.
I think NatWest took reasonable steps in considering Mr Ss appeal and explained its 
decision in as much detail as I could reasonably expect. There was something of a 
disconnect as Mr S had erroneously used his 2019/20 turnover figure rather than his 
income for the 12 months prior to the application  but NatWest wasnt to know that. 
The only way things wouldve transpired any differently wouldve been if NatWest had 
talked Mr S through the basis of its decision  and therefore, its criteria and 
processes  in a greater level of detail than it did. And for the reasons Ive already 
given, I dont think thats something that Id expect the bank to have done. So while I 
recognise that Mr S was left without knowing the finer detail as to why his application 
had been declined, I dont think that was the result an error on NatWests part. 
I can see some instances on which the service NatWest provided to Mr S wasnt as 
good as it couldve been. Most notably, it doesnt seem that the bank replied to his 
email of 23 November 2020  prompting Mr S to follow up by phone and ultimately 
raise a complaint. I think the latter was always going to be necessary as NatWest was 
never going to disclose a level of detail that wouldve alleviated Mr Ss concerns. And 
while I also note Mr Ss unhappiness with the way in which NatWest handled the 
complaint itself, this isnt an activity that falls within our jurisdiction and therefore isnt 
something we have the power to investigate or comment upon.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into consideration, I dont think NatWest made an 
error in how it handled Mr Ss account application or that it unfairly deprived him of 
access to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. So Im not intending to require the bank to 
take any action in response to this complaint.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision but Mr S didnt. In summary, he said:
He accepted, based on what Id said, that his second account application had been 
correctly declined. This was the result of a genuine error on his part when 
completing the application, which he felt was an easy and understandable mistake to 
make in the circumstances.When following up with the bank in light of its decision, NatWest could and should 
have identified the error that hed made and taken steps to remedy this. It wouldve 
been apparent from his subsequent exchanges with the bank that the turnover figure 
hed used was for the tax year 2019/20. It shouldve pointed this out and invited him 
to reapply or simply reassessed the application in light of the additional information 
hed provided.
The banks turnover requirements werent confidential  they were, after all, set out in 
the application form  and so NatWest ought reasonably to have highlighted this in 
response to his questions, which need not have involved the disclosure of any 
sensitive information about the banks internal criteria or processes.
I hadnt properly considered the way in which NatWest had handled the matter in 
light of his challenge to the decision to decline the second application, during which 
time he believed the bank had misled him with requests for unnecessary information, 
diverted him from the obvious mistake hed made and ignored a number of his 
questions and submissions  all of which had adversely affected his prospects of 
rectifying the situation.
Ultimately, he thought he wouldve been eligible for the Bounce Back Loan based on 
his turnover through the calendar year 2019, and NatWests failure to assist him off 
the back of his second application had deprived him of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and after careful consideration of everything Mr S has said in response to 
my provisional findings, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional 
decision. So Ill explain why his further comments havent changed my mind. 
Mr S has provided detailed submissions so I should point out that I wont address each point 
he has made. Rather, my findings will focus on the matters that I consider most relevant to 
how Ive reached my decision, in keeping with our informal remit. No discourtesy is meant by 
that and I can assure Mr S that I have read and considered everything he has said and 
provided throughout the course of his complaint.
Mr S has accepted what I have found as to NatWests decision to decline his account 
applications, but still thinks the bank ought to have done more in light of his subsequent 
interactions and exchanges with it. I can understand why  not least as he does appear to 
have been met the core eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, and as the error that 
ultimately prevented him from accessing it was doubtless a genuine one on his part (and one 
that was easy to have made, in the circumstances, as he points out). I still dont think, 
though, that the bank erred in failing to highlight the error to Mr S. 
I say this primarily because, while I believe that Mr Ss overstatement of his turnover was a 
genuine mistake on his part, it could just as easily not have been. Banks have to take certain 
measures to prevent fraud and financial crime  to which the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
was particularly vulnerable. It is not, therefore, unreasonable for a bank to rely solely on the 
information provided by an applicant at the first time of asking  rather than allowing, or 
facilitating, multiple applications that may enable the circumvention (and undermine the 
effectiveness of) its checks, criteria and processes. This is particularly relevant to a material 
piece of information such as a businesss turnover. In short, an applicant couldve attempted 
to apply with an inflated turnover  and should not then have the comfort of being able to reapply with a genuine figure when the bank identifies (and highlights to the applicant) the 
misrepresentation. 
For the same reason, I dont think NatWest ought to have reassessed the application 
voluntarily in light of the information that Mr S provided the bank when seeking to challenge 
its decision to decline his second application. 
I should stress that this is not to say that Mr Ss misstatement was fraudulent, dishonest or 
even deliberate. Rather, it is to underline why I dont think the banks approach to the 
misstatement was unreasonable. There is, unfortunately, the consequence that genuine 
mistakes may not be as easily rectifiable as they otherwise would be. Thats clearly been the 
case for Mr Ss application, but for the reasons Ive given I dont think NatWest did anything 
wrong in declining to highlight the error or reconsider the application in light of the further 
information that he provided.
The points Ive made above also lead me to find that NatWest didnt treat Mr S unfairly in the 
way it handled matters when he sought to query its decision to decline his second 
application. It was not going to give Mr S the definitive steer that wouldve been required to 
facilitate a different outcome, which meant there was always going to be some to-ing and 
fro-ing given Mr Ss understandable strength of feeling and keenness to pursue the matter. 
The bank reviewed the application in light of the further information Mr S sent it, which is 
what he wanted and what Id expect it to do. And it did so in a timely manner. It had declined 
the second application on 17 November 2020 and explained on 20 November 2020 that the 
decision remained unchanged. Thereafter, as noted in my provisional decision, there were 
some aspects of the banks service that fell below the standard Mr S might reasonably have 
expected, but not in such a way that was ever going to impact the outcome of the application 
itself or that put Mr S to a level of avoidable inconvenience that compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman