DRN-4033804
The complaint
Miss P complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim under 
her legal expenses insurance policy to defend a claim made against her.
Where I refer to RSA, I include their claims handlers.
What happened
Miss P had legal expenses insurance (LEI), under a Landlord Legal Expenses insurance 
policy shed taken out with RSA through a broker, in relation to a residential property she let. 
In early 2022 Miss P was in dispute with a contractor whod carried out works to the 
property. She felt the works were unsatisfactory. And the contractor was chasing payment of 
its invoice. In March 2022 Miss P made a claim on the LEI for the costs of defending a legal 
claim the contractor had issued against her.
RSA declined the claim. They said the dispute with the contractor was a consumer contract 
dispute which the policy didnt cover. And they said Miss Ps policy only covered disputes 
she had with the tenant, such as not carrying out repairs to the property or health and safety 
issues, in her capacity as owner and manager of the property. 
Miss P didnt agree. She felt her dispute with the contractor arose in the context of her being 
a landlord, since the works were in relation to the property she let. She was unhappy with 
the time it had taken for her claim to be considered. And she complained RSA had failed to 
provide details of their service level agreement for claims handling. 
When RSA didnt uphold her complaint, she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
To put things right Miss P wanted confirmation RSA had been wrong to decline her claim 
and that cover under the policy wasnt restricted to landlord/tenant disputes as theyd said. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed the claim fell outside the cover the 
policy provided. Since Miss P didnt agree, her complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only consider the individual circumstances of this complaint and the service RSA 
provided. I cant look into Miss Ps wider concerns about the cover her policy provides or 
RSAs arrangements regarding their service level agreements with their claims handlers. Im 
sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss P had with the contractor she engaged to carry out works 
to the property. But, while I understand she will be disappointed, Ive come to the same view 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons, as Ill explain. 
We expect insurers to deal with claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the insurance policy.
RSA considered Miss Ps claim under the Legal Defence section of the LEI policy. That 
section provided cover for:
Costs to defend civil legal action taken against you following any act or omission 
by you in relation to your ownership or management of the property.
RSA said the policy didnt respond since it was designed to assist with claims where the 
tenant was pursuing a claim against Miss P in relation to something she had done or failed 
to do in connection with her ownership or management of the property. Miss P felt the cover 
extended to the dispute she had with the contractor about the work it carried out, and her 
liability to pay its invoice, since shed arranged the works as owner of the property and in 
relation to its management. 
LEI policies dont cover every eventuality. Miss Ps policy was landlord LEI with limited cover 
connected with letting the property. Id expect the policy to contain wording that is clear, fair 
and not mis-leading in line with Financial Conduct Authority principles. I note the points   
Miss P has raised, but, on balance, and given its overall wording, I think the policy was clear 
enough about the nature of the claims the legal defence section covered.
Miss P had met her obligations to the tenants by addressing concerns theyd raised through 
arranging for the works to be carried out. Her claim on the policy wasnt in connection with 
those obligations. It didnt arise out of any act or omission by her in her capacity as owner or 
manager of the property. Miss Ps claim arose in connection with an agreement shed 
entered into with the contractor shed engaged to do the work. The contractor was pursuing 
Miss P in her capacity as a consumer for failure to pay its invoice. So, I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to draw that distinction, to say her claim wasnt covered and to decline it. 
RSA responded to Miss Ps claim within a reasonable period of her making it and before the 
deadline Miss P had made them aware of relating to the legal claim. She continued to have 
access to the legal helpline available under her policy to help with her dispute. And RSA 
answered her complaint within the timescales the relevant rules allow. Overall, I think RSA 
provided an acceptable level of service. Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Miss Ps 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman