DRN-3438367
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed him for unauthorised payments that 
were sent from his account.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In October 2021 Mr A received a call from someone pretending to be Monzo. They 
said there was a fraud risk to his account as someone was trying to use his card. 
Mr A completed security with the caller and gave the personal and account 
information they asked for. He understood hed been able to secure his Monzo 
account, but the caller explained his account with another bank was also at risk so 
transferred his call over. That fraudulent caller directed Mr A to move his money out 
of the other bank account and into his (now secure) Monzo account.
Mr A saw the funds arrive in his Monzo account and was satisfied it was now safe. 
However when he later logged on, he saw that his account had been taken 
overdrawn as two large payments had been sent from his account to another bank. 
Mr A reported the fraud to Monzo and it investigated what had happened. It agreed 
the payments were unauthorised, but said that Mr A hadnt acted with reasonable 
care by sharing his personal information, namely his full card details and PIN. So it 
didnt reimburse him or uphold his complaint.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. She didnt 
agree Mr As actions met the test for gross negligence, as required by the 
regulations. Monzo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
Its accepted by both parties the two payments in dispute were unauthorised. In-line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr A isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise unless he failed with gross negligence, or intent, to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
It hasnt been suggested Mr A failed with intent  and I agree that his actions were 
that of someone who was intending to protect their money (and another account) 
from fraud.
I accept that some of Mr As actions were negligent. And that he did share 
personalised security information that, in isolation, many may not have. In particular 
sharing his PIN number, which is more commonly recognised as something a bank 
wouldnt ask for. However I must look at what happened to Mr A in full and this 
situation as a whole, not isolated parts.
Mr A was persuaded he was talking to Monzo due to the security process he was 
taken through. I accept this is something many people associate with their bank. The 
call also came from an 0800 number and while Mr A didnt verify this, it wasnt for 
example from a mobile number. So when answering the call its reasonable Mr A 
wouldve thought a business was calling him  although he didnt know at that 
moment who  and then accepted it was Monzo due to the caller identifying 
themselves as such and asking security questions.
Mr A was then asked about transactions on his account and his account with another 
bank was discussed. Again this is a practice that banks do use, asking about recent 
payments as verification. And them discussing another account of Mr As wouldve 
built his trust and confidence. So Im not satisfied Mr A was grossly negligent in 
answering the personal security/account questions asked of him and I accept this 
convinced him it was Monzo calling.
As Mr A was then satisfied he was speaking to his bank, I cant say it was then 
unreasonable he complied with its request to provide certain other personal 
information, including his PIN. I think many other people would  and we know have 
from the cases we see  followed the callers instructions and complied with what 
they asked for. This is especially as its to (in their mind) protect their money from 
fraudsters.
This means I also dont consider Mr A forwarding the magic link email sent he sent 
on gross negligence. Again here, like the telephone number, the email address he 
sent his link onto could, to the everyday person, seem legitimate  it looked like a 
Monzo business email. Considering the situation here, I dont think this means Mr A 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk. He doesnt recall sending the email, but I 
accept this is possibly due to the stressful situation he was in  which may also mean 
he didnt note its content or significance. But in any event, I dont think this action was 
gross negligence in this case.
Monzo has suggested Mr A couldve done online checks while he was on the phone 
to see what personal details Monzo would ask for when completing security. Or what 
details it would ask a consumer to generally share. But the test here isnt whether or 
not Mr A did everything he could to verify the call. Its whether or not he acted in a 
careless way that goes significantly beyond what a reasonable person would do. 
Mr A has explained he didnt have any reason to doubt it was Monzo, so I cant see 
why he then wouldve done online checks during a stressful call. And his testimony 
doesnt suggest the caller made errors or acted in a way that shouldve made him 
doubt their authenticity. So I dont consider him not doing online checks means he 
was significantly careless, to meet the required test here. 
Overall, I dont think Mr As actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would 
have done that they amount to gross negligence. This means that Mr A isnt liable for 
the transactions in dispute and Monzo needs to put things right  by refunding the 
losses from the unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate him for 
the time he has been without those funds.Putting things right
The actions by the fraudster took Mr As account into an overdraft, but I can see Monzo has 
already refunded him the overdrawn amount. So it should refund Mr A the remaining funds 
he lost due to the unauthorised payments. And pay 8% simple interest per year on this 
amount from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. I require 
Monzo Bank Ltd to settle this case in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman