DRN-2902636
The complaint
Mrs M says Aviva Insurance Limited provided poor service after she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. Mrs M is represented by her husband, Mr M. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were involved in an accident for which they thought Mrs M wasnt at fault, but 
the other drivers insurer disputed liability. Aviva instructed solicitors to deal with the matter.  
Mr M thought Aviva should have contacted a witness promptly and should also have noted a 
significant error in the witnesss statement. He thought this poor service may have had an 
effect on the liability dispute. Mr M also complained to Aviva about other delays, plus its 
failure to provide a replacement car whilst the repair work on the car was rectified, and the 
cost of the calls hed made to it.
 
Aviva apologised and reimbursed Mr M for the car hire charge hed incurred and for the cost 
of the calls. It acknowledged that it could have contacted the witness earlier, but it thought 
that had made no difference to the liability dispute. Aviva offered £225 compensation for the 
general distress and inconvenience Mrs M had faced. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She concluded that although Aviva had 
provided poor service and had caused around three weeks delay, it had acted reasonably in 
trying to put matters right. Mr M thought more compensation was due. In his view, the case 
may not have had to be referred to solicitors for potential court action had Aviva taken a less 
sloppy approach to its case handling.
As the investigator didnt change her opinion, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the fact that the witness was contacted later than he should have been made a 
difference, as the claim remained disputed after the other insurer became aware of his 
testimony. I think the same applies to the error in the witness statement. When it was 
pointed out to the other insurer, that didnt lead to an immediate settlement of the dispute. 
I agree with Mr M that Aviva should have noted and dealt with these issues earlier, so there 
was poor service on its part. But I dont think he can show that it prejudiced Mrs Ms case. I 
can see why Mr and Mrs M think it did, as a witness statement can sometimes end a dispute 
about which party was at fault for an accident. But its also the case that some liability 
disputes continue even when witness statements are produced at the outset. 
I agree that the undue delay caused by Aviva was around three weeks. Mrs M and Mr M 
were inconvenienced by that - and by the poor work carried out by Avivas repairer. I think  
there was further poor service on Avivas part in it not ensuring that a replacement car was 
provided whilst the rectification work was done. But Aviva reimbursed Mr M for the cost of 
the hire car hed paid for. I think that meant the overall inconvenience Mr and Mrs M faced 
was lessened, as they werent left without a car and werent left out of pocket either. 
 
I can see how frustrating it must have been for Mr M to have to call Aviva and the hire firm 
more than should have been necessary. The fact that he often faced long waiting times 
when calling Aviva only made the situation worse. But I think Aviva acted reasonably in 
trying to deal with this issue by reimbursing Mr M for the cost of the calls. 
Aviva accepted that its overall service wasnt of the standard it should have provided - and 
that apologising and reimbursing Mr Ms actual costs wasnt enough to make up for that - 
hence its offer of £225 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think its very 
unfortunate that the accident and the claims process that followed it happened at a time 
when Mr and Mrs M were about to move to a new house and when Mr M was launching a 
new book. The last thing they needed was any further stress in their lives. Although I think 
some upset and inconvenience was unavoidable once the accident had occurred, some of it 
could have been prevented, so it was right for Aviva to offer compensation.   
I think part of Mr and Mrs Ms unhappiness with Avivas attempted settlement of Mrs Ms 
complaint stems from the way they thought it was dealing with the liability dispute. Mr M 
mentioned a few issues connected to that to the investigator. But the liability dispute in itself 
isnt part of this complaint, so any upset arising from it cant be considered when looking at 
Avivas compensation offer.   
    
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M, given the difficult situation theyve had to deal with, but I 
dont think Aviva should have to increase the compensation it has offered. Given the other 
steps it took to put matters right, I think £225 for distress and inconvenience is fair, and is in 
line with the sum Id have required it to pay otherwise. 
I know Mrs M and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think Aviva has 
acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman