DRN-3969938
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut PLC closed his account and registered a CIFAS marker against 
him. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service. 
What happened
Mr R had an account with Revolut. 
In August 2022, three payments, totalling just over £5,000 were made into Mr Rs account. 
Following this Revolut were notified by another bank that the payments were fraudulent. 
Revolut blocked Mr Rs account and decided it needed to look into how he was operating his 
account. Following its review, it placed a fraud marker against Mr Rs name with CIFAS, the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System. This was for misuse of a facility in relation to a 
money mule. Revolut also decided to close Mr Rs account. 
Mr R complained to Revolut. He explained that he hadnt been involved in any fraud and that 
the payments had been made by a friend who told him that he needed to put money into 
Mr Rs account because he was having problems using his own account.  He said the 
marker was causing him a lot of problems opening another bank account and asked Revolut 
to remove the marker. Revolut looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had 
closed Mr Rs account in line with the terms and had loaded Mr R fairly with CIFAS. 
Unhappy with this response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. She asked Mr R about the payments into his 
account and whether he had any evidence to support his explanation. Mr R said he didnt 
know the sender of the payments that were made into his account and that his friend had 
asked to use his account. Mr R said that since hed found out about the marker, he had tried 
to ask his friend about the payments, but he kept ignoring his calls. 
Mr R said he was given a screen shot by his friend to provide to Revolut when his account 
was first blocked, to help show where the money had originated. But he no longer had this 
as since then he had to clear data from his phone to free up storage on the device. Mr R 
said that he believes his friend is a scammer, but he didnt report anything to police as he 
didnt want his friend to end up in prison. 
The investigator reviewed everything and said that Revolut hadnt done anything wrong 
when it closed Mr Rs account and loaded a marker against him. Mr R disagreed. He wants 
the marker removed. He said hed been nave and simply made a mistake by allowing the 
payments to come into his account. He said the marker was making it very difficult from him 
to open a bank account and would impact his ability to obtain a mortgage for years to come. 
He also explained that his mental health had suffered. And he provided the investigator with 
a screenshot of a conversation between him and a friend which he says shows he wasnt a 
witting participant in fraud.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Revoluts decision to block and close Mr Rs account. Revolut has extensive 
legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in accordance 
with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Rs account. And it was entitled to 
do so under the account terms and conditions. Revolut was also within its rights to close 
Mr Rs account and did so line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant 
say Revolut have done anything wrong when it closed Mr Rs account. 
Ive next moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker against Mr R. The marker 
that Revolut have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr R is guilty of a fraud 
of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion 
or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Rs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
So, I need to consider whether Revolut have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of 
proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Having looked at all the 
information provided, Im satisfied they have, and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from Revolut showing that another bank notified them that Mr R 
received fraudulent payments into his account on 22 and 31 August 2022. The 
payments were for a total of just over £5,000 and were paid into Mr Rs account via 
bank transfer all from the same source. 
Mr R has explained his friend, who I will refer to as Mr G, had asked to use his 
account because he was having difficulties using his own account. I find it surprising 
that Mr R thought funds from his friend should be paid using a named reference 
unrelated to his friend, with no evidence of links between Mr Rs friend and the 
sender of the funds. Even more surprising is that Mr R didnt question why he was 
being sent funds in this manner. With this in mind I think Mr R knew or ought 
reasonably to have known, that the account was being used for fraudulent purposes.
Revolut has provided evidence to show that Mr R moved the money paid into his 
accounts within minutes of the funds crediting his account. On 30 August 2022 at 
19:23 hours £3,500 was paid into Mr Rs account. At 19:27 hours £3,400 was 
transferred to an existing cryptocurrency account. Another fraudulent payment of 
£1,500 was paid into Mr Rs account payment at 19:30 hours. At 19:32 hours the whole amount was transferred out to the same cryptocurrency account. Mr R hasnt 
disputed these transactions, so its likely he was responsible for moving the 
fraudulent funds quickly through his account and onto another. I think this action is 
significant. Mr R hasnt offered any explanation for why he did this. And why he only 
sent on £3,400 of the first payment. I think this suggests Mr R was most likely 
expecting the payments that were paid into his account in August 2022. And 
benefitted from fraudulent funds.
If Mr R had been the unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds, as hes suggested, I 
wouldve expected him to alert Revolut at the time in order that his account could be 
safeguarded against fraud. But I havent seen that he did so.
Mr R hasnt provided any evidence about his arrangement with his friend which 
would support his explanation. The only evidence hes provided is a screenshot 
which suggests others are involved. Having looked at the screenshot Im not 
persuaded that this shows Mr R was an unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds as 
hes suggested.  It doesnt give a complete account of how Mr R became involved. I 
not too, from looking at Mr Rs Revolut account statement that Mr R had been 
transacting with Mr G since July 2022. So, its not clear to me why Mr R was happy to 
receive money from others on behalf of this individual when it appears Mr R was able 
to send and receive payments from Mr Gs account without any issues. 
Ive considered what Mr R says about his age and the impact the marker has had on 
him. But he hasnt described being placed under any duress or being especially 
vulnerable. In my view I think its most likely he allowed his Revolut account to be 
used for receiving fraudulent funds. And I think he was a willing participant in this and 
in moving the money on and reasonably knew this wasnt a legitimate activity.
When I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Rs version of events that he knows 
nothing about the fraudulent payments. Having looked at all the evidence, I think there 
wouldve been good grounds to report the events here to the police to investigate, and that 
Revolut was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker against Mr Rs name. I think the 
evidence shows that Mr R was involved in a deliberate misuse of facility as a money mule. I 
also think it more likely than not that Mr R knew rather more about the account activity than 
hes told Revolut or this service. So, I wont be asking Revolut to remove the marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman