DRN-4303373
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral) acted unfairly when 
turning down his application for a loan.
What happened
In 2023, Mr H applied for a loan with Admiral. This had been advertised to him via a third 
party website, where it said the loan had been pre-approved. But when Mr H went through 
the application process, he was turned down for the loan and a record of Admirals credit 
search was added to his credit file, negatively impacting it. Mr H has said this has stopped 
him applying for further credit, including for the refinancing of an existing loan, causing him a 
loss. 
Admiral responded to Mr H to say it was clear when he first saw the offer that any application 
was subject to additional checks by Admiral. It said that when the application was made, its 
underwriting team thought Mr Hs existing loans meant repayments on a new loan might not 
be sustainable and so it declined the application. Admiral also said it had made clear that 
any application would result in a hard credit search and that it had an obligation to report 
such applications to credit reference agencies.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and so it was passed to one of our investigators to 
consider. He thought that Admiral had considered the application and provided a clear 
reason to Mr H why it was turned down. He also said that the term pre-approved in Mr Hs 
case meant that the lender accepted the application in principle, as long as he passed more 
comprehensive checks. And he thought this was made sufficiently clear at the time Mr H 
applied, so he didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. Mr H disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for the matter to be considered again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by setting out what our service is set up to do. We consider complaints brought 
by consumers against businesses concerning regulated financial services. So Im not able to 
deal with everything Mr H is concerned about  for example, I cant tell Admiral to stop 
advertising to people in the way Mr H says it shouldnt. But I am able to consider whether 
Admiral acted fairly in dealing with and turning down his loan application.
I also appreciate Mr Hs frustration as, based on the offer he saw, he thought he wouldnt 
have any problem in getting the loan he wanted. So Ive considered if Admiral acted fairly 
and reasonably to him throughout the application process.
Mr H has provided a screenshot of the page he says he saw when invited to apply for the 
loan that stated it was triple lock guaranteed and pre-approved. There was then a 
hyperlink via a button titled apply now. He thought this meant his loan application was 
guaranteed to be approved. 
But on the third party website where the application was actually started, the application 
process is slightly different and Ive been provided screenshots of what a customer would 
see. On both the mobile and desktop versions of the website, it says the loan was pre-
approved and a link was provided to what that meant. Clicking on that would produce a 
pop-up that read:
100% Pre-approved
Youll get this product if you apply for it, as long as you pass any additional lender 
checks and all the details you have given us are correct. This is why pre-approval is 
not guaranteed.
How this affects your application
Pre-approved offers give you more certainty when applying. They also mean only 
one hard search on your credit report, protecting your credit score.
Mr H has said this was in the small print and it was unfair that this wasnt made clear to him 
when he applied. But I think this is clear that being pre-approved isnt a guarantee that the 
loan would be granted, rather its an indicator that someone is eligible for the loan. I also 
think it was made sufficiently clear that a customer still had to go through an application 
process, with additional checks by the lender and with a full credit search being undertaken.
The rules that lenders must follow when agreeing to lend to people say that they must 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that a borrower can 
afford to repay a loan in a sustainable way. Admiral has said that when its underwriters 
looked at Mr Hs circumstances they saw that he had taken a loan two months before the 
application and they considered that as part of the lending decision. Ultimately, they thought 
that loan being taken so close to the application raised concerns about the sustainability of 
Mr Hs ability to repay the further loan.
Mr H said that this information about the earlier loan was available to Admiral through the 
third party website where he saw the advertisement for the pre-approved loan and it would 
have been available on a soft search. But here Admiral went through a manual underwriting 
process, where somebody assessed his circumstances more thoroughly than simply looking 
at a credit score. Overall, I think Admiral has done what I would have expected it to do when 
considering whether a loan is affordable for Mr H and explaining to him its reasons for 
declining the loan. I think it was sufficiently clear that Mr H would have needed to go through 
a full application, with a full credit search, and so I cant say Admiral has acted unfairly 
towards him.
Finally, Mr H is concerned that a hard search has been placed on his credit file. This type of 
record doesnt say whether the loan was approved or declined, rather it is a record that he 
applied for credit with Admiral at that time. As he made the application in question, I cant 
say Admiral has acted unfairly in recording it.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Admiral Financial Services Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman