DRN-2783285
The complaint
Mr C complains about a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to 
this service on Mr Cs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, Ive referred 
to all actions being taken by Mr C below.
What happened
L2G provided Mr C with a loan of £840 on 13 September 2019. The interest rate was 
207.6% (1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months with monthly 
repayments of £191.99. If Mr C made each payment when it was due, hed pay £3,455.82 in 
total. The loan hasnt been repaid.
Mr C says that L2G failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. He said that this 
was quite clearly demonstrated as it was clear that had any effective assessment been 
carried out, the loan would not have been provided.
 
In its final response letter L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability assessment 
prior to approving the loan. It considered Mr Cs declared income which it verified via an 
income verification tool and it also reviewed Mr Cs credit file. It said that Mr C had declared 
his monthly income as £1,652, but it verified that he received a minimum monthly income of 
£1,339.17 via an online income verification tool. L2G also said that Mr C declared his 
monthly expenditure and credit commitments to total £550. However, following an extensive 
review of the application, in addition to Mr Cs credit file, it calculated these to total £982.08. 
It also then added a buffer of 10% to Mr Cs verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Even after doing this, it said the 
contractual loan repayments of £191.99 would still have been affordable.
L2G said it took into consideration all the available information whilst calculating the 
affordability of the loan taken out with it, and it determined that Mr C had enough disposable 
income to afford his contractual instalments.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint about his loan being unaffordable 
should be upheld. She noted that L2Gs calculations of Mr Cs income and expenditure 
showed that once the loan repayment had been deducted, he would only have been left with 
a small amount of money each month to pay for unforeseen expenditure. She thought that 
as Mr Cs credit file showed that he had outstanding credit with other lenders, L2G should 
have carried out further checks. In all the circumstances, she didnt think the decision to lend 
to Mr C was fair. But she didnt think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr C to 
complete an income and expenditure form and provide bank statements so that it could 
consider accepting a reduced repayment amount for the loan when he fell behind with his 
payments.
L2G disagreed. It said that the buffer that it used was 10% of Mr Cs declared income which 
was equal to £160. So, L2G couldnt agree that this was a small amount as it would 
represent 35% of Mr Cs declared monthly expenditure of £450. Given the type of loan, it 
didnt think it would be unreasonable to suspect that Mr C may have had outstanding credit 
with other lenders. L2G said that some adverse information would be expected due to the 
type of lending. Mr Cs other commitments were included in its affordability calculation. As it 
verified Mr Cs income and expenditure, it didnt feel that further checks would have been 
necessary on this occasion.
L2G also quoted an excerpt from another decision from this Service to support its argument. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to L2G on 31 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that L2G had referred to another decision from this Service. But, as the lender 
knows, we assess each case on its own merits and it isnt appropriate to compare complaint 
decisions as the circumstances might be very different.  
When L2G lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that L2G 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which had to be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Mr C about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Mr C wasnt in an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there were no county court 
judgements against him. There were also no defaulted accounts in the six months prior to 
the loan application. The lender would have likely seen that Mr C had four credit cards. His 
account balance was over the credit limit on one card with a £416 balance where the credit 
limit was £400. Two other account balances were near their respective credit limits, being £7 
and £14 respectively below those cards limits and there was a balance of £654 on another 
credit card. L2G would also have likely seen that Mr C was overdrawn on his current 
account. I couldnt see that the checks showed the overdraft limit for that account. Mr C also 
had two short term loans which hed taken out within the 12 months prior to his loan 
application. The total balance on these two loans was around £700 and both balances were 
subject to a current arrangement to pay. 
Id noted that L2G had said that some adverse information might be expected on a 
consumers credit file due to the nature of the lending. But altogether, I thought the results of 
its credit checks should have caused L2G concerns as Mr Cs finances appeared to be 
under pressure as shown especially by three of his four credit cards being either over or very 
near their respective credit limits, by his overdrawn current account and by the arrangements 
to pay on his two short term loans. I also thought those checks might have reasonably 
caused doubt on Mr Cs declared disposable income. 
Id also noted that L2G had said in its final response letter that:-
When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide 
the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will, and it isnt necessarily up to date. 
A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. Also not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit 
reference agencies.
I could see that this might explain any differences between the information provided by its 
credit check and Mr Cs actual situation. But I could also see that L2G understood that its 
credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of Mr Cs credit commitments. So, I 
thought it would have reasonable and proportionate here for it to gather further information 
about Mr Cs credit situation in view of the information provided by its credit checks.Id also noted that Mr C was entering into an expensive loan agreement. And L2G was 
aware that he had declared £450 for living costs plus £100 for credit commitments on his 
application form which left him with a disposable income of £1,100. This seemed unlikely 
given that he wanted to borrow £840. And I thought L2G ought to have questioned why Mr C 
needed to borrow £840 on such disadvantageous terms if he had a monthly disposable 
income in excess of this amount. So, in these circumstances I didnt think it was reasonable 
for L2G to have relied on the information provided by Mr C without verifying it. 
I could see that L2G said that it had assessed Mr Cs monthly income as a minimum of 
£1,339.17 via an online income verification tool. And it had also revised Mr Cs expenditure 
to £982.08 following an extensive review of the application and Mr Cs credit file. 
Id noted that L2G had referred to Mr Cs expenditure as verified expenditure in its final 
response letter, but I couldnt see that it did verify his actual living costs. I asked the 
adjudicator to ask L2G to clarify how it had verified Mr Cs living costs. 
L2G responded to say, in summary, that it had considered how well the applicant had 
managed historical credit (from information obtained from a credit reference agency (CRA) 
and the applicants available financial information. The lender noted that recently obtained 
credit might not be visible to it at the time of the application. It had also used information 
from the CRA to verify the applicants bank account and their declared income and credit 
liability. L2G also made use of statistical information on UK consumer average expenditure 
to determine what amount of expenditure was deemed reasonable. 
Bearing in mind what L2G had seen on its credit checks and as Mr C was making a 
commitment to make his monthly loan repayments for a relatively long period of time, I didnt 
think it was enough for L2G to rely on statistical information about Mr Cs living costs and 
credit information from the CRA that it knew might not be up to date or comprehensive in 
order for it to have a clear understanding of Mr Cs finances at the time. 
Id appreciated that L2G had used a higher expenditure figure compared to the amount Mr C 
had declared at the time of the application. But, I didnt think the lender could be confident 
that this was accurate and that Mr C would be able to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. So, I thought L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Cs actual monthly 
expenditure. As I couldnt see it did this, I didnt think the checks it had carried out before 
providing Mr C with his loan were reasonable and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr C had provided his credit report to this Service. I had asked the adjudicator to ask Mr C to 
provide his bank statements from around the time of the loan, but these werent received. 
Id reviewed Mr Cs credit report. I could see that this showed that Mr C had a far larger 
amount of existing credit than that shown in L2Gs credit checks. At the time Mr C applied for 
L2Gs loan, he had eight outstanding short term loans (L2Gs credit checks only showed two 
outstanding short term loans). At least seven of these loans were in arrears and two had 
been defaulted. The first default was in January 2019 and the second was defaulted just 
three days before Mr Cs application for L2Gs loan, although I accepted that this latter 
default might not have shown in any credit check. In addition, with regard to the credit card 
shown in L2Gs credit check with a balance of £654, the balance and credit limit on this account had increased from £340 and £396 respectively in May 2019 to £654 and £726 
respectively in August 2019. So, Mr Cs debt had been increasing on that account. Id also 
noted that Mr C had no overdraft on his current account. But his current account was £6 
overdrawn. In addition, two of Mr Cs credit card balances were over their respective credit 
limits in August 2019.
Overall, I thought L2G would have likely seen that Mr C was having significant difficulties 
managing his money if it had made better checks. I thought there was a very real prospect 
that Mr C would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely 
have a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. So, I thought it was clear that 
further checks wouldnt likely have provided the assurance L2G needed and that it was 
unfair for it to provide the loan to Mr C. 
Id noted that L2G said that Mr C had enough disposable income to afford his contractual 
instalments. But it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of whether the 
loan was affordable for Mr C on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to 
establish whether Mr C could make his loan repayments without borrowing further or 
suffering other adverse financial impacts  and not just assess whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Looking at the account information wed received from L2G, I could see that Mr C missed his 
first repayment and then made reduced repayments in the following two months. He 
contacted L2G in December 2019 to say he was in financial difficulties. In my view, this 
further showed the loan wasnt appropriate. 
So, if L2G had carried out the independent view of Mr Cs circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought L2G ought reasonably to have concluded that it wasnt 
appropriate to lend to him and so I considered it was irresponsible to have done so. I thought 
L2G treated Mr C unfairly when it agreed to lend to him. So, subject to any further 
representations by Mr C or L2G my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this 
complaint. I intended to order L2G to put things right as shown below. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been repaid. In line with this Services approach, Mr C 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of £840 he borrowed for his loan. 
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses to 
do so and then take the steps listed below. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt back or chooses 
not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Cs account from when it was 
opened;
2. Treat all payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount;
3. If Mr C has made payments above the capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then L2G needs to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
5. L2G should remove any adverse information about the loan recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file once it has been settled.*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It explained, in summary, that when processing 
loan applications, a series of stringent checks were carried out to determine whether the 
personal and financial information provided by the applicant was accurate and/or reliable. 
L2G also considered how well the applicant had managed historical credit (from information 
obtained from a credit reference agency (CRA)) and the applicants available financial 
information.
The lender also noted that recently obtained credit may not be visible to the lender at the
time of the application. It also used information from the CRA to verify the applicants bank
account and their declared income and credit liability. L2G also made use of statistical
information on UK consumer average expenditure to determine what amount of expenditure
was deemed reasonable.
In addition, L2G said that the extent of the checks may be based on several risk factors such
as the amount being lent, the cost of lending, and the applicants disposable income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
I note that L2G provided more information about its checks and processes in response to my
provisional decision. I note that most of what it provided had already been given to this 
service and considered by me above.
As Ive set out above, L2G had to carry out a reasonable assessment of Mr Cs
creditworthiness before it entered into the loan agreement. It had to consider both the risk to 
it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to 
Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
Ive also said above that I think the results of its credit checks should have caused L2G 
concerns as Mr Cs finances appeared to be under pressure as shown especially by three of 
his four credit cards being either over or very near their respective credit limits, by his 
overdrawn current account and by the arrangements to pay on his two short term loans. I 
also thought those checks might have reasonably caused doubt on Mr Cs declared 
disposable income. 
I could also see that L2G understood that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr Cs credit commitments. And I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to have 
relied on the information provided by Mr C without verifying it. I note L2G has provided information about its checks with the CRA and its use of statistical
information. But bearing in mind what L2G had seen on its credit checks and as Mr C was 
making a commitment to make his monthly loan repayments for a relatively long period of 
time, I didnt think it was enough in Mr Cs circumstances for L2G to rely on statistical 
information about Mr Cs living costs and credit information from the CRA that it knew might 
not be up to date or comprehensive in order for it to have a clear understanding of Mr Cs 
finances at the time of his application. 
I also appreciate that L2G had used a higher expenditure figure compared to the amount   
Mr C had declared at the time of the application. I think this shows it wasnt confident in
the information Mr C had provided. But I also dont think the lender could be confident that 
the adjusted figures were accurate either. And I dont think that L2Gs checks were enough 
here for the lender to be confident that Mr C would be able to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
As Ive said above, L2G would have likely seen that Mr C was having significant difficulties 
managing his money if it had made better checks. And there was a very real prospect that 
Mr C would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
So, the additional information L2G has provided in response to my provisional decision
hasnt persuaded me that I should change my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold
this complaint and require L2G to pay Mr C some compensation and take the steps set out 
under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do above.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to pay the compensation and take the steps set 
out under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman