DRN-3756541
The complaint
Ms P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a unit linked whole of life policy.
What happened
In 1998, Ms P was advised to take out a unit linked whole of life policy which provided her 
with £100,000 of cover if she passed away as well as £100,000 of cover if she has a 
specified critical illness. The cover cost around £41 per month. Zurich is now responsible for 
the sale.
Ms P is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Her CMC has said this 
policy was unsuitable as Ms P was living at her parents home at the time and needed to 
save to purchase a property rather than invest in a unit linked plan. The CMC said if critical 
illness cover (CIC) was required, Ms P ought to have been told to go elsewhere to buy it as a 
standalone policy.
Our Investigator initially upheld the complaint as she felt that Ms P had life cover elsewhere 
and was living at her parents house, so didnt have a need for the cover. Zurich said that the 
suitability letter outlined that Ms P was looking for additional cover but acknowledged the 
additional life cover was excessive for her circumstances. But it felt the recommendation for 
CIC was suitable. So, it offered to refund Ms P the cost of the life cover plus 8% interest  
Ms P could then choose to continue the cover should she wish knowing it contains both life 
and CIC. Our Investigator felt this offer was fair and reasonable.
Ms P disagreed. Her CMC said the offer wasnt fair but felt a reasonable offer would be a full 
refund of premiums less the cost of CIC plus interest. It said from this amount the surrender 
value could be deducted. The CMC felt that the offer Zurich made isnt reasonable as a 
considerable portion of the premiums goes towards the investment and this plan wasnt 
taken out for investment purposes. It asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and 
mentioned previous decisions it had received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Zurichs offer is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ms P was working full time and living with her parents when she was sold this policy. Its 
documented that she had regular outgoings but may change jobs in the future. Ms P has 
said she was looking to save to purchase a house. I dont think that having CIC was 
unsuitable for her. As she had regular income and regular committed expenditure the cover 
would ensure she could continue to pay for this if she became ill. It would also go some way 
to ensuring she could pay for any care or adaptions she may need as a result. It appears all 
parties are in agreement that CIC could be useful for Ms P.
I can see that Ms P had life cover already when she was sold this plan. And I agree with her 
CMC that she doesnt appear to have a need for any additional life cover. Although, I 
suspect that given it was part of the plan and came at a minimal additional cost that Ms P 
would likely have seen some benefit to paying a small additional premium to double her 
existing life cover. However, I do agree that she already had £100,000 of life cover at the 
time and with no dependents, Ms Ps need for additional life cover doesnt seem apparent  
and it appears all parties are in agreement with this.
Zurich has offered to refund the cost of the life cover Ms P has paid plus interest. Ive noted 
that Ms Ps CMC wants a different method of redress but I think Zurichs offer does enough 
to put things right. Ms P says that a large part of the premium went towards the investment 
element  but I cant see that was the case from her plan illustration. It appears the large 
majority of the premiums paid for the CIC  and the illustration shows that the cash in value 
would be minimal regardless of growth in the earlier years and much later in life  indicating 
that there wasnt much premium going towards the investment. The plan was primarily set 
up to provide protection which is what Ms P wanted based on the documents from the point 
of sale.
I acknowledge that Ms Ps CMC has quoted other decisions it has received to show the 
redress should differ. But this service looks at each case individually, and in this case, I think 
Zurichs offer to refund the cost of the life cover to Ms P is fair  as the CIC was suitable for 
her needs and it appears from the point of sale documents that she was looking for 
additional protection. I also appreciate that it would be expensive now for Ms P to obtain new 
cover  but it is up to Ms P to decide whether to maintain her cover going forward with the 
knowledge that the CIC element was always suitable for her.
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd must pay Ms P the offer it has made which is to be calculated as 
follows:
- Refund the cost of life cover since inception to the date of this decision plus 8% 
interest from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd must follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman