DRN-2696597
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the length of time esure Insurance Limited is taking to settle a 
claim he made against his car insurance policy. He wants a refund of his excess as he says 
he isnt at fault for the incident. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr P reported an incident to his insurer, esure. He said another driver pulled
out while he was correctly proceeding and caused damage to the left side of his car. Mr P
provided photos of the damage.
esure contacted the third party insurer (TPI) six weeks later and held their driver responsible
for the incident. However, the TPI disputed liability. They said Mr P caused the incident.
In November 2019 esure passed the case to solicitors to begin court proceedings. Mr P 
complained as he said esure was taking too long to settle the claim. He was unhappy
that esure wouldnt refund the excess he paid when his car was repaired.
In February 2020 esure explained that Mr P was responsible for the first payment of the
claim, being the excess. As he didnt have legal expenses cover, he wasnt insured for out of
pocket expenses. So esure said he would need to look to recover that from the TPI himself.
But it had included the excess costs in its communication with the TPI before passing he
matter to solicitors.
esure said it had made no errors, apart from a minor delay that wouldnt have affected the
handling of the claim. It explained that as the matter is with solicitors, it could take several
more months before it is settled. So esure didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought
esure was responsible for some delay in contacting the TPI at the outset of the claim, and in
chasing for a garage invoice, which delayed solicitors progressing their claim for costs. The
investigator thought as the garage was a contractor of esures it was ultimately responsible
for its delay. So he recommended esure pay Mr P £100 compensation.
The investigator explained that Mr P correctly owed the excess. Once liability was settled, Mr
P could then look to recover his excess from the TPI.
Mr P accepted the investigators findings, but still questioned why he had to pay the excess
when he was clearly not at fault for the incident.
esure didnt agree. It said the garage was Mr Ps preferred garage and not an approved
repairer of esures. So the delay caused waiting for the invoice from the garage was out of
their control.
Our investigator still felt esure could have chased the garage more frequently and therefore
progressed the claim sooner. So he recommended compensation of £75 instead of £100.
esure asked for an ombudsman to decide. Mr P remained unhappy that despite it being 
obvious to him that he isnt at fault, he had to pay the excess to get his car repaired and has 
to go to court.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 February 2021. I thought esure had acted reasonably, 
so I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Neither party has replied to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. 
We dont decide liability as this is a matter for the courts. But we can look at whether an
insurer has investigated a claim properly and acted in line with the policy.
I can see that Mr P regularly called esure for updates. But I dont think esure failed to
progress his claim or caused unreasonable delays. And for the minor delays caused at the
outset  in contacting the TPI  and how frequently it chased the garage for claim costs
evidence  I dont think these things made any material difference to the situation.
I understand how strongly Mr P feels about not being held at fault for the incident. He says it
is obvious he didnt cause the incident. esure doesnt disagree with Mr P. But because the
TPI doesnt accept fault, the only other option available to esure is to either settle the claim
on the best terms possible, or take the claim to court. This means that it requires evidence of
the costs of the claim to bring proceedings.
The incident happened in August 2019. esure contacted the TPI to dispute liability six weeks
later in October 2019. I think this was later than wed expect an insurer to make first contact
with a TPI. But, given the TPI has disputed liability from the outset, I dont think it made a
difference overall. I say this because esure passed the case to solicitors in November, three
months after the incident. I dont think this represents an unreasonable delay. It isnt unusual
for an insurer to attempt to negotiate and settle liability for around this amount of time,
sometimes longer. This is because there are significant costs and time involved if a claim
must be settled in court. When it became clear the TPI didnt intend to accept fault, esure
moved the claim to the next stage.
There was some delay in receiving invoice proof from Mr Ps preferred garage between
December 2019 and February 2020. But I can see that esure chased the garage every two
to three weeks during this period. I think its very difficult to conclude that  had esure
chased more frequently during this period  it would have received the invoice any sooner. I
think esure chased the garage regularly and any delay was outside of its control.
The excess payment Mr P paid when his car was repaired is the first part of the claim and is
correctly owed. As the TPI doesnt accept fault, it isnt possible for Mr P to look to claim the
excess costs back from them.
I understand how frustrated Mr P is by the process. But unfortunately as both parties dont
agree, esure cannot settle his claim until the matter proceeds to court, unless it can reach an
agreement with the TPI beforehand, which seems unlikely. This means the claim is likely to
take much longer to settle.Taking everything into consideration, I havent seen enough to show that esure has acted
unreasonably in its handling of the claim, or that it prejudiced Mr Ps position. I appreciate
that the claim hasnt been settled as soon as Mr P wanted, but I dont think this is due to
esures poor handling. I think this is due to the TPI disputing liability and esure needing
information from a garage which was outside its control.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman