DRN-3368829
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled his claim under his 
gadget insurance when he lost his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr O took out insurance with IPA via a broker to cover his mobile phone for accidental 
damage and loss. He lost his phone when out walking and, after a couple of days looking for 
it, he reported the loss to IPA, the police and his network provider.
IPA asked for proof of purchase, blacklist information and proof of usage. Mr O provided the 
first two pieces of information, although his network provider didnt give him the proof of 
usage. He explained that to IPA.
Mr O chased progress of his claim over the following days, 
but he was unhappy that he kept having to repeat his information, and that IPA kept asking 
for proof of usage which he couldnt provide. Mr O then complained because IPA hadnt 
assessed his claim within the two days it promised. He also complained that IPA hadnt 
treated his claim as urgent or accommodated his accessibility needs after hed explained 
about his vulnerability.
IPA settled Mr Os claim, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in terms of the way it 
handled his claim.
Our investigator didnt think IPA had treated Mr O fairly and recommended that IPA 
compensate him £100 by way of apology.
Mr O accepted the outcome, but IPA didnt agree it had done anything wrong. The complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I can understand that after losing his phone, Mr O would undoubtedly have 
experienced inconvenience and distress. In considering his complaint, Im only looking at 
any additional inconvenience and distress he experienced as a direct result of IPAs actions.
Mr O didnt report the loss of his phone to IPA until three days after he lost it. So, its likely 
any delay in IPAs process will seem longer simply because of the initial few days without his 
phone.
Having listened to the claim call, I note that IPA told Mr O what information he needed to 
provide, most of which he already had. When he chased progress two days later, IPA said it 
hadnt received his information. In that call, Mr O said it was possible he hadnt sent the 
information because he didnt have its email address in his contacts. Regardless of this, Mr 
O provided the information while on the call to IPA and it confirmed receipt.
From here, the main issue of dispute is: IPAs failure to progress the claim; repeated 
requests for proof of usage, and failure to send letters in the correct format.
IPA said it would assess his claim within two working days. I note that it responded after 
three days. So, I agree with Mr O that it didnt meet its promised timescale.
On each contact, IPA asked Mr O for proof of usage,  despite him having explained that his 
network provider doesnt provide it. I understand why IPA needs the evidence, but I dont 
think it was reasonable to repeatedly ask for it after Mr O explained why he couldnt provide 
it.
Once it accepted that Mr O provided the evidence required, IPA assessed the claim but 
found that another insurer had also searched records for Mr Os phone. To ensure that 
liability for the claim was with the correct insurer, IPA discussed this issue with Mr O and 
further investigation was completed. Where a policyholder has two policies to cover the 
same risk, liability will be shared. So, Im satisfied that IPA needed to complete this 
additional investigation. The evidence doesnt suggest IPA did anything wrong by looking 
into this matter.
Mr O complained that IPA didnt respond to him by letter in the format hed asked for. IPA 
doesnt agree. It accepts that general communication, such as policy documents and 
marketing material will be standard format. But it confirmed that any additional letters sent to 
Mr O in respect of his complaint were in the format hed requested. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I cant say that IPA failed to take into consideration Mr Os communication needs.
Overall, I think IPA couldve handled the claim better. I can understand Mr Os frustration at 
having to chase progress, repeatedly explain why he couldnt provide proof of usage, 
seek information from his network provider, and contact another insurer to clear up any 
question of dual insurance. 
Even after IPA missed its two-day assessment target, I note Mr O had to provide his 
information again. While I dont think IPAs need for information was wrong, based on the 
evidence I dont think it progressed the claim as quickly as it couldve done. In light of this, 
Im satisfied that the £100 compensation proposed by our investigator is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and Inter 
Partner Assistance SA must:
pay Mr O £100 compensation by way of apology for the repeated requests for 
information after hed provided it, and for the short delays at each stage of assessing 
the claim, which extended the time Mr O was without a phone.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Louise Hunter
Ombudsman