DRN-3740970
The complaint
Ms G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles did not respond to her email and they 
did not refund fees they charged her.
What happened
Ms G says she contacted Marbles on their email address to make a repayment plan. She 
had made a payment, but she asked them for fees that had been applied to be removed 
given the payments she had made. She believed her query was being dealt with, but after 
some time, she received no response, so she made a complaint to Marbles and forwarded 
her query to the Chief Executive Officer.
Marbles did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. They said the statement notification email they 
send her informs her that the email is sent from an unmonitored email address and the email 
also instructs the user not to reply to it. Marbles said as a goodwill gesture, they would 
refund the last two £12 late payment fees that they charged her. Ms G brought her complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. He said Marbles had acted fairly as they 
didnt receive payments from Ms G between December 2021 and March 2022 and payments 
made afterwards were not enough to clear the arrears that had then built up. He said that 
her statements clearly showed how payments can be made and when they should be made, 
by including how payments are calculated when arrears are owed. He also said the 
statements clearly show how Marbles could be contacted to discuss the account should any 
issues arise. Our investigator said it clearly showed in the email sent to Ms G that the email 
address shouldnt be replied to and that it was unmonitored. Ms G asked for an Ombudsman 
to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms G has said about Marbles not responding to her email she had sent 
them. It appears that Ms G sent them an email on 25 April 2022 in response to the monthly 
statement notification that Marbles sent her on 22 April 2022. But Marbles have provided us 
evidence that the email contained the following wording:
This email was sent to (Ms Gs email address) from an unmonitored email address. Please 
do not reply to it. This email is confidential and intended for the addressee only. Please 
delete if that is not you. So Im satisfied that Marbles made it clear that she should not 
respond to the email address that she did respond to as it was unmonitored. While I 
understand the point Ms G has made about the email she sent not receiving an automatic 
reply or the email address not giving an indication that it shouldnt be replied to (such as 
starting with noreply@ for example), the email was still clear that she shouldnt respond to it. 
So I cant say that Marbles did anything wrong by not responding to the email when it was 
sent to an unmonitored address, and they had made her aware of this. 
From the default notice that Marbles sent Ms G on 26 February 2022, it was clear that she 
needed to pay £123.82 by no later than 19 March 2022, using one of the ways shown 
overleaf, But Ms G did not do this as her direct debit was returned, so she had not cleared 
the full arrears by the date on the letter. This letter also said if she couldnt pay the arrears, 
then she should contact them directly and they gave her a telephone number to do so  not 
an email address. So if Ms G was unable to make the arrears payment, she should have 
rung Marbles direct as instructed by them. 
On the communication that Marbles sent her on 19 April 2022, less than a week before she 
emailed them, Marbles urged her to call them  and provided the telephone number to do 
so, to set up an affordable plan. So again, Ms G would have been able to do so by following 
the instruction set out in their communication. So Im satisfied that Marbles clearly made her 
aware of the consequences of not clearing the arrears and they specifically stated on more 
than one document that she needed to call them to set up an affordable plan.
Ive looked at Ms Gs statements regarding the fees charged. But Im not persuaded that 
Marbles have acted outside of the terms and conditions  that Ms G would have needed to 
agree upon submitting her application  by charging her a fee for late payments or unpaid 
direct debits. So Im not persuaded they acted unfairly by not refunding any fees they were 
entitled to charge Ms G. But as a gesture of goodwill they refunded two of the £12 fees, 
which Im satisfied it was reasonable of them to do this. And when the account was 
terminated it does not appear Marbles charged any further fees. So it follows, I dont require 
Marbles to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman