DRN-2432727
The complaint
Ms M complains that following an accident U K Insurance Limited (UKI) will not pursue the 
third party for liability prior to her making a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M was involved in a traffic accident involving her and another driver while on a 
roundabout. Ms M says that the other driver accepted that the accident was his fault at the 
scene. She reported the accident to UKI, and it agreed the claim would likely be a non-fault 
incident. 
UKI assessed the claim and told Ms M that her car would be a total loss. Ms Ms policy is a 
market value one  this means that UKI would need to pay her the market value for her car 
directly before the loss. UKI valued her car at £1650, and offered this to Ms M minus the 
policy excess of £350.
Ms M was disappointed as she was hoping her car could be repaired as she wanted to retain 
it. UKI told Ms M she could buy back the salvage for £198. 
In the meantime, UKI let Ms M know that the third-party insurer was now disputing liability 
and had offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. At this time Ms M decided 
to place a hold on making a claim. She said, with liability in dispute she was unable to make 
an informed decision on if she should retain her car as it wasnt clear if she would be able to 
recover her excess, in full, from the third party and felt this was a deciding factor in whether 
to continue with the claim.
Ms M wanted UKI to pursue the third party in court to settle liability. UKI said that as the third 
party isnt making a claim and as yet neither has Ms M, there are no costs attached to this 
claim, so nothing for it to pursue in court.
Ms M has Legal Expenses cover attached to her policy so she thought that UKI should allow 
her to use this to settle liability at court. UKI said it couldnt do this as thats not what the 
cover is intended for.
Ms M was unhappy with UKIs position and made a complaint to it  the complaint included 
various points which Ive summarised below:
She felt the car hadnt been assessed properly as an engineer had done this from 
photos and so the repair costs and the total loss calculations couldnt be relied upon
She wasnt convinced the third party was disputing liability and asked for evidence of 
this but had been denied
UKI had a duty to challenge liability through the courts
UKI had denied her access to her legal expenses cover to challenge the liability
There were delays in dealing with the issues to do with the claim
UKI partially upheld Ms Ms concerns, it recognised that it had caused delays when dealing 
with the issue and offered Ms M £250 for this and denying her a copy of the other drivers 
statement. It didnt uphold her other points. It maintained its position that without any costs 
attached to the claim, there was nothing for it to pursue in court and the legal expenses 
cover part of the policy was not meant for UKI to use to argue liability of the claim.
Ms M remained unhappy with UKI and so brought her case to this service. The investigator 
who looked into the case didnt feel that UKI had acted unfairly here and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Ms M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, 
I have to tell Ms M that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here and for 
broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Assessment of the car
The car wasnt inspected in person by an engineer, but a desktop review was done. UKI 
have said that the garage where the car was taken gave some input into the likely damage. 
Ms M thought that the estimate for the repair costs were higher than it was likely to be and 
questioned the decision to declare her car a total loss.
Under section B of Ms Ms policy, Damage to your car it states:
What is covered
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
Pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
Replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost effective than repairing 
it; or
Settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer
This means that UKI get to choose if the car should be repaired or declared a total loss. Its 
not my role to decide if a car should be a total loss, but rather to make sure that UKI has 
acted fairly in making that decision.
Insurers generally base this decision on cost. Normally they will choose to repair the car if 
the repair costs are likely to be below a certain percentage of the value of that car.  Its widely 
accepted that they dont pay up to the full value, as estimates dont always take account of 
all costs and once work begins there can often be unaccounted for damage that hasnt been 
seen. 
In Ms Ms case UKI said her car was worth £1,650 and the estimated cost of repairs was 
£3,254, almost double the value of the vehicle. Based on this, it was fair for UKI to decide to 
declare Ms Ms car a total loss. 
Ms M was concerned that because her car hadnt been physically inspected, this was based 
on assumptions and included the assumption that the sub-frame was damaged, and so was 
a worst case scenario quote.Its common practice for insurers to do a desk top review of lower value cars  this is a 
business decision and not for me to interfere with. However, as Ms M was so concerned 
about this our investigator asked UKI to give a best case scenario quote for the repairs. The 
new quote didnt include the sub-frame damage. The repair estimate was £2,471 so still 
higher than the value of Ms Ms car. Based on this, Im satisfied that UKIs decision to deem 
Ms Ms car a total loss and decide not to repair it was a fair one.
During UKIs re-evaluation of the repair costs it increased the value of Ms Ms car to £1,825, 
as I understand it, UKI has already let Ms M know about the increased value of her car and 
that it is willing to pay the higher amount if she does make a claim.
 Liability
UKI has shown evidence that the third party insurer does not accept full liability and has 
offered a settlement of 50/50. This means that the claim would be considered split liability 
and Ms M would only be able to recover 50% of her uninsured losses, such as her policy 
excess.
The other driver has made no claim for damage and so there are no third party costs 
attached to the claim.
Having assessed the claim, UKI has said that the claim is likely to be settled 50/50 as there 
are no witnesses and no CCTV, so it is Ms Ms word against the other driver. It is willing to 
settle on a without prejudice basis  this means Ms M would be free to explore pursuing this 
in court later if she decided to do so. 
Ms Ms policy along with every other motor insurance policy Ive seen, include a general 
condition which says it has the right to take over, defend or settle any claim as it sees fit. My 
role here is to see that it does so fairly.
I understand Ms Ms strength of feeling here but unless she makes a claim, UKI has no costs 
and so has nothing to negotiate or litigate therefore, I dont think it needs to do any more. I 
must stress here that even if she does make a claim, and UKI decide to settle it on a 50/50 
basis, I dont think this would be unfair given the lack of evidence.
I have looked at the Motor Legal Protection part of Ms Ms policy, as she has said she would 
like to use this to fight the liability argument and feels that UKI is denying her access to this. 
Having done so, I agree with UKI that this isnt what the cover is intended for.
The policy says:
This cover can be used if you have a road traffic accident for which you are not to 
blame that involves your car.
It goes on to list examples of things you can claim for  all of which are uninsured losses. 
The intention of this cover is clearly for you to recover uninsured losses such as a policy 
excess or loss of earnings and not to dispute liability in court, and so it follows I dont agree 
that UKI is unfairly denying Ms M access to this cover. 
Delays UKI has already made an offer of £250 for the delays it caused and for not providing Ms M 
with a copy of the other drivers statement. This is inline with what Id expect it to do in the 
circumstances, and so wont be asking it to do any more with regards to this.
If UKI has not already issued this payment to Ms M it should do so now.
I know Ms M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with UKI can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman