DRN-3570676
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly when it agreed to give him a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr E applied for credit from Lloyds a number of between 2015 and 2017. All bar one of these 
applications was declined by Lloyds.
Mr E complains that he should never have been given the credit at all. He says Lloyds 
should have seen the debt was unaffordable to him at the time and thinks it should have 
realised by the number of applications he made that he wasnt in a position to be lent to.
Lloyds disagreed. It said it declined the first three applications because Mr E didnt meet the 
eligibility requirements after it carried out checks. But it said the eventual successful 
application was approved because Mr E was applying for less credit. It thinks its decision to 
lend, based on that information was reasonable.
Mr E wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. Ultimately an 
investigator thought Lloyds decision to lend to Mr E was reasonable at the time.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needs to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding 
whether or not to lend money. In this case, Im satisfied it did that.
Lloyds checked Mr Es credit file which at the time showed no difficulty in paying back 
existing credit. And it checked the income and expenditure Mr E provided to see if 
the repayments were affordable and sustainable.
Lloyds is entitled to rely on the information Mr E gave it, even if this information isnt 
completely accurate. This is the case only if Lloyds had no reason to question the 
information Mr E provided it with.
In this case, I dont think Lloyds had sufficient reason to question the information 
Mr E provided it  so its decision to lend based on what Mr E told it was reasonable. I 
appreciate the information provided was different to information hed provided on 
previous declined applications, but peoples circumstances can change, and Lloyds 
isnt required to gain proof of what Mr E told it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman