DRN-1998687
The complaint
Mr J complains that he received a lower value than he was quoted, following the sale of his 
shares, by Computershare Investor Services Plc (the business). 
He believes hes entitled to the (higher) value that he was quoted. 
What happened
Mr J was a member of an employee share scheme, administered by the business, in which 
hed contributed £200 a month for 36 months. 
The scheme matured on 1 August 2019, following which Mr J requested to reset his PIN so 
he could sell his shares. In line with its standard procedure the business sent the PIN via 
post, but it was never received by him. Following further enquires, the PIN was eventually 
sent to him via email. 
On 6 September 2019, Mr J contacted the business because he wanted to sell his shares 
which he found had reached a value of £3.20 per share. He was told before this could 
happen the shares needed to be transferred to the Share Plan Account (SPA) from where he 
could sell the shares. 
On 7 October 2019, Mr J sold the shares  for which he received £2.90 a share  despite 
being quoted a higher sale price.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The delay between when Mr J first requested his PIN and when he received it, is due 
it (initially) being sent in the post. There was nothing wrong with the business 
following its standard procedure, before agreeing to re-send the PIN via email 
because Mr J didnt receive it in the post. 
Mr J didnt sell his shares until sometimes after he received the PIN, so the delay in 
him receiving this information is unlikely to have impacted him. 
Despite wanting to take advantage of the £3.20 share price Mr J was unable to trade 
because it wasnt possible to do so without transferring the shares to the SPA first.  
In this case the value that Mr J was entitled to was the value at the time the share 
sale was completed. 
The business hasnt acted unfairly when carrying out his instructions to sell the 
shares from the SPA.
The quotation provided was only an estimate and not a guaranteed value. Therefore, 
Mr J wasnt misled about what he might receive. 
Mr J isnt entitled to a higher value than the value for which the shares were sold.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
In summary, he said:
He waited and cashed in the shares at the higher value. 
When he cashed in the shares he was given a higher value. 
Why would he cash in his shares at a lower price? It doesnt make sense. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He said:
Despite the value that Mr J says he saw or was quoted (when he decided to sell the 
shares), the business provided the value that it received at the point of sale.  
Mr J isnt entitled to a higher value than what the business received upon sale of the 
shares  which was determined by market forces. 
There were also no additional caveats to his instructions to sell, such as not to sell if 
the share doesnt achieve a minimum value. 
Mr J decided to sell based on the share value provided by the London Stock 
Exchange (LSE) as historical data. The business didnt guarantee that this is the 
price at which future sales would be completed. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators view. He says that he was actually told after he cashed 
in his shares that he would receive that higher amount for his shares. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J says, Im not persuaded that 
the business has done anything wrong by refusing to pay him the (quoted) estimated value 
of his shares, rather than the actual value following the sale of his shares. 
Mr J has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that the value that Mr J refers to 
was only an estimate, in this case provided by a third-party business (the LSE) as part of its 
historic data. It wasnt a guaranteed value for future sales, and therefore its not something 
that I can say Mr J was misled about, by the business. I note that the trades took place in 
real time so given how share values work, the value he received upon sale was always 
going to be subject to market movements at the point of sale. 
I note the business says:The evidence Mr J (name anonymised) presented to us shows a share price of £3.10 on 7 
October 2019 at 11:39:00 GMT. He was unhappy he failed to achieve that price. However, 
this price is a guide only and clearly states under the share price of £3.10 this was a 
20minute delayed price and does not state this price is guaranteed. Mr J (name 
anonymised) sold his shares at 13:17 the share price he achieved was £2.90. 
Computershare is not responsible for the fluctuation in the share price as during any given 
day share prices can rise as well as fall..
On balance, Im satisfied that it was ultimately Mr Js decision to sell the shares. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that he was advised to sell them at any particular moment in time, based 
on the value of the shares. I note Mr J says that he was actually told hed receive the value 
after he cashed in his shares, which I think supports my point that the decision to sell was 
his, and not a decision that he was induced into by the business.  
Whether or not Mr J was told that hed receive a particular sale price, after he sold his 
shares (rather than before), the value is always dependent on the actual sale price. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr Js shares were sold for a higher price, and the business withheld 
a portion of it.  
Im mindful of the other complaint points initially raised by Mr J, but none of these change my 
decision. For the record, I dont think the business was wrong to initially send the PIN in the 
post  as it would normally  before agreeing to send it by email because it wasnt received 
by him. 
A lot of financial institutions choose to do this as part of their due diligence and safeguarding 
against fraud. So, in the unlikely event that a customers email was hacked, at least theyre 
likely to receive sensitive information sent to their home (and not direct to the fraudster) and 
therefore raise the alarm if it wasnt them who requested the information. 
I understand that Mr J could only trade from the SPA and therefore I dont think the business 
has done anything wrong by only acting upon his instructions when this was done. 
I appreciate Mr J will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, in the circumstances Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr J 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman