DRN-3807227
The complaint
Ms E complains that G2I Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to G2I, I refer to the above-named company and I include claims-handlers and 
others insofar as I hold G2I responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2014.
Ms E owned a company that owned the car.
For the year from May 2020, Ms E took out a policy to cover the car for social, domestic, 
pleasure, and commuting purposes.
Unfortunately, in mid-January 2021, the car was involved in a head-on collision with a third 
partys vehicle. Ms E and the third party were injured. The third party made a claim against 
Ms E for personal injury and other uninsured loss. G2I appointed lawyers to defend that 
claim.
In December 2021,G2I said it wouldnt indemnify Ms E because she had incorrectly said she 
was the owner and registered keeper of the car.
Ms E complained to G2I that it wasnt treating her fairly. By a final response dated late 
January 2022, G2I turned down that complaint. 
Ms E brought her complaint to us without delay. She asked that G2I reinstate indemnity, by 
paying for her car and defending the third partys claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
G2I had unnecessarily delayed the outcome of the claim for several months before 
confirming to Ms E what the outcome was. He recommended that G2I should award Ms E 
with £250.00 in compensation.
G2I accepted the investigators opinion. It said it was arranging £250.00 to be sent to Ms E.
Ms E disagreed with the investigators opinion. Through her son, she asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. She hasnt given reasons for disagreeing with the 
investigators opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) imposes a duty 
on a consumer to avoid making a misrepresentation to an insurer when taking out a policy.
Where a consumer makes a careless misrepresentation, and that makes a difference to the 
insurer then it is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA . If it made the difference that 
the insurer wouldnt otherwise have offered cover, then CIDRA allows the insurer to treat the 
policy as void and to decline to meet any claim.
From the policy schedule, and from what Ms E has said, G2I asked her whether she was the 
registered keeper and owner of the car  and she said that she was. That wasnt correct. 
The company owned the car. Ms E knew that. So she made a careless misrepresentation.
I accept that G2I wouldnt have offered a policy for a vehicle of which the policyholder wasnt 
the owner and registered keeper. So the careless misrepresentation made a difference to 
G2I and it was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Without the misrepresentation, G2I wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract. so 
CIDRA allows it to refuse the claim. I cant say that G2I treated Ms E unfairly by treating the 
policy as void and declining her claim. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct G2I to meet 
the claim or to indemnify Ms E against the third partys claim.
Nevertheless, G2I was responsible for about seven months of delay in communicating the 
outcome to Ms E. I dont doubt that this caused her uncertainty and extra inconvenience at 
an already difficult time for her. 
Putting things right
So I agree with the investigators recommendation  accepted by G2I  of £250.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct G2I Limited to pay Ms E (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £250.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman