DRN-2061972
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount of compensation Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has offered 
to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside his store card account.
What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy alongside a store card account in November 1997. 
Mr T complained to Allianz that the PPI had been mis-sold. Allianz agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered him £187.18 in compensation. Mr T wasnt happy with the offer as he 
thought it should be much higher, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator checked the information provided by both parties and the calculations made 
by Allianz and said the compensation offered was fair. Mr T remained unhappy and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has agreed to uphold Mr Ts s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Therefore, 
in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
Mr T took out his store card and PPI in November 1997. He has no documents from the time 
or statements about the account and PPI, which is not surprising as it was over 23 years ago 
it was opened, and the account was not used after 2004.
Allianz also has limited information about the account before 2000. It does have a copy of 
the application form on its records and holds full statement information from May 2000 on its 
computer records. However, for the period from November 1997 to April 2000, it has no 
specific data about what was spent on the account and what was charged for the PPI. Again, 
it is not unusual that businesses do not have full information about accounts going back 
many years. Legally businesses are only required to keep records for six years.
In cases where there is no accurate data for the spend and PPI costs, it is accepted that 
some sort of estimated spend and costs should be made for the missing data period. In this 
case Allianz has estimated the spend and PPI based on what is called an average offer. 
This type of offer uses data collected over a number of years about what other consumers 
spent and were charged for PPI on the same type of account for a similar period, when there 
are statements available to show this. It then averages these amounts over the months for 
when there is no data available. This is considered to be a fair approach. 
When it used this approach for the period from 1997 to 2000, I can see that the balances 
Allianz used as being on the account start at £255.43 and going forward varies up and down 
each month ranging between the highest balance of £389.09 and the lowest of £154.76. This 
assumes there would always have been a balance on the account during the whole period, 
with amounts being paid off and some spending being made during the period also. 
The PPI is then worked out based on the balances on the account. These range from lowest 
charge for PPI of £1.04, on the lowest balance, and £2.61 for the PPI on the highest 
balance. Interest charged at account rate is also worked out for the costs of the PPI when it 
was in the balance. The PPI is taken to be the last thing that is paid off the balance on the 
account as this means the consumer gets the card rate interest on the PPI in the balance for 
the longest period which is felt to be fair to the consumer. Once the balance was fully 
cleared, by May 2000, compensatory interest has been worked out on everything Mr T paid 
for the PPI to compensate him for being out of pocket.
As I have indicated Allianz has no accurate data about the spend on the account and the 
costs of the PPI before May 2000. But from May 2000 it has full statement information, and 
this shows Mr T only used the card once, in May 2004 and a premium of £0.28p was 
charged for the PPI. No other spend or PPI charge was made to the account between 2000 
and 2004 or after May 2004. In its calculation of the costs of the PPI, Allianz has included 
this £0.28p amount in its total calculation.
Looking at everything Allianz has done to work out reasonable compensation for Mr T, and 
the total compensation offered of £187.17, after tax, I think is all fair and reasonable. But as 
Mr T hasnt cashed the cheque he was sent for this amount, as he brought a complaint to 
this service, Allianz will have to update the compensatory interest to the date it now makes 
the final payment to Mr T.
I have noted all Mr Ts concerns and the information he has provided about his account. He 
has told us he used this account generally to buy clothes and taking that into account, I think 
the estimates of the spend on the account, when there is no data, is fair and reasonable. 
Mr T has also referred to another credit card he had with another business where PPI was 
also mis-sold, and for that mis-sale he received a compensation payment of much more than 
he is being offered for this account. When considering mis-sale of PPI and the compensation 
due, we have to consider each case on the evidence presented for that particular account 
and PPI policy. So what was spent and the costs of PPI paid, for another account with 
another business, is not relevant. 
Also, Mr T may have used other credit card accounts in different ways for his spending so it 
is impossible to compare one credit card calculation directly with another. 
Overall in this case I think the final calculation undertaken by Allianz, incorporating the 
evidence available and its approach to estimates for the time when no data is available, has 
reached a fair amount of compensation.
So, I am not upholding this complaint that any more compensation is due. 
 
My final decisionI think the compensation Allianz Insurance Plc has calculated and offered to Mr T for the 
mis-sold PPI is fair, subject to updating the compensatory interest to the date of final 
payment. Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman