DRN-2064568
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000  about two years after Ms R got the 
associated store credit account. Ms R was sold the policy over the phone, although she says 
applied for the card when she was in a shop.
   
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms R has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Ms R says she was told she should buy the PPI to get the card. I dont know exactly what 
was said when Ms R first applied for her card, but from the information AXA sent us it seems 
she didnt buy the PPI at this point. Instead she bought the PPI about two years later. 
It seems that Ms Rs recollection of this PPI sale is hazy, as she thought it was sold in store 
rather than over the phone. Thats very understandable given it was so long ago, but it does 
mean Ive had to rely on the records completed at the time in order for me to reach a fair 
decision.
AXA tells us that its representatives all used the same guidance to sell PPI policies, and this 
would have meant it was made clear to Ms R that the PPI was optional. I cant see any 
reason why Ms R would have been treated any differently.
Given the time gap between getting the card and buying the PPI I cant see that Ms R would 
have thought she had to have the PPI in order to get the card.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Rs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Ms R to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Ms R clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly during the phone call. So Ive 
thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But given Ms 
Rs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont 
think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ms R says she was already struggling financially when she got the card and told the sales 
assistant she didnt want the extra cost of the PPI. She may well have done that, but I dont 
think that prevents me from reaching a fair decision, as she didnt buy the PPI at the same 
time as she got the card.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman