DRN-3459598
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Niche) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R approached Niche in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs as he was 
concerned about the security of his DB scheme. On 4 October 2017 Niche completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and objectives. Niche also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious  a 
rating of 4 on a scale of 1-10.
Around the same time Mr Rs employer sent out Time to Choose information asking 
members of the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either 
remain in the BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their 
BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and 
was later extended to 22 December 2017.)
On 19 October 2017 Niche advised Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in investment funds, which Niche deemed matched Mr Rs 
attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the key reasons for this 
recommendation were: to enable Mr R to achieve his goal of retiring at 57 and to withdraw 
money as he wished; to provide control of his investment; to provide for more flexible death 
benefits; and to address Mr Rs concerns about the BSPS moving to the PPF.
Mr R accepted the recommendation and around £320,000 was subsequently transferred to 
his new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr R complained to Niche about the suitability of the transfer advice.
Niche didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said the recommendation was not based 
on the pension achieving the required critical yield, but it was given on the basis of achieving 
Mr Rs stated objectives. It said he wanted to use his pension in a different manner to the 
BSPS, so a like-for-like critical yield wasnt an appropriate comparison. It believes it carried 
out a fully informed advice process gathering all of the necessary personal information from 
Mr R to then tailor the outcome to his specific situation and objectives. It said it doesnt 
believe Mr R has been financially disadvantaged as a result of the advice and it considers 
hes now in the position he wanted to be in when he sought advice.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr R asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said Niche should pay Mr R compensation. In summary they said 
they didnt think the advice to transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. They said the growth rate 
required to match Mr Rs BSPS benefits was unlikely to be achievable and so it wasnt 
financially worthwhile. They also said it wasnt compatible with Mr Rs moderately cautious 
attitude to risk. They said there wasnt a balanced appraisal of Mr Rs options in the 
suitability report including the BSPS2, so they didnt think he was placed in an informed 
position. They went on to say that early retirement wasnt a realistic prospect for Mr R given 
what was recorded in the cash flow forecast and death benefits shouldnt have been 
prioritised over providing Mr R with an income in retirement. Overall they didnt think the 
reasons for transferring were realistic or justified what he was giving up.
While Niche said it disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said it would be 
providing a response, it hasnt provided anything further. We recently reminded Niche that if 
it had anything it wanted us to consider it should let us know. But again nothing was 
received. Im satisfied Niche has been given a fair and reasonable opportunity to respond 
and I think that if it wanted to do so it wouldve done so by now.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions here. 
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not persuaded that it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability
Niche carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing scheme 
benefits. But at the time of Niches written advice of 19 October 2017, scheme members had 
been sent their Time to Choose asking them what they wanted to do with their preserved 
benefits  either remain in the BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
This means that at the time of the advice basing the analysis on the existing scheme was 
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option so analysis of that 
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr R. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of this Niche 
shouldve used the BSPS2 figures instead so Mr R had all the relevant information to make 
an informed decision. If this information wasnt available to Niche at the time of the advice, I 
think it ought reasonably to have known it was coming  so if this was the case I think it 
shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme.
I can see that within its business file submission, Niche has included an analysis report, 
which uses the BSPS2 details to produce the required critical yields. But the report has a 
print date of December 2017, which is after it gave Mr R advice. Its also the case that the 
suitability report only refers to the critical yields based on the existing scheme details. So Im 
not persuaded this was used in the advice and discussions with Mr R. But it does mean I can 
refer here to the more accurate growth rates when comparing Mr Rs DB scheme benefits.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 44 at the time of the advice and it was recorded that he wanted to retire at either 
55 or 57. Niche produced a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report, which shows that the 
growth rate required to match Mr Rs benefits under the existing BSPS at age 55 if he 
transferred to a personal pension was 11.61%, assuming he took a full pension. No figure 
was produced for the option of a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum. The critical 
yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 7.47% if Mr R took a full 
pension and 6.92% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension.
But as Ive said above, at the time of the formal written advice Mr R remaining in his existing 
DB scheme wasnt an option. So, Niche shouldve used the details of the BSPS2 and 
produced the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits instead.
Looking at the analysis report dated December 2017 where the BSPS2 details were used - 
but after the advice was provided - this shows the analysis was carried out at age 57 rather than age 55. But the growth rate required to match Mr Rs benefits under the BSPS2 at age 
57 was 7.63% assuming he took a full pension and 6.17% if he took a reduced pension and 
a tax-free cash lump sum. The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through 
the PPF was 5.72% if Mr R took a full pension and 5.39% if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.0% per year for 12 years to retirement (it was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement 
assuming a retirement age of 55.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had 
also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs
recorded moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view 
there would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the critical yield if Mr R took a full pension at age 57 was 7.63% as produced in the
December report. And this figure was significantly higher than the discount rate and higher 
than the regulators middle projection rate  it was in fact close to the upper projection rate.
Given this, I think it was clear Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a person pension, as a 
result of investing in line with a moderately cautious attitude to risk. Because of the required 
sustained growth rate, I think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Rs attitude 
to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth needed, it would 
have required Mr R to take a higher level of risk than his recorded appetite. And even then I 
think its likely Mr R would have been no better off financially at retirement if he transferred 
out. I also think that, given the critical yields required to match the benefits provided through 
the PPF, the situation was no different.
Im mindful that Mr R was not married and its likely the critical yield figure was based on the 
BSPS2 providing a spouses pension, which wouldnt have been important to Mr R at this 
time. But Mr R had a partner. And although its recorded that he had no plans to marry, its 
possible that he might get married in the future at which point this benefit would become 
important. In any event, the critical yield accounts for escalating benefits so I still consider it 
gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr R was considering giving up. Its also the 
case that the regulator required Niche to provide it and so deems it a necessary and 
important part of the decision-making process.
So given Mr R was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving
transfer advice. I accept there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is
suitable and in Mr Rs best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. And it seems
Niche believed this to be the case, because in the suitability letter the adviser said they
wouldnt recommend the transfer based on the critical yield. But they said because Mr R 
wanted to use his pension in a different manner to the BSPS,  i.e. there were other 
considerations or reasons, they did recommend the transfer.
Ive therefore considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility / control and income needs
One of the key reasons Niche recommended the transfer was because it said it wouldprovide Mr R with flexibility  it would allow him to achieve his goal of retiring at 57 and have 
control over the level of income he withdrew from his pension.
But I dont think Mr R knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement  in
my view the ability to control the level of income taken was simply a feature or consequence 
of moving to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Rs. And 
in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve flexibility 
if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr R was 44 years old at the time of the advice. And while I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for him to have started to think about his future retirement, theres nothing to 
show or suggest that he had anything that could reasonably be described as concrete plans 
for retirement. The advice paperwork referred to his preferred retirement age of either 55 or 
57, which appears to have been driven by the earliest date Mr R could take his pension 
benefits (subject to legislation) rather than any particular need or plan. In my view, most 
people when asked would like to retire at the earliest opportunity. As Mr R still had more 
than 10 years of his working life in front of him before he could think about accessing his 
pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr R to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement 
would be.
If Mr R wanted to retire early he already had the option to do so  he didnt have to transfer 
out to achieve this. I accept that Mr R couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly  
although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension - he had 
to take those benefits at the same time. But again, nothing indicates that Mr R had a need to 
take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout 
retirement. The expenditure in retirement analysis carried out by Niche records that Mr R 
expected his expenditure to stay the same throughout.
Importantly here, Mr R also had his workplace DC pension scheme, which both he and his
employer were contributing to at a combined rate of 16%. At Mr Rs current income and with
the potential of at least 13 years of contributions ahead, this had the potential to be worth 
around £100,000 even accounting for modest growth. Given the nature of a DC scheme, this
already provided Mr R with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take these benefits in a set
way. He couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took
from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R retained his DB pension, this combined with
his new workplace pension, wouldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he
ultimately decided  and meet his income needs.
So in any event, Mr R didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr R
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
some years away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Rs scheme moved to the
PPF, if he opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to
retirement, if indeed it was required. This ought to have been explained by Niche.
Turning to Mr Rs income need. Niche carried out an expenditure analysis at retirement, 
which in one document records that he needed £2,284 a month. I think this was wrong as it 
allowed for £1,000 credit card spending, which Im not persuaded would continue in 
retirement. And it appears this was corrected to £1,284 in the cashflow analysis Niche 
produced.As I said above Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr R needed variable income. And nothing 
to indicate that either opting into the BSPS2 or moving with the scheme to the
PPF wouldnt have provided Mr R with a solid income foundation upon which his other 
provision could supplement, to meet his overall need.
For example, at age 57 under the BSPS2, Niches analysis of December 2017 shows that 
Mr R would receive an annual pension of £14,274. Given Mr R didnt have any known need 
for a cash lump sum  for example Mr Rs mortgage only had a small balance remaining 
which would long be paid off - I think Mr R couldve likely met his income needs until his 
state pension became payable. I think any shortfall, ignoring any provision Mr Rs partner 
had, couldve been met by accessing income and/or cash lump sums from his workplace DC 
scheme. Mr R wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and 
when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I think its also the 
case that Mr R didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established and it wasnt certain it 
would go ahead. And if Mr R had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he 
wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 57 Niches analysis of December 2017 
shows that he wouldve been entitled to an annual pension  of just under £12,000. This was 
lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was 
substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive 
said above, Mr R wouldve likely had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension 
became payable - as well as any provision his partner might have had - to supplement their 
household income. So, I still think Mr R couldve met his needs in retirement even if the 
BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with the scheme to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr R couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF based on a retirement age of 57. So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests 
for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really 
needed.
Death benefits
The suitability report said that the death benefits available to a personal pension were
appealing to Mr R because he wasnt married and he would be free to nominate who 
received any benefits after his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not as a legacy provision
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been
prioritised over this and Mr Rs security in retirement. 
And I say potential because the sum left on Mr Rs death was dependent on investment 
returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment performance was lower than expected, 
there may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
In any event, Niche ought reasonably to have known that Mr R had generous
death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already hadlump sum death benefits available, which I see no reason why he couldnt nominate his
partner to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it also knew that Mr R was paying into
his DC scheme and I think he wouldve been able to nominate his partner as beneficiary of 
this plan too  again if he hadnt already done so.
I can see that in its business file submission, Niche has included some whole of life
assurance quotes with a sum assured for the full transfer value amount. But I cant see any
reference to this in the suitability report - so I cant fairly say that this was properly 
considered or discussed with Mr R as an alternative. 
As I said above, Mr R had death-in-service benefit through his employer, so its possible he
already had sufficient life cover in place to provide for his family. But if Mr R genuinely 
wanted to leave a legacy for his partner over and above that which was already available, 
and which didnt depend on investment returns, I think Niche ought to have explored in 
greater detail, and ultimately recommended, additional life cover. And the starting point 
shouldnt have been for the full transfer value - basing the quote on this essentially assumed 
that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, which isnt realistic - but ought to 
have been considered in terms of how much Mr R wanted to leave his family, after taking 
into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide, particularly as Mr R was
relatively young and in good health.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think Niche
did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr R to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
I have no doubt that Mr R was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF.
So its quite possible that Mr R was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
these concerns and what might happen. But it was Niches obligation to give Mr R an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, I think Niche ought to have used the details of the proposed
BSPS2  waiting for them if necessary - so the advice could properly take the benefits 
available to Mr R through the BSPS2 into account. Had it done so I think this wouldve 
alleviated Mr Rs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, I think that Niche shouldve reassured Mr R
that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to
believe. As I set out above, the income available to Mr R through the PPF wouldve still
provided a solid base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his overall
income need at retirement. He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that Mr Rs concerns shouldve led to Niche recommending he transfer out 
of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr R was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concernsabout his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control
and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension
wouldve sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Niche wasnt there to just transact
what Mr R might have thought he wanted or which sounded attractive. The advisers role
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income - whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF - and by transferring, I think Mr R was likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits.
And I dont think there were any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify
the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time; particularly when Mr R had the 
opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. 
So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2. I appreciate that the BSPS2 
wasnt guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Im mindful that Mr R indicated he wanted to 
retire early at 57, but as I said above, I dont think his plans could reasonably be considered 
concrete given his circumstances. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. Im also mindful 
the annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2 and by opting into this scheme, Mr R wouldve retained the ability to transfer out 
of the scheme (if his needs demanded it) nearer to retirement.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Niches
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the BSPS against Niches advice. I say this because, while Mr R was
motivated to transfer when he approached Niche, on balance, I still think Mr R wouldve
listened to and followed Niches advice if things had happened as they should have and it
recommended he opt into the BSPS2. 
While Mr R had some investment experience, he was not, in my view, an experienced 
investor who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice 
they were given in complex pension matters. Furthermore Mr R had a moderately cautious 
attitude to risk and his DB scheme pension accounted for the majority of his private 
retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Niche
had explained that Mr R could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed
pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R would
have insisted on transferring out of his scheme against Niches advice.
So overall, I think Niche should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
And as per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be 
used for comparison purposes.I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £350 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr R. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish
Niche  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and
practical impact this had on Mr R. Taking everything into account, including that I consider
Mr R is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £350 is fair in all the
circumstances. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr R would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair 
that Niche calculates Mr Rs redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider if suitable advice 
had been given Mr R would have opted into the BSPS2. So Niche should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr R.
Niche must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mr R has no firm plans to retire, so compensation should be based on a normal 
retirement age of 65.In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Niche has 
received notification of Mr Rs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Niche should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also pay Mr R £350 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman