DRN-2915352
The complaint
Miss B complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) has turned down a 
curtailment claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss B took out an annual multi-trip Sports Travel Insurance policy, which was 
underwritten by Catlin. On 2 December 2019, Miss B booked a trip to a country Ill call P. 
She was due to fly to P on 10 March 2020 and return to the UK on 24 March 2020. Miss B 
flew abroad as planned on 10 March 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Ps government began to close its borders. 
Miss B sought advice from Catlin as to whether she should cut short her trip and return to 
the UK. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (now known as the 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office  FCDO) advised against all but essential 
travel to P. Miss B was able to book a new, early return flight back to the UK and travelled on 
15 March 2020. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the costs associated 
with cutting short her trip. Subsequently, Miss Bs airline cancelled her original, pre-booked 
return flight.
Catlin didnt agree to pay Miss Bs curtailment claim. It said the circumstances werent 
covered by the policy terms. It did agree to pay Miss B £150 under the Catastrophe cover 
provided by the policy on a without prejudice basis. It later also offered to pay Miss B £200 
compensation to recognise that when Miss B had sought help from its assistance company 
while she was abroad, it hadnt provided her with the service it shouldve done. 
  
Miss B wasnt happy with Catlins response and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the 
curtailment section of the policy didnt cover curtailment due to a change in FCDO advice. 
But he noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled 
against FCDO advice. This meant Miss B wouldnt have been covered if she cut short her 
trip and she wouldnt be covered if shed continued with her holiday. He didnt think the 
policy terms made the combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Miss 
B had been aware that she wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before she 
travelled, she wouldve been unlikely to take out the policy. Ultimately, he felt it would be fair 
for Catlin to assess Miss Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Catlin disagreed and Ive summarised its response. It said that in order for a claim to be 
covered under the policy, the circumstances of it needed to be covered by the policy terms 
and conditions. As the policy didnt cover Miss Bs situation, it didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable to overturn its claims decision. It said the policy doesnt cover every eventuality 
and instead, covered specified events. It stated that the policy wording was clear and 
unambiguous and it didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. And it felt the policy clearly 
specifically excluded claims where curtailment was due to government regulations.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Catlin to turn down Miss Bs curtailment claim. Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 2, it says:
Where am I covered?
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
Ive next turned to consider the policy terms and conditions. Page 23 of the policy sets out 
the cancellation and curtailment cover provided by the policy. This says:
What is covered
We will pay You the following expenses incurred as the result of any of the specified 
occurrences in paragraphs a) to c) below: up to the sum insured shown in the Schedule of 
Benefits Table in respect of irrecoverable loss of unused travel and accommodation 
expenses paid in advance or for which there is a contractual liability consequent upon the 
cancellation or curtailment of the pre-arranged Trip or, if the Trip is not cancelled,
Specified occurrences:
a) Your death or sustaining an Injury or becoming seriously ill.
b) the death, Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, partner, fianc(e), business colleague 
or any person with whom You had arranged to travel.
c) You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel being:
(i) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
(ii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the United 
Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts.
(iii) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the defence or civil 
administration, the police force, or the fire, rescue, public utility or medical services.
(iv) required to be present at Your home or place of business in Your Country of Residence 
following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire within ten (10) days of 
departure.
In respect of curtailment We will reimburse You on a proportional basis for any irrecoverable 
cost of the Trip following curtailment for reasons as stated in items a), b) and c) (i), (ii), (iii) 
above.
Page 15 of the policy sets out a list of things Catlin specifically excludes from cover. One of 
these says that Catlin wont pay claims which arise because of:You travelling to an area to which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) have 
advised against all, or all but essential travel.
And Ive noted that the cancellation section of the policy also specifically excludes:
Any claim directly or indirectly consequent upon or contributed to by:
Government regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine).
Was it unreasonable for Catlin to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Catlin to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy because: 
Miss B curtailed her trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination she was already visiting. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Miss B had remained abroad, 
shed have not followed FCDO advice. So she wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the contract, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Miss B.
I accept Catlin has excluded claims arising from government regulations. But I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for Catlin to rely on this exclusion to turn down Miss Bs 
claim. Thats because I think the likely deciding factor in Miss Bs decision to return to 
the UK early was because of the change in FCDO advice. And as Ive set out above, 
if shed remained in P after the FCDO advised against all but essential travel there, 
she wouldnt have been covered at all by the terms of the policy. 
Miss B would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss B 
and Catlin. I think its unlikely that Miss B would have purchased the policy if shed 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed 
after shed bought the policy.   Putting things right 
Im directing Catlin to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
Catlin should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman