DRN-3402386
The complaint
Miss L and Mr S complain that Starr International (Europe) Limited declined their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to Starr includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2020, Miss L and Mr S took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy through a broker to cover a multi-stage trip. The period of cover was     
9 March 2020 to 25 March 2020. 
Miss L and Mr S had difficulty returning home because of restrictions imposed as a result 
of Covid-19. They incurred additional travel, accommodation and other costs and 
returned later than planned - on 5 April 2020. 
Miss L and Mr S made a claim against their policy in relation to their additional costs.  
Starr declined their claim. It said that what happened here isnt covered under the policy. 
Miss L and Mr S werent happy with that and pursued their complaint. 
Miss L and Mr S say that Starr should settle their claim as they didnt travel against the 
advice of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office or the World Health 
Organisation and there were no difficulties when they started their trip. They say that 
they had no assistance from the airline. Miss L and Mr S say that their policy doesnt 
mention Covid-19 and that a later version of their policy excludes claims arising out of 
Covid-19, which suggests that their policy covers claims like theirs. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Miss L and Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. They said that 
they were in extremely unusual circumstances and claimed the bare minimum. Miss L 
and Mr S believed that their policy covered all eventualities. They think that what 
happened here should be covered by their policy. 
Miss L and Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. In this decision, Im looking at whether Starr acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in declining Miss L and Mr S claim, Im not looking at the sale of the policy, as Starr isnt 
responsible for that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Starr has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Miss L and Mr S complaint because I dont think that Starr treated them 
unfairly. I say that because:
Whilst I have considerable sympathy for the circumstances in which Miss L and Mr S 
found themselves, insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or 
situation. An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the 
terms and conditions of the policy document. So, its not the case that policies cover 
all eventualities. The onus is on the consumers to show that their claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. I dont think that Miss L and Mr S 
have done that here. 
Ive looked carefully at Miss L and Mr S policy. Miss L and Mr S policy schedule 
shows that their cover is contained in sections 1-13 of the policy. Miss L and Mr D 
didnt purchase optional additional cover. 
The cancellation and curtailment provisions arent relevant here as Miss L and Mr S 
trip wasnt cancelled or curtailed, it was actually extended. Ive looked at the       
Travel Delay and Abandonment section of the policy. That section covers travel 
delay and abandonment as a result of adverse weather, mechanical breakdown of 
the aircraft or strike, industrial action, or security alert. So, what happened here 
doesnt come within that section either.
Miss L and Mr S say that a subsequent policy document specifically excluded claims 
arising out of Covid-19. Im considering their claim against their policy, which doesnt 
cover what happened here. Im afraid I dont agree that a subsequent policy has any 
bearing on this case.
Considering everything, I dont think that Starr acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Miss L and Mr S claim under the terms of their policy. And there are no 
grounds on which I could fairly direct it to deal with their claim in this case. Im sorry 
to disappoint Miss L and Mr S, but I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss L and Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman