DRN-4219058
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to send her a new PIN.
Mrs R says that the delays have led to financial loss, distress, and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs R has a Barclays current account and currently lives abroad. In late November 2022, 
she asked Barclays for a new PIN. Mrs R had to chase Barclays after it failed to send the 
PIN. Barclays then sent a new debit card and PIN to the wrong address for Mrs R. 
Mrs R says shes been without a debit card and PIN since November 2022. After Barclays 
corrected Mrs Rs address, she received a new debit card in March 2023 but as of 9 May 
2023, Mrs R still hadnt received the PIN.
Mrs R explains that shes been left without access to her money and hasnt been able to 
move a large amount from her account into a savings account. Mrs R says shes had 
difficulties paying bills and is concerned about the impact this has had on her reputation. Mrs 
R has found the experience very stressful, at a time of significant health problems.
Before Mrs R came to this service, Barclays upheld her complaint and paid £100 
compensation. Barclays then offered a further £100 which Mrs R didnt accept.
The investigator recommended that Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. He thought it fair for 
Barclays to pay Mrs R £500 on top of the £100 compensation already paid.
Barclays accepts the investigators recommendation. Mrs R doesnt think the suggested 
compensation is enough. Mrs R thinks that compensation of £6,000 would better reflect the 
impact that Barclays delays have had on her.
Barclays doesnt consider £6,000 is reasonable in the circumstances as Mrs R has been 
able to use telephone banking and can move funds around by sending written instructions.
In response to this, Mrs R points out that she shouldnt have to go through the rigmarole of 
having to send written instructions which require her to prove her identity each time. Mrs R 
says that although she has access to telephone banking, she cant see her bank statements.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and Barclays on 14 June 2023. I said:
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Its agreed that Barclays made mistakes when it failed to send a new PIN and then 
used the wrong address for Mrs R. I dont intend setting these mistakes out in detail 
again. This is not to diminish their importance to Mrs R but the issue I need to 
consider is whether I should require Barclays to do and pay more than it has already 
agreed.
Mrs R has outlined the upset and stress that Barclays mistakes have placed upon 
her. This has all been made worse by some significant health issues which Mrs R 
has been dealing with. Mrs R has had to repeatedly chase Barclays for responses. 
She says shes not been able to check her bank account for months and has had to 
pay bills by international transfer.
Mrs R says that she was worried that important payments for her mortgage and 
insurance may not have left her account. Mrs R also says that shes suffered 
reputational damage due to not being easily able to make payments, despite a large 
deposit to her current account, which she also then struggled to access.
Im pleased to see that Mrs R has managed to use Barclays telephone banking 
service to move money to another UK bank but agree that its a far from ideal 
situation. Particularly as the time difference between the UK and overseas makes 
using telephone banking much less convenient. As of 9 May 2023, Mrs R told this 
service that she still hadnt received her PIN  almost seven months after she 
requested it. This seems to me an excessive amount of time to be without a PIN.
The investigator recommended that Barclays pay Mrs R a further £500 on top of the 
£100 it had already paid. Mrs R doesnt think £600 goes far enough to recognise the 
impact the mistakes and delays by Barclays have had on her. Taking everything into 
account, I agree that a higher award of compensation is justified in this complaint. 
Where we differ is that Mrs R thinks £6,000 would be more appropriate whereas I 
dont consider it reasonable to make an award of this size.
Given the length of time Mrs R has been without a PIN and debit card, together with 
the upset and concern shes felt, I think an award of £1,200 is reasonable. This 
amount is towards the top end of an award this service might make where the 
mistake has had a substantial impact on the consumer. It also reflects the fact that 
Mrs Rs upset has been made worse by significant health concerns at a time when 
she has been away from the UK.
I appreciate that my award doesnt come close to the £6,000 figure that Mrs R 
suggested. However, this service would usually only order compensation of more 
than £5,000 in cases where there has been extreme and prolonged pain and 
suffering. In Mrs Rs case, I agree the impact has been substantial and longer than it 
shouldve been. But I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to pay that level 
of compensation given Mrs R has had some work arounds so she has been able to 
access money in the account during this time. Our approach to awards of 
compensation can be found on our website.
For the avoidance of doubt, my award of £1,200 includes the £100 that Barclays has 
already paid. So, if Mrs R accepts my decision, Barclays will need to pay a further 
£1,100.
Mrs R has said that shes made some payments by international transfer. If Mrs R 
provides details of any additional transfer costs that shes incurred, I can consider 
these before issuing my final decision.
Finally, Barclays has written to Mrs R to say that it intends closing her account as 
shes not resident in the UK. As this didnt form part of Mrs Rs original complaint, if shes unhappy about Barclays decision, she would first need to bring her concerns to 
Barclays.
Further submissions
Barclays accepts my provisional decision. 
Mrs R says she is pleased that Ive awarded more compensation. Mrs R points out that shes 
only had access to telephone banking since the end of April 2023 due to not receiving the 
PIN to access this service. So, Mrs R didnt have access to her money and didnt have an 
alternative UK bank account. Mrs R says shes spent a lot of money on international calls 
and bank transfers but in light of my provisional decision has not given further details of 
these costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs R for her comments which reinforce my view that Barclays mistakes and 
delays have had a significant impact on her. As Mrs R hasnt given further details of the 
additional costs shes incurred, I cant include these as part of my award. But I still consider 
my proposed total award of £1,200 is fair in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs R £1,100 in addition to the £100 it 
has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman