DRN-1706787
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because he feels Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to refuse his application for a 
current account was unfair.  
What happened
Mr C applied to Lloyds for a current account. He received confirmation of his application, but 
Lloyds then told him it couldnt accept it because he was considered to be a risk. Mr C 
complained to Lloyds. It said upon review, Mr Cs application failed to meet its criteria and as 
such, had been refused. 
Mr C asked our service to look into his complaint. He didnt consider himself to be a risk and 
wanted to know why Lloyds had refused his application. He said it had sent him a debit card 
and PIN for the account, and said he should contact his existing bank to ask why the switch 
had failed. Mr C also provided information on his credit reports to demonstrate his financial 
stability. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He felt Lloyds had acted fairly 
and consistently in rejecting Mr Cs application, and in accordance with its internal criteria. 
Our investigator accepted it was frustrating Mr C was led to believe his application had been 
successful, and that Lloyds suggested he contact his existing bank to find out why the 
application was refused. But he didnt think Lloyds needed to take any action.   
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. He said there was no adverse data in his financial history and that he had a 
right to know what information Lloyds had relied on in refusing his application. Mr C said 
without that, how can he be assured Lloyds decision was fair and consistent. Mr C also felt 
Lloyds should compensate him for wasting his time by wrongly directing him to his existing 
bank for answers as to why the application was rejected, when it played no part in Lloyds 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive looked impartially at whether Lloyds decision to refuse Mr Cs 
application for a current account was fair and consistent. But in doing that, I have to 
recognise this was a business decision Lloyds was entitled to make, having applied whatever criteria it chooses. And that its not obliged to provide Mr C with an explanation on 
how it reached that decision, or to make the criteria it uses in making such decisions public. 
With that in mind, I cant provide Mr C with all the answers he wants. But I want to assure 
him that in reaching my outcome, Ive looked carefully at the points hes made and at the 
information Lloyds has provided to us, in confidence, which informed its decision to refuse 
Mr Cs application. 
In doing so, Im assured Lloyds looked at a variety of information when deciding that 
accepting Mr Cs application for a current account was a risk. And that the decision it made 
was a reasonable and fair one, and that Mr C wasnt treated differently to any other 
customer. I completely understand Mr Cs frustration at only being provided with limited 
information from Lloyds, and from our service, as to why the application was refused. 
Particularly as he believes he isnt a financial risk. But for the reasons Ive explained above, 
Lloyds isnt obliged to share that information with Mr C, or indeed any potential customers. 
So, I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong here.  
I can understand how Mr C being told, in what appear to be computer generated letters, that 
he should contact his existing bank to find out the reason for the refusal wasnt helpful. But 
Im not persuaded Lloyds actions caused Mr C any loss for which he should be 
compensated. 
Whilst Mr C contacted his previous bank as Lloyds directed, this was part of the overall 
process hed embarked on since November last year to find out the exact reason why Lloyds 
declined his application. During this time Mr C contacted Lloyds and our service, and so I 
cant agree that contact with his previous bank significantly added to the time and energy 
Mr C was already using in pursuing this complaint. So, taking that into account, and 
considering what Id expect to see in similar cases, I dont think Lloyds needs to compensate 
Mr C for misdirecting him to his previous bank.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman