DRN-2329849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Skipton Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs P took out PPI to cover their mortgage payments. The sale took place in 
one of Skiptons branches. The policy was in Mr Ps sole name and gave him protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P says it wasnt clearly stated that he was taking PPI and it was never promoted. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting, but Ive looked at the available paperwork. At the time 
Mr and Mrs P were transferring an existing Skipton mortgage, as well applying for a new 
mortgage. 
On their mortgage application form in the PPI section the words in place are hand-written, 
under a tick indicating cover is required. The form set out options for customers to select or 
decline the cover. This indicates to me Mr and Mrs P were aware they already had cover on 
the mortgage they were porting, and wanted to take out cover for the new borrowing too. 
They then completed a separate PPI application form for the PPI, Skipton has been able to 
provide a copy of this and whilst its not all legible, it is clear that they selected cover in 
Mr Ps sole name and both signed this document. Their mortgage offer also clearly set out 
that they were taking PPI for Mr P, and it showed the cost separately. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs P said but I also have to take into account 
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. Overall, I think the 
balance of evidence shows Skipton made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to take it out for Mr P.
Skipton recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check if the PPI was right for 
Mr P. I think it seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr P was entitled to six weeks pay if he was sick, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would have allowed 
Mr P to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. Mr and Mrs P had significant borrowings secured on their
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover
wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs P if Mr P was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Mr P also asked if they knew PPI was part of the mortgage why wasnt Mrs P also on the 
policy as it was a joint mortgage. So I have looked at whether Skipton set up the cover 
between Mr and Mrs P correctly. I think it did given their relative contribution to household 
income. And it seems that Mrs P was not working enough hours a week to be eligible for the 
cover. The notes on their mortgage application suggest that her income wasnt used as part 
of the mortgage assessment which further supports the banks recommendation that the 
cover was solely for Mr P.
Its possible Skipton didnt give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it first made the cost clear, but the PPI was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it 
pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr P doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing 
medical conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
But Skipton will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Skipton got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Skipton didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Skipton has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
Skipton has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Skipton should also pay back to Mr and Mrs P any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Skipton should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Skipton should 
also pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Skipton Building Society does now have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman