DRN-4333434
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S are unhappy with how Covea Insurance plc has dealt with a claim they made 
under their buildings insurance policy following a water leak.
At times Mr M and Ms S have been represented and at others Ms S has dealt with things. 
For ease of reading, Ill refer to her only.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Ms S got in touch with Covea in August 2021 after she noticed water entering the 
basement of her home. She arranged for a contractor, T, to carry out a drainage 
survey. It identified damage to the drainage system and thought the resulting leak 
was causing water to enter the basement. Ms S paid T for the investigation and to 
carry out the drainage repairs it recommended.
Covea agreed the drainage investigation and repairs were covered by the policy. 
After deducting the £100 excess, it offered around £1,400 towards the cost of these 
things. This is what it would have cost Covea, rather than Ms S, and left her with a 
shortfall of around £300. She accepted the payment whilst the dispute continued.
Ms S queried what steps Covea would take to investigate the basement internally, 
including the tanking system. After much discussion, Covea appointed a company, B, 
to consider this in October 2021.
B said the internal damage and tanking should be declined because there was a long 
term problem with water ingress, possibly exacerbated by recent rainfall. However, 
bearing in mind the other evidence gathered during the claim, Covea thought the 
internal damage had been caused by water leaking from the drain and accepted this 
was covered by the policy. But it said the tanking wasnt covered because it didnt 
think water would damage it. Ms S disagreed and said the tanking had also been 
damaged by the water from the leaking drain.
To move things forward, Covea appointed a loss adjuster who agreed to appoint an 
independent surveyor to look into the tanking matter further. Ms S thought Covea 
should pay for an independent surveyor of her choosing but it didnt agree to do so. 
At this stage, the claim reached a standstill and neither the loss adjuster nor an 
independent surveyor inspected the damage. Ms S complained.
Covea responded in February 2022. It said it had declined to deal with the tanking 
system because it wasnt performing properly. Covea said its purpose is to intercept 
and divert water away from the property, so it should have been able to deal with the 
leak from the drain. Covea said the tanking was faulty, likely installed incorrectly and 
hadnt been damaged by the water leak  so it wasnt covered by the policy.
Ms S arranged for a surveyor, D, to look into the problem. D said a combination of 
the drainage defects and the failure of a neighbours gutter meant that during high 
rainfall, the water table level would have risen above its normal level near the 
basement and exerted a substantial hydrostatic pressure on the tanking system, 
causing it to fail.
Covea said the report didnt change its position. And it wouldnt pay for the report.
Later in 2022, Ms S sold the property. She says she paid to have the basement 
stripped out and has provided an invoice for that work. I understand no other work 
was carried out to reinstate the basement or tanking. Ms S says she lost £30,000 on 
the sale because of the lack of reinstatement  and this figure was in line with quotes 
shed received for reinstating the basement and the tanking.
Ms referred her complaint to this Service. She made a number of points, so Ill 
summarise those I think are key:
oThere was torrential rain shortly before the claim was made and this impacted 
the property. So the claim should be considered as a storm or flood rather 
than an escape of water and accidental damage to a drain.
oTo support her view, she provided information from a weather expert, which 
she paid around £500 for. She asked to be reimbursed that cost.
oIt was unfair for Covea to insist on appointing its own independent surveyor, 
not agree to Ms S appointing D, and not to pay for Ds report.
oAlthough Covea had accepted the claim for the internal damage, it hadnt 
made an offer to carry out the work or to pay Ms S to have it done. It should 
reimburse her the cost of the strip out work she arranged and pay £30,000 for 
the reduction in the sale price for her property.
oIt was unfair for Covea to leave her with a shortfall on the drainage costs.
oCovea caused delays, hasnt communicated effectively and hasnt provided 
all relevant information to Ms S.
oMs S incurred legal fees and Covea should reimburse them.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied the 
weather conditions at the relevant time amounted to a storm or a flood. So he said it 
was reasonable for Covea to consider the claim as accidental damage to a drain and 
the consequential escape of water. Our investigator didnt think it had been shown 
the escape of water had damaged the tanking system, so he said it was fair for 
Covea to decline to cover it. As the surveyor report provided by Ms S hadnt changed 
the outcome, our investigator didnt think Covea should pay for it.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been referred to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, this complaint will only consider the claim made 
under the buildings section of the policy. Ms S has made a related claim under the 
legal expenses section of the policy. That section is provided by a different insurer. 
So if Ms S would like to complain about it, shell need to do so separately.This complaint covers a number of issues, so Ill consider each in turn.
Should the tanking be covered?
This is the main point in dispute. In summary, Ms S argues that water caused 
damage to the tanking, so it should be covered. Covea doesnt agree, it says the 
tanking is faulty, was likely installed incorrectly, and isnt damaged.
The policy covers damage caused by storm, flood, and escape of water from a drain. 
So if the tanking was damaged by any of these causes, it would be covered by the 
policy  subject to any relevant exclusions or other terms.
I think the first step in this case is to establish whether the tanking is actually 
damaged, before considering what caused such damage. Thats because Covea 
says the tanking isnt damaged at all.
Ive looked at Bs report. Its not clear who wrote it or what relevant professional 
qualifications, if any, they hold. Its also not clear what the authors opinion about the 
tanking is. They indicate the tanking may have failed in one place, may have failed in 
another, but also suggest there may be other causes of water ingress which would 
mean the tanking didnt fail at all. Covea disregarded Bs findings about the cause of 
the water damage, as they werent consistent with other evidence gathered during 
the claim. And the position it reached in its complaint response wasnt based on Bs 
findings, but its own view on the matter. Taking all of this into account, Covea seems 
to find Bs report unpersuasive and unreliable. I take the same view.
Covea said the tanking system hadnt been damaged by water because the purpose 
of the system is to intercept and divert water away from the property. As water had 
clearly breached the system, that meant it was faulty. Covea also referred to it as not 
performing properly. It concluded this meant the system was likely installed 
incorrectly. This wasnt based on Bs findings or any other expert report, but on a 
desktop review.
D is a chartered surveyor with significant experience, who inspected the problem. To 
an extent, D agreed with Covea. They said the tanking had failed because an 
unusually high volume of water had exerted significant pressure, leading to the water 
ingress. But they didnt say this was because of an installation problem.
I understand Ms S had the tanking system installed around 18 years prior to the 
claim. She says there have been no previous problems with it. And D noted there 
were no signs of any longstanding issues. These points dont support Coveas 
position that the tanking was incorrectly installed. And Covea has presented no 
evidence of its own to support its position.
Taking all of this into account, it seems to be agreed the system failed to perform its 
function of keeping water out. In my view, as it wasnt working properly, that means it 
was damaged. And theres no evidence to suggest this was the result of an 
installation problem. The evidence shows it was the result of water pressure following 
the drain leak. That means the tanking was damaged by an escape of water from a 
drain and is covered by the policy.
To put things right, Covea should settle this aspect of the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. It should bear in mind that as Ms S has sold the property, a repair wont be possible. In these circumstances, the policy says Covea 
will pay the lower of the estimated cost of repair and the amount by which the 
property has reduced in value as a result of the damage. So Covea should consider 
these options when settling the claim. To do that, it will need to consider what work 
was reasonably necessary to ensure a lasting and effective repair of the tanking.
The claim will be settled by cash payment, but it should have been settled long ago. 
As a result, I think Covea should add interest to the cash payment. Based on the 
claim timeline, I think the payment should have been made around 1 January 2022. 
So interest should be calculated from that date until the date of settlement.
What part of the policy should the tanking be covered under?
Ms S has argued that the claim should be covered as storm of flood, rather than an 
escape of water. I understand the latter attracts a higher excess, so covering the 
claim under a different section would make a difference.
For there to be storm damage, I would first expect to see evidence of storm 
conditions at the relevant time. Here, that means evidence of sufficient rainfall to be 
considered storm strength as theres no suggestion the damage could possibly have 
been caused by strong winds.
Our investigator used two independent weather tools and looked at the rainfall 
recorded around the relevant time. A weather station two miles away from the 
property recorded a maximum of 2.6mm of rainfall per hour. One of the tools 
characterised the conditions as no significant rain or moderate rain. In my view, 
these records arent consistent with storm strength rainfall.
Ms S has provided information from a weather expert. It shows there was heavy rain 
in parts of the UK at the relevant time. And it highlights newspaper predictions of 
heavy rainfall closer to the area of the property. Im not satisfied either of these things 
persuasively show what weather conditions were likely experienced at the property.
The expert also notes thunderstorms can deliver severe weather at a very local level, 
perhaps within a mile. So its possible there was such an event near Ms S property 
that wasnt recorded two miles away at the weather station. I accept the weather data 
is imperfect as it cant tell us exactly what happened at Ms S property. But Im 
satisfied that evidence of the weather conditions two miles away is a strong indicator 
of the likely conditions at Ms S property. And just because there could have been 
stronger rainfall at Ms S property, it doesnt mean there was. The rainfall could 
equally have been less severe than recorded nearby.
The information provided by the weather expert shows rainfall records from the local 
area  one from a nearby station and one eight miles away. They describe showery 
rain/heavy showers and rain, some heavy. The records from the station nearest to 
Ms S shows heavier rainfall than recorded above, but still not enough to be 
considered storm force in my view  up to 12mm over a period of around 20 hours. 
Im not satisfied the rainfall from many miles further away is as relevant, particularly 
given what the expert has said about the variance of local conditions.
The weather expert says the information our investigator used was too limited, not 
meteorologically sound and almost certainly underscores the actuality. But its not 
clear why they think that, so I see no reason to disregard the information. In any case, even if I relied solely on the rainfall records the weather expert provided from 
the station nearest to where Ms S lived, Im not satisfied that amounts to storm.
As Ive not been persuaded there were storm conditions, it follows that the damage 
cant have been caused by a storm.
I would usually consider a flood to be a build-up of a body of water. But Im not 
satisfied thats whats happened here. The evidence suggests a drain leaked 
underground and the water overwhelmed the tanking system before leaking into the 
basement. I havent seen anything to suggest a body of water built up during this 
process. So I dont think the damage was caused by a flood.
Overall, Im satisfied it would be fair for Covea to cover the tanking under the escape 
of water part of the policy.
What is Coveas position with the internal damage?
Covea hasnt been clear about this, so I can understand why Ms S is unhappy about 
it. Covea has accepted the internal water damage, aside from the tanking, is 
covered. It seems to be satisfied the water leaked from the drain, through the 
tanking, and into the basement where it caused damage. That means this damage 
has also been caused by the escape of water and is covered by the policy.
However, I cant see any evidence that Covea has taken any steps to settle this 
aspect of the claim with Ms S. It said it had paid Ms S, but thats not the case  the 
only payment its made is for the drainage work.
To put things right, Covea should settle this aspect of the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. As with the tanking, it should bear in mind that as Ms S 
has sold the property, a repair wont be possible. So Covea should consider the 
options set out in the policy when settling the claim. It should also consider the 
invoice Ms S has provided for the strip out work she arranged.
For the same reasons as the tanking, I think Covea should add interest to the cash 
payment, calculated from 1 January 2022 until the date of settlement.
Should Covea pay for Ds report?
The policy says Covea will pay for surveyors fees in certain circumstances. In a case 
like this, where there is a problem with tanking and damp, I think an inspection and 
report by a suitably qualified surveyor is an appropriate step to take.
Covea appointed B to inspect the damage. The person who carried out the 
inspection has been labelled as a surveyor but its unclear whether they hold any 
relevant surveying qualifications. And even if they do, Covea noted their findings 
about the cause of the water ingress were inconsistent with other information and 
disregarded much of what they said. So Im not satisfied appointing B amounted to 
paying for a report by a suitably qualified surveyor.
Covea was later prepared to pay for an independent surveyor to consider the 
damage, including the tanking. It offered to do this, but Ms S didnt agree to it. Had 
she done so, Covea would have paid for surveyors fees in line with the policy terms.In the end, Ms S paid D to inspect and report on the damage. D is an experienced 
and suitably qualified surveyor who provided a thorough report. This is what I would 
have expected Covea to arrange as part of its claim investigation. And given how 
unreliable and unpersuasive Bs report was, Ds report is the only expert opinion 
available and has contributed to the claim outcome. Taking all of this into account, 
Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Covea to pay for Ds report. In response to 
this provisional decision, Ms S should provide a copy of the invoice.
Did Covea pay a reasonable amount for the drainage work?
Covea has accepted a claim for the drainage investigation and repair carried out by T 
under the accidental damage to underground services part of the policy. Its paid 
around £1,400, after deducting the £100 excess. That leaves Ms S with a shortfall of 
around £300.
Theres no dispute about the work involved  the difference is simply the result of 
Covea paying what it would have cost its own contractor do the work, which is 
cheaper than the cost of T doing the work.
The policy says a policyholder should report the damage as soon as possible and 
shouldnt pay or agree to pay anything without Coveas permission. When Ms S got 
in touch with Covea, T had already carried out a survey and was due to investigate 
further the next day. Coveas call notes say they told Ms S the costs may not be 
covered and it would best not to take further steps until it had reviewed the survey.
Taking into account the policy terms and what happened, I think it was reasonable for 
Covea to pay its own costs, rather than Ts. Had it been given the chance to carry out 
the investigation and the repair itself, it could have done so at a lesser cost. In these 
circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair to require Covea to pay more.
Did Covea handle the claim fairly?
I wont go through each and every aspect of the claim handling, Ill focus on a few 
key points.
Although Ms S initially said water was entering the basement, Covea didnt recognise 
the need to investigate the internal damage and focused on the drainage. This 
caused a delay. When it did take the next steps, it appointed B, and Ive explained 
above why that didnt add meaningfully to the claim. This caused a further delay. I 
think it also led to Ms S reluctance to agree to Coveas own choice of independent 
surveyor being appointed and that contributed to the stalemate.
I dont think Covea proactively progressed the claim. It seemed to think it had settled 
the internal damage aspect when it hadnt and that remains outstanding today. And it 
often only took the next steps when it was prompted by Ms S.
Covea itself has accepted that it didnt always reply promptly and/or thoroughly to 
enquiries from Ms S. Nor did it provide relevant reports as they became available. 
Usually, Ms S had to chase for them.
Overall, Im not satisfied Covea handled this claim fairly. As a result, Ms S was 
caused avoidable distress and inconvenience. To put that right, I think it should pay 
compensation. I consider £250 is reasonable in the circumstances.Other points
Ms S has asked to be reimbursed for the cost of the weather expert information she 
provided. As its had no impact on the claim and Covea isnt relying on it at all, I dont 
see any reason for Covea to pay for it.
Ms S has also asked for her legal fees to be reimbursed. Its unclear to me what 
these are for, but I dont think Covea should pay for them. If theyre related to the 
legal expenses claim, Ms S can direct this point to the other insurer. If theyre for any 
representation shes had during this claim, I dont think it was necessary to incur legal 
fees to present her claim and complaint to Covea.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S responded to say she largely accepted my provisional decision. However, she asked 
me to consider a couple of points further.
She said shed felt it necessary to incur legal costs for specialist representation as a result of 
the way Covea had handled the claim. It hadnt agreed with Ds report, the claim had 
become complex, and shed lost confidence in Coveas ability to act fairly.
Ms S provided Ds invoice and asked what the next steps would be for the claim settlement.
Covea didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms S has agreed with most points in my provisional decision and Covea hasnt 
challenged any of them, I think most points have been resolved and dont require further 
discussion or comment. Ill focus on the points that remain in dispute  the legal fees, the 
next steps with the claim, and Ds invoice.
Legal fees
I can understand why Ms S became concerned about Coveas ability to handle the claim 
fairly  its clear things didnt go as they ought to. And for the reasons I gave above, I dont 
think Covea treated Ms S fairly  in the claim outcome or the way it was handled.
However, the issues involved didnt require specialist legal input. And if Ms S was unhappy 
with the way Covea was handling the claim, she was entitled to follow the complaint process, 
including referral to this Service  all of which comes at no financial cost.
Ms S was entitled to pay for legal representation if she wished, but I dont think it was 
necessary for her to. As a result, Im not satisfied it would be fair for me to require Covea to 
reimburse those legal fees.
Next steps with the claim
I know Ms S is concerned that the award I set out will mean having to deal with Covea 
further. But thats unavoidable.I set out the policy cover above  broadly that the cash settlements will be based on the 
lower of two estimated values. At the moment, neither value has been properly estimated 
and there may be a number of steps involved in carrying out the estimates, so I cant award 
a specific claim value as part of this decision.
However, I remind Covea that its required to handle claims promptly and fairly. It must keep 
that in mind when settling this claim, particularly given the way the claim has been handled 
so far. And the cash settlement is subject to interest, so the longer it takes Covea, the more 
it will have to pay. So its in both parties interest to settle the claim as soon as possible.
Ds invoice
Ms S has shown she paid £1,200, including VAT, for Ds services. So Ill amend my award to 
reflect the specific amount paid.
Other than that, I remain satisfied the award I set out in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable for the reasons given.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Settle the internal damage and tanking aspects of the claim by cash payment.
Pay interest on the cash payment at 8% simple per year, from 1 January 2022 to the 
date of settlement*
Pay £1,200 for Ds report**
Pay £250 compensation**
*If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M and Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M 
and Ms S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
**Covea must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M and Ms S 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman