DRN-4280228
The complaint
Mr P complains that his account has been blocked by Computershare Investor Services Plc, 
referred to as Computershare or the business, despite him providing the relevant 
documentation to unblock it.  
What happened
Mr P was trying to trade on one of his accounts, but the trade was denied because the 
business required identification documentation as part of its due diligence. He subsequently 
provided the necessary documentation and was able to trade but one of his other accounts 
remained blocked. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that under various anti-money laundering rules and regulations, financial 
businesses are under pressure to operate under a specific legal framework. How they do 
that is a matter for them, different businesses will have different procedures in place. Its not 
for us to tell a business how it should comply or do this. 
In other words, he cant blame the business for requiring certain documentation  in pursuit 
of its compliance with the relevant rules and regulation  because its obliged to. He said 
doing this hasnt been easy and has become more complex over the years, but that a 
regulated financial business has no choice but to comply. 
The business was entitled to seek documentation in order to re-satisfy itself of Mr Ps identity 
and not follow his instructions until the matter was resolved. The above notwithstanding, the 
terms and conditions made clear the following points:
We reserve the right to reject instructions from you. We may do this if we think we 
need to obtain further information from you, or to comply with any legal requirements 
(for example: obtaining evidence of identity to comply with money laundering 
regulations).
We will not do anything which we think would or might break any relevant laws, 
rules, regulations or codes, or risk exposing us to criticism for behaving improperly or 
not acting in accordance with good market practice.
The other account had been blocked, but the business said just to remind it that the relevant 
documents had already been supplied. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
doesnt think that the investigator has got to the crux of the issue. He doesnt for example 
understand why, under certain circumstances the business required documentation/proof 
and not in others. He made numerous other observations that arent necessary to repeat 
here. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the Mr P says, I cant safely say 
that the business behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr P has about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P, and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  
Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
A financial firm like Computershare acts is under a number of obligations. They have 
to look after the money and assets that their customers entrust to them. And they 
have to comply with anti-money laundering (as well as in certain circumstances 
terrorist finance) requirements. Checking a customers identity (and source of wealth) 
plays a part in both. When financial firms make these checks it can be frustrating for 
the customer, but there are good reasons for them to be done  they ought to be 
thought of as a necessary inconvenience.
So, it wasnt the case that Computershare suspected Mr P of money laundering. 
Instead, it had a duty to ensure that it was abiding by the laws and regulations 
relevant to its business  some of those requiring it to ensure it verified who its 
customers are, and where the money comes from if relevant.
Financial firms are required to take a risk-based approach and often use processes 
that try to minimise the inconvenience to customers. Im satisfied that what 
Computershare tried to do in this instance with regards to the account blocks, 
especially the second one where it said just to remind it that the relevant documents 
had already been sent. 
Computershare was always obliged to carry out the necessary checks. 
The above notwithstanding, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions made clear 
that the business had a right to refuse to carry our instructions until further 
information had been provided if thats what the business thought it needed. It 
specifically mentioned obtaining evidence of identity to comply with money laundering regulations and reminded customers that it wont do anything that might 
break the law. 
I note the issue Mr P raises about his second account remaining blocked, but the 
business has made clear that he ought to just remind it that hes already submitted 
the relevant documents in relation to the other account. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable approach. Im aware that the account has been unblocked now and Mr 
P is free to use it. 
Im aware that the business originally used an external company that completed all 
Computershares dealing until Computershare terminated this and brought the 
service inhouse. Because of this service users were told theyd need to re-register for 
the new inhouse dealing. The business wonders whether Mr P had been using 
some old details when trying to deal or access his account. Im mindful Mr P thinks 
this is highly unlikely, but I dont think that it (or even entering incorrect details) is 
impossible.  
Despite what Mr P says about why verification was needed in this instance but not in 
relation to dividends, this doesnt in my opinion preclude a business from seeking 
proof of identification or re-verifying a customers account. As I alluded to above, a 
business is obliged to carry out the appropriate identification checks under various 
anti-money laundering (and know your customer) requirements.
In any case, the business has made clear that dividends are not the subject of money 
laundering checks because dividends are not regulated. However, when a customer 
is dealing, theyre setting up a new relationship with the broker and the broker has to 
comply with the additional checks. So, despite what Mr P might say, the business 
wasnt wrong, to not ask for identification before paying dividends, from a regulatory 
point of view. And just because it didnt on that occasion, doesnt mean it was wrong 
to do so in relation to this case.  
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. 
I note he believes the business has behaved unreasonably and that he might be due some 
compensation, but I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate his deep frustration and anguish, Im not 
going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr P says, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman