DRN-4010652
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Tymit Ltd closed his account and feels they should remove all traces of it 
from his credit file. 
What happened
Mr C had a Tymit Booster credit card account. In December 2022, Tymit decided they no 
longer wished to provide this type of account to any of their customers. So, they gave Mr C 
two months notice that his account would be closed. They also made him aware of a 
different credit provider which offers a similar type of account.
Mr C was very unhappy with Tymits decision. He said hed only opened the account a few 
months ago and he planned to keep it for at least a year. He was also very concerned the 
accounts early closure would negatively impact his credit file. So, he asked Tymit to close 
the account straight away, remove all traces of it from his credit file and refund all the 
account fees.
In response, Tymit confirmed the account had been closed and the fees had been refunded. 
However, they refused to remove the account from Mr Cs credit file. They said they'd 
shared accurate information with the credit reference agency they use, and the account now 
shows as fully settled. So, no error had been made and any future lenders would see correct 
information about the way the account had been managed. They also gave Mr C a link to 
some guidance about credit files.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
Tymit were entitled to close the account and he didnt think they'd acted unfairly by declining 
to remove it from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion and said the negative impact of the accounts 
early closure should be given more consideration. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C has been working hard to improve his credit file and Tymits commercial 
decision to close his account was greatly disappointing to him. However, for the reasons Ill 
now explain I dont uphold this complaint.    
Credit providers are free to decide which accounts and products they would like to offer their 
customers. This can sometimes mean they make the difficult decision to close their existing 
customers accounts. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account explain that Tymit can 
close the account if they give two months notice. Tymit complied with this requirement here, 
so while I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with their decision, Im satisfied they didnt do anything 
wrong, and they followed the correct account closure process. 
Ive considered the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. These are set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
They explain that if a lender reports information to the credit reference agencies it must be 
accurate and up to date. This is important as lenders rely on the accuracy of this information 
to help them make decisions about credit applications.
If a lender makes an error and reports incorrect information, Id reasonably expect them to 
put things right by promptly updating or removing the information. I wouldnt expect them to 
remove information simply based on a customers request, or because they've decided they 
no longer wish to offer a financial product to their customers. 
Mr C doesnt dispute the fact his credit file shows accurate information about this account, so 
Im satisfied Tymit have complied with the above reporting principals. I appreciate the 
reasons Mr C would like Tymit to remove the account information in any event. However, 
removing this information would suggest the account never existed and thats not a true 
reflection of what happened. So, I see no grounds for directing Tymit to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman