DRN-3974936
The complaint
Mr M says Inter Partner Assistance SA provided poor service when he made a claim on his 
motor breakdown policy and that its agent damaged his car. 
What happened
Mr M called IPA for assistance on 30 May 2022 when his car lost power. He had to wait 4.5 
hours at the side of a motorway with his wife in hot and dangerous conditions. The delay 
was partly because the first recovery firm IPA had instructed cancelled the job. Mr M says an 
agent from the second recovery firm (firm G) tried to start the engine, then tried again twice 
using battery booster packs  and that at firm Gs yard, another agent tried to start the car.   
Mr M was able to hire firm Gs courtesy car, so that he and Mrs M could continue with their 
journey to a holiday home. It was agreed that hed drive that car back to his home on 
Sunday, 6 June 2022, and that the next day firm G would collect it and take his own car to 
his local garage. Subsequently, garage G said it would be delivering Mr Ms car to his home 
address on 6 June 2022. He had to rush back and pay for its recovery to his local garage, 
which said the cars turbo had failed. It also found that there was damage to the starter 
motor and the battery cable  issues it said were not connected to the engine failure. The 
engineer thought the issues could be due to attempts to start the car after it broke down. 
IPA said firm G just recovered the car. It provided system notes and call sheet notes that 
made no reference to roadside assistance being attempted and said the operator who caried 
out the recovery didnt have a job card for it. Later on, IPA said firm Gs recovery trucks dont 
normally carry battery packs. It also said it wasnt normal for a recovery agent to start a 
vehicle unless it had an electronic hand brake, which was stuck on.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint,  but she didnt uphold it. She thought 
IPA had acted reasonably in paying Mr M £150 for delays and poor communication. In her 
opinion, Mr M hadnt shown that firm G caused the starter motor to burn out. She said the 
repairing garage had said it was possible for such damage to be caused by a consumer 
trying to start their cars engine. Mr M asked his garage for clarification. It said that was 
possible, but unlikely. Meanwhile, Mr Ms representative said Mr Ms car has an electronic 
handbrake, which was stuck on when the recovery took place.  As the investigator didnt 
change her view, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Initial service issues
IPAs notes show that Mr M accepted its offer of £150 compensation for the initial delays and 
poor communication. I think that was a reasonable attempt to compensate for the distress 
and inconvenience caused at that time. So Ill  focus on what happened after that.
Damage to the car
In the initial call to IPA, Mr M said the engine had failed. IPA recorded that it had seized, but 
I dont think the difference in terminology makes a difference here. I think its clear from the 
call that the intention on both sides was simply to have the car recovered. 
Mr Ms vehicle had to be transferred onto the recovery vehicle. IPA told us firm Gs recovery 
operators dont normally carry battery booster packs and that there was no note to say that 
theyd been used. But firm G told us that they do carry them  to release electronic 
handbrakes and / or to get automatic vehicles out of park, so they can be moved without 
causing any damage.
I think its of concern that the recovery driver didnt record what happened when he arrived. 
Mr Ms car had an electronic handbrake, and he says the battery was flat, as the cars 
hazard lights had been on for four and a half hours. Given these circumstances, I think its 
more likely than not that the recovery operator would have tried to start the engine using 
battery packs in order to release the handbrake. 
Mr Ms garage said that (given the failed turbo) it would have been inadvisable to try to start 
the engine at all - but the recovery operator wouldnt have known the cause of the engine 
failure. And in the opinion of Mr Gs garage, if the recovery operator used battery packs to try 
to start the engine, that could have caused the starter motor to burn out and the main battery 
cable to fail. Mr Ms garage later replaced those parts at a total cost of £783. 
As the investigator couldnt be sure whether, had Mr M had tried to start the car after the 
engine failed, that may have caused some damage, she contacted one of Mr Ms garages 
engineers. The engineer said many attempts to start the engine would have had to be made 
in order to burn out a starter motor. Later on, he pointed out that there were fuses in place to 
prevent a battery pack shorting out the electrics. He also said in order to burn out the starter, 
cranking the engine would have had to continue for a long time, but that without knowing the 
age or history of the vehicle, it was hard to say whether that had happened. 
I dont think theres enough evidence for me to be able to say for sure what caused the 
damage. My understanding is that there could have been a loose or corroded electrical 
connection that Mr M wasnt aware of at the time of the breakdown. And I cant be sure that 
he didnt try to start the engine at some point whilst waiting for recovery. I think its likely that 
the recovery operator tried to do so, given that battery packs are carried for the specific 
purpose of starting the engine if a car has an electronic handbrake thats stuck on. But Mr M 
cant show that the operator made many attempts to start the car, over a long period, which 
his garage thinks would have been necessary to cause the damage. 
I can only base my decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. I think 
the recovery firm may have contributed to the damage to the starter motor, but there could 
have been other causes for it. On the information available to me currently I cant conclude 
that it would be reasonable to hold IPA liable for the cost of the relevant repairs. 
 
Delivery home of Mr Ms car
We asked IPA to explain why the plan set up for returning Mr Ms car to his home the day 
after he got back from holiday was changed at the last minute. IPA said it couldnt say, but 
that the change was probably due to availability. Mr M wasnt told of the change until the 
day he was travelling home. He was inconvenienced by it as he had to get home earlier than 
planned - and he also had to arrange to have his car taken to his garage the next day, which 
cost him £150. 
The policy says that if a car cant be repaired on the day its recovered, IPA will either 
provide overnight accommodation, or 24-hour car hire, or take the car and passengers home 
or to their destination, where the car will be taken to a repairer. In this case, the circumstances were unusual. Mr M paid to hire a car from the garage, so he 
could drive himself and Mrs M to their holiday home. Mr and Mrs M wanted their car to be 
recovered to a garage in their home area  but for the recovery to be delayed, given that 
they were elsewhere (with the garages car) for a week. I think it was reasonable for Mr M to 
expect the car to be delivered on a day the recovery firm could take it to a local garage. It 
seems thats what had been agreed and I think it reflects what the policy says. So in my 
opinion, IPA should refund the £150 recovery charge and should also pay Mr M a further 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this issue.       
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. IPA accepted them. Mr Ms 
representative said Mr M knew from experience that attempts shouldnt be made to start an 
engine after a massive discharge of smoke. Mr M said he saw someone at garage Gs yard 
show the recovery operator the release mechanism under the bonnet, which he thinks 
shows the operator wasnt sufficiently trained to recover his car. 
 
The engineer at Mr Ms garage who carried out the repairs to his car said the following:
it wouldnt have been possible to burn out the starter motor and the wiring loom by 
trying to start the vehicle using its own battery, but if multiple jump packs were used, 
the problem was caused by over-voltage. He said 24 volts could have been put 
through the cars 12-volt electrics, in a series circuit rather than a parallel circuit 
the recovery operator should have known that the vehicle has a mechanical release 
for the handbrake located under the bonnet. Using it would have negated the need 
for the use of a battery pack
The car went into the local garage for a health check prior to Mr M and Mrs M 
setting off on their holiday journey. No faults or oxidation were noted 
Mr M and his representative queried whether AXA had provided call recordings and copies 
of notes / job cards made by the recovery operator. They asked whether we had decided not 
to take a statement from Mr M  or to ask him about his extensive knowledge of vehicles and 
about the chain of events - in order to make the claim look less valid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We invite consumers to provide their version of events and any other information they think 
is relevant when completing our complaint form. When an investigator starts to review a 
complaint, they put a summary of it to the consumer. Mr Ms response to the investigators 
contact was just to refer to the lengthy delay in the recovery process. Even after she didnt 
uphold his complaint, Mr M didnt add anything to the details hed already provided. In my 
provisional decision I referred to the call recordings IPA had provided and said it had given 
us system / call sheet notes, but that it had said a job card wasnt used. 
If Mr M noted a massive discharge of smoke from the car, I think hes very unlikely to have 
tried to start it after pulling onto the hard shoulder. But Mr M didnt mention the smoke to us 
previously, nor did he tell IPA about it when he made his initial call for assistance. Given that 
Mr M knew how just unsafe it would be to try to start the car, its not clear why he didnt tell 
the recovery operator about the smoke and stop him using the jump packs. I think most 
consumers would have done so. The car could have been moved onto the recovery truck 
(using skids, which is what happened) with no attempt being made to start the engine.  
 
Mr M also didnt tell us previously that the car had a mechanism under the bonnet that could 
be used to release the handbrake. Initially, he said that in the recovery yard, another operator tried to start the car with a battery pack. He didnt say that person had shown the 
recovery operator where in the bonnet the release mechanism was. And if the release 
mechanism was located at the yard, it isnt clear why anyone there used a battery pack.  
Ideally, I think the recovery operator who attended the breakdown should have known about 
the release mechanism. But the lack of that knowledge didnt lead directly to the damage to 
the starter motor, as the car was movable without using it. It isnt clear from Mr Ms account 
whether he knew about the mechanism at the time. But if he did, had he mentioned it to the 
recovery operator, he may have been able to use it once he located it. 
Ive considered all the remarks made by Mr Ms engineer. Even if no obvious faults or 
oxidation were noted during the health check, I think there could have been an undiscovered 
fault - such as a loose connection - or a problem could have occurred after the check. The 
engineer said the cars own battery couldnt have burned out the starter motor (although one 
of his colleagues had told us it was possible). The engineer said he suspected that  if 
multiple attempts were made to start the car with jump packs  then what caused the starter 
motor to burn out was over-voltage. But his opinion is based on Mr Ms account of events. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that multiple 
attempts were made to start the engine, with or without battery packs. 
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view that there isnt sufficient evidence to 
conclude that the recovery operator probably caused the damage to the cars starter motor. 
So I cant uphold that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. But I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for IPA to refund the recovery charge Mr M paid his local garage and to pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that arose as a result of that issue.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to refund the sum paid by Mr M for the recovery of his car to his local garage, to add interest 
to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8% (from the date the bill was paid to the date of the 
settlement) and to pay Mr M a further £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. If 
IPA thinks HM Revenue and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction certificate 
if required, so Mr H can reclaim the tax if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman