DRN-3200491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a personal 
loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 1996 at the same time as applying for the loan. Neither Mr 
and Mrs M nor Nationwide can confirm the sales process.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say that, just because the sale was a long time ago, that shouldnt be an 
argument against the PPI having been mis-sold. I agree with that. But because the sale was 
in 1996, Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale that might have made the 
investigation easier. To be clear, businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely 
and it is not surprising that it no longer has the documents from 1996 relating to the loan or 
the PPI, especially as the loan account has been closed for many years.
In reaching a decision I have relied on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Although we dont have the actual paperwork, this service has seen many examples of the 
types of application forms and sales scripts that were in use around that time. From what we 
know of Nationwides sales processes  both over the phone and in branch  the PPI was 
usually presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to 
conclude that something else happened in this case.
Mr and Mrs M say they would never have consented to buying PPI  meaning that it was 
added without their knowledge or consent. Ive thought very carefully about this, but Ive also 
considered how long ago the sale took place and how this may have affected Mr and Mrs 
Ms memory of the sale. I have no doubt that they have provided their genuine recollection of 
events but, given that the sale was in 1996, it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have 
faded.
On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs M probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so. 
 
Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr and Mrs M say they would have received some sick pay from their jobs. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr and Mrs M would 
have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs M say they would have had some savings at the time. 
But having the policy would have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs M had a 
need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Mr M says he didnt have a need for insurance because he was in good health and in secure 
employment. However, it is the nature of insurance to provide cover against any unforeseen 
events or changes in circumstance. 
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of 
those things. For example they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might 
have been excluded from the policy. As I consider they had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont consider that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman