DRN-3137130
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor 
Finance that he electronically signed in May 2021. The car was delivered to him and he says 
that he soon noticed issues with the cars air conditioning and heating and the car broke 
down. He took the car to a manufacturers dealer and it replaced the battery and the air 
conditioning sensor and identified substantial front end damage from a previous collision that 
hadnt been repaired adequately. 
Mr A complained to Specialist Motor Finance and it offered to pay £200 towards the cost of 
the replacement battery. It also arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert and then agreed to pay for the repairs required to the wiring and air conditioning  but 
it said that it didnt uphold his complaint relating to the condition of the body work and didnt 
feel that he had grounds to reject the car. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that it was 
highly likely that the car was in an accident prior to sale and was repaired to a poor standard. 
He recommended that Specialist Motor Finance should: end the agreement; refund the £150 
delivery cost; collect the car; refund any deposit and any monthly payments (pro-rata) for the 
time that Mr A was unable to use the car due to it being in the garage (excluding time a hire 
car was paid for); pay interest on the refunded amounts; remove any adverse information 
from Mr As credit file; refund Mr As consequential losses (provided evidence of cost was 
provided) for all costs associated with the manufacturers dealers inspection and any repair 
carried out and the full cost of replacing the battery of £353.59; and pay £250 for the loss of 
enjoyment that this had caused him.
Mr A has accepted those recommendations but Specialist Motor Finance has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
had the car been in the condition that it was in at the point of inspection, Mr A would 
have been aware of the issues immediately and, while it would consider making 
arrangements to take the car back, it doesnt accept all of the costs that its being 
asked to consider;
the previous diagnostics and repairs were completed without its knowledge and 
authorisation at a garage of Mr As choosing so it will only offer a contribution to the 
costs;
the average cost of a replacement battery is £220 so it will increase its our offer to 
that amount and cover 62% of the invoiced costs  which it says is £388; and
it would like more information about Mr As loss of enjoyment as it offered to 
contribute towards the repairs which had raised concerns regarding the safety of the 
car but Mr A declined its offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Specialist Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr A was about five years old, had been driven for 
34,750 miles and had a price of £14,784;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr A saw the car advertised online and paid £150 for it to be delivered to him so he 
didnt see the car until it was supplied to him;
he says that the car broke down a few days after it had been delivered to him and he 
was told that it had the wrong battery;
he took the car to a manufacturers dealer in July 2021 and paid the dealer £625.83 
for it to replace the battery and the air-conditioning sensor and for some other work  
the invoice shows that the charge for replacing the battery was £194.72 (which with 
VAT would be £233.67);
the manufacturers dealer also identified accident damage which had been very 
poorly repaired and which it said would cost £6,818 to put right;
Mr A complained to the dealer but it said that the battery wasnt covered by the 
warranty and that the car hadnt been damaged when it was supplied to him;
Mr A complained to Specialist Motor Finance and it offered to pay £200 towards the 
cost of the replacement battery and to pay for the repairs to the wiring and the air-
conditioning, and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert;
the inspection took place in August 2021 and the independent experts report 
recorded the cars mileage as 37,582 and concluded that: The damage to the front 
bumper cannot be confirmed as being present at the point of purchase, and the front 
wing liners touching the tyres was not present at point of sale but that the electrical 
faults have been induced by the previous repairs, therefore, in our opinion, the 
vehicle had a developing condition at the point of purchase and the sales agent 
should be responsible for the rectification costs, and repatriation of the air 
conditioning system;
the car was delivered to Mr A in May 2021, the accident damage and poor repairs 
was identified by the manufacturers dealer in July 2021 and the independent expert 
inspected the car in August 2021;
I dont consider it to be likely that the car would have been damaged in an accident 
after it was supplied to Mr A and that hed then have paid for it to be poorly repaired 
and then taken it to a manufacturers dealer (and if he had done so I consider it to be 
likely that the manufacturers dealer would have identified that any such repairs had 
only recently been made);Specialist Motor Finance has provided photos from the dealer taken before the car 
was supplied to Mr A and it says that theres no evidence of the accident damage on 
those photos  but the damage wasnt externally visible and was only identified when 
the manufacturers dealer was doing other work on the car so I dont consider it to be 
unreasonable that Mr A didnt notice the damage before then;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car had been in an accident and poorly 
repaired before it was supplied to Mr A;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car was involved in 
an accident after it was supplied to Mr A and I consider it to be more likely than not 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him because of the 
poorly repaired accident damage and the other issues with it; and
in these circumstances I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Specialist Motor 
Finance to allow Mr A to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Specialist Motor Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mr A  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also remove 
any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on Mr As credit file.
Theres no reference in the hire purchase agreement to a deposit paid by Mr A but he did 
pay £300 to the dealer for delivery of the car and an admin charge. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Specialist Motor Finance to reimburse Mr A for that amount, with interest. 
Our investigator recommended that Specialist Motor Finance should refund to Mr A any 
monthly payments (pro-rata) for the time that he was unable to use the car due to it being in 
the garage (excluding time a hire car was paid for)  but he said that Mr A would need to 
provide evidence for this. Ive not seen any additional evidence that Mr A has provided  but 
he took the car to the manufacturers dealer in July 2021 and paid it £625.83 on the same 
date so Im not persuaded that he was unable to use the car due to it being in the garage for 
more than a day or two. Between the car being supplied to him in May 2021(when its 
mileage was 34,750) and the inspection of the car in August 2021 (when its mileage was 
37,582) hed been able to drive nearly 3,000 miles in the car. I dont consider that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Specialist Motor Finance to refund any monthly 
payments to Mr A.
Mr A paid £625.83 to the manufacturers dealer in July 2021 for work on the car. I find that 
Specialist Motor Finance should reimburse Mr A for that cost, including the full cost of the 
replacement battery, with interest.
Our investigator has described the loss of enjoyment that Mr A will have suffered because of 
the issues with the car that was supplied to him. I find that Specialist Motor Finance should 
pay him £250 to compensate him for that loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr A  both at no cost to him.
2. Pay £300 to Mr A to reimburse him for the delivery cost and admin charge that he 
paid to the dealer.3. Pay £625.83 to Mr A to reimburse him for cost of the repairs in July 2021.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr As credit file.
6. Pay £250 to Mr A to compensate him for his loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Specialist Motor Finance must give Mr A a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman