DRN-3643830
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) handling of a claim 
she made under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M says in November 2021, the building her flat is in was damaged by storm conditions.
She says there was a discussion between the residents in the building to decide what
steps need to be taken for the roof to be repaired. Mrs M says before a roofer could attend,
further heavy rainfall at the end of November resulted in a water ingress through the roof, 
and through the flat above her, into her kitchen. Mrs M reported the claim to Admiral.
Mrs M says the loss adjuster instructed by Admiral visited her property and accepted the
claim. However, Admiral later told Mrs M they didnt consider the weather conditions were
such that they constituted a storm. The claim was declined.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M complained. She said there was clear evidence from both weather
warnings and news reports that storm conditions had been experienced. And she said it was
unacceptable for her to have been misled by Admirals loss adjuster. In response to the
complaint, Admiral said the wind speeds and rainfall at the time of damage were below the
levels defined in the policy terms. And they said it was usual practice for a property to be
inspected when deciding whether to accept a claim.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our
investigators. She said while the policy terms defined what Admiral considered a storm,
when looking at the weather reports for the area where Mrs M lived and the damage
occurred, she thought storm conditions had occurred. She recommended the claim be
settled in line with the remaining policy terms, and £75 compensation be paid for the upset
and worry experienced. Admiral didnt agree.
In July 2022, I issued a provisional decision. My findings are below:
When considering whether an insurer has acted fairly in declining a claim for storm damage,
our usual approach is to consider three questions. Ive considered these and set my
thoughts out below.
The first issue for me to decide is whether I consider storm conditions occurred on or around
the date the damage is said to have happened. Admiral says storm conditions didnt occur,
and on the loss adjusters report the date of damage is noted as 1 December 2021.
Whereas Mrs M says the damage to the roof occurred between 25 and 29 November, and
the water ingress on 30 November.
At this point, its helpful to clarify how the policy defined storm damage, and Ive set this out
below:
Storm
Wind with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm
per hour
Admiral declined Mrs Ms claim because the wind speeds didnt reach 55mph. And while I
can see that the windspeeds didnt reach 55mph, Im satisfied storm conditions occurred on
or around when the damage to Mrs Ms home occurred. I say this because the weather 
reports Ive seen for 26 and 27 November, showed there were winds categorised as both 
gale force gusts and severe gale force gusts. It is documented there was a red weather 
warning in place for an area covering where Mrs M lived at the time damage occurred. So, 
while I appreciate while the wind speed didnt reach 55mph, Im satisfied, on balance, that 
storm conditions were present on or around the time the damage occurred to Mrs Ms 
property.
Ill turn now to the second and third questions, these being whether the damage claimed for
consistent with damage a storm typically causes and if the storm conditions were the main
cause of the damage.
Admirals focus in declining Mrs Ms claim has been on the wind speed. And it follows the
report from the loss adjuster is fairly silent on whether the damage to the flat roof was
consistent with the damage a storm typically causes, and if the storm conditions were the
main cause of the water ingress. It doesnt seem to me that Admiral has considered these
questions. And given that I consider there is sufficient evidence to show storm conditions
occurred at the time of the damage, it should have considered these.
I understand the flat roof was repaired shortly after the damage, so Admiral may not be able
to determine for certain if the damage to the roof and subsequent water ingress were
consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. That being said, Mrs M says water may
have travelled through the roof, through another flat and into hers. As this issue wasnt
considered by Admiral, I havent seen any evidence to show for certain the storm conditions
were the main cause of the water ingress. It is possible the water ingress could have been
caused by something else. However, neither side have offered any evidence to show
whether the water ingress was or wasnt caused by the storm.
Our investigator said the claim should be settled in line with the remaining policy terms.
However, given I consider there are still some unanswered questions about how the water 
ingress occurred, Im intending to require Admiral to consider the claim under the remaining
policy terms, rather than settle it as our investigator recommended.
However, I also consider Admiral caused Mrs M some distress and inconvenience with its
handling of her claim. It doesnt appear to have placed any weight on the evidence she
provided about the impact of the weather conditions that occurred at the time and its clear 
she found this upsetting. Im requiring it to pay her £75 in respect of this.
Admiral didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mrs M did and provided more evidence to 
support her claim. This included a copy of the invoice from the roofer who carried out the 
repairs, a video of the conditions when the damage was identified and some messages and 
news reports from the time. She also provided images showing the damage to her flat. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional information provided, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
outlined in my provisional decision. Ive reviewed the additional information Mrs M has provided. Some of the information 
recently provided was included in her original submissions.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied storm conditions occurred 
at the time Mrs Ms property was damaged. I remain of the view Admiral wrongly declined 
the claim on the basis of wind speeds alone.
Ive reconsidered the information on the file and the additional information provided by      
Mrs M. This again shows there was damage to the property, and I can see the roofer says 
the damage was caused by the storm conditions. However, what I still havent seen is any 
conclusive proof that the water ingress which caused the damage to Mrs Ms property was 
caused by the storm. And without this, I dont consider a fair decision is for me to direct 
Admiral to settle Mrs Ms claim. 
Its for this reason that I remain of the view the fairest outcome would be for Admiral to 
consider Mrs Ms claim subject to the remaining policy terms. And it should also pay Mrs M 
£75 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of her claim wrongly 
being declined. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should 
consider Mrs Ms claim subject to the remaining policy terms and pay her £75 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman