DRN-1833395
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Fair Investment Company Limited 
trading as Clifton Private Finance (Clifton) when they arranged bridging finance for him and 
his wife.  He doesnt think Cliftons service justified the fees they charged.
What happened
Mr H and his wife wanted to buy a new home.  They had a house to sell.  And theyd lost out 
on a property theyd wanted to buy because theyd not agreed a sale.  So Mr H approached 
Clifton about getting a bridging loan to avoid the same thing happening again.
The broker dealing with the matter arranged a bridging loan with a lender Ill call B.  The 
broker sent Mr and Mrs H a decision in principle.  A formal offer letter followed about four 
weeks later.  
When Mr H studied the offer, he wasnt happy that some of the costs added to the loan were 
estimated  which meant he couldnt be sure how much he would end up borrowing.  So he 
asked the broker for a revised offer to cover just the loan itself.  And he would pay the costs 
upfront.  He got the revised offer a few days later.  The bridging loan was completed several 
months after that.  
The terms of the loan meant it had to be paid back within a year of completion.  But Mr and 
Mrs H couldnt sell their house as quickly as theyd hoped to, so the loan had to be 
extended.  By this time, the broker had left Clifton.  So Mr H had to deal with B himself to 
sort this out.
Mr H wasnt happy with how Clifton had dealt with him, so he complained.  He said that 
it wasnt made clear to him that Clifton would receive commission from B  in addition 
to him paying them a brokers fee
Clifton didnt explain the processes or the fees involved
Hed paid the brokers fee twice
After the broker he was dealing with left Clifton, he wasnt given support by anyone 
else.
Clifton considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  When they replied to him, they accepted that 
they could have done more to explain various fees and terms.  And no-one had stepped in to 
support Mr and Mrs H when the broker was off work sick.  They offered Mr and Mrs H £175 
compensation for this.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Cliftons reply.  So he brought his complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered the evidence and came to the view that Clifton had missed 
chances to explain the process and fees to him - and to correct misunderstandings on his 
part.  And she said that Clifton hadnt chased up when there were delays and hadnt passed 
on Mr and Mrs Hs complaints about B to them  even though theyd said they would.  She 
thought Clifton should pay £125 compensation for this, in addition to the £175 theyd already 
offered.
But she thought it was clear that Clifton was being paid commission by B.  And Mr H hadnt 
paid the brokers fee twice.  Finally, she couldnt see that Mr H had asked Clifton for help 
when he was trying to pay off the loan.  So she couldnt see theyd done anything wrong 
there.  
Mr H didnt fully accept the investigators view.  He thought the broker hadnt done a 
percentage of their job  so he should only pay a percentage of their fees.  So Ive been 
asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  And I agree with our investigator 
that the right level of compensation is £300 - £175 already offered by Clifton and an 
additional £125.  Ill explain why.
Getting a bridging loan isnt something that an ordinary consumer would necessarily know 
much about.  And Mr H has said that it had been some years since hed borrowed money to 
buy property.  So he approached Clifton, who had the expertise he didnt.  
Most of the contact between Mr H and Clifton seems to have been by email.  Mr Hs emails 
to Clifton set out not only what he wanted to do, but also his thought processes.  And theyve 
shown me that he sometimes didnt understand the loan arrangements correctly.  For 
example, Mr H told Clifton that he wanted to pay the fees for the loan with the first months 
interest payment.  But no monthly payments were due  all interest was paid off when the 
loan was.  
I agree with our investigator that Clifton had the opportunity to correct the misunderstandings 
by Mr H  but they didnt.  And I think they should have done.  By not doing checking his 
understanding, they contributed to his confusion about the situation.
Since our investigator explained her view to him, Mr Hs accepted he didnt pay the brokers 
fee twice.  But he thinks he should be repaid a percentage of the fee because, in his view, 
the broker only did a percentage of the work.
Brokers are usually contacted by consumers to help them find and apply for a loan.  They 
tend to be involved in the transaction from that point until the loan is drawn down.  Thats 
what Ive seen in this case.  And the fees and commission he paid were payable on 
drawdown.
Mr Hs complaint isnt about this time  its about a later period, when he had to extend the 
loan.  Hed paid all the fees at this point.  And nothing Ive seen suggests that part of what he 
paid was for a service after drawdown  so I cant say he paid for a service he didnt receive.  
And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr H asked Clifton for help with this aspect, so I cant 
reasonably say they acted incorrectly.
Putting things right
As Ive said, I think our investigators view that Mr and Mrs H should be paid a total of £300 
compensation (£175 offered by Clifton before, plus £125) is the right one.  I think this 
recognises the stress and confusion Mr and Mrs H felt because Clifton didnt explain things 
to him when they had the opportunity to do so.But there are some aspects of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that I dont think Clifton needs to 
pay them compensation for because I havent upheld them.  So Ive made no award for the 
complaints that Clifton didnt tell Mr and Mrs H that B would pay Clifton commission, or for 
not supporting Mr H while he was organising paying off the loan.  And as Mr H accepts that 
he didnt pay the brokers fee twice, I dont need to make any further comment on that 
aspect.
We look at the impact a businesss failings have had on a consumer  if theyve done 
something wrong, we can award a sum of compensation for the impact of those failings.  But 
we assess the level of compensation based on the effect on the consumer, not on the fees a 
business charges for its services.  I can see why at face value linking compensation to fees 
might present an attractive proposition. But it would mean I couldnt make an award if, for 
example, a business had caused its customer significant distress but didnt charge for its 
services.
In Mr Hs case, its obvious to me that not having things explained to him did cause stress  
in addition to the usual stresses of moving home.  So Ive awarded what I consider suitable 
compensation for that stress, based on the impact Cliftons actions had on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that to settle Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, 
Fair Investment Company Limited trading as Clifton Private Finance should pay them £300, 
inclusive of any amounts it has already offered or paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman