DRN-3039583
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), wont reimburse her for the money she lost 
when she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) rental accommodation scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Miss P had been living and studying in the UK. Miss P had been in Spain for a 
couple of months but was returning to the UK to carry on with her studies and was looking 
for a place to rent. Miss P found an apartment through what she believed was a genuine 
rental accommodation host - and paid £1,623 (€1871.47) on 2 March 2021, which was for 
the deposit and one months rent. Unfortunately it was a sophisticated scam and it wasnt a 
genuine host. Miss P had been sent links and information about the property mirroring a 
legitimate website. So Miss P had paid the money to a fraudster.
Miss P only discovered it was a scam when she flew to the UK on 28 March 2021 and went 
to the property, only to find it didnt exist. Miss P tried to call the host but was unable to 
make contact. Miss P contacted Monzo to report the scam straight away to see if it could do 
anything to help. Miss P also explained to Monzo that she was suffering financially as a 
result  as the funds were for her accommodation, so she had no funds and no 
accommodation for her studies.
Monzo logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving firm (where Miss P had made the 
payment to) on the same day to see if it could recover all or any of the funds for Miss P. The 
receiving firm replied within a couple of hours advising that no funds remained in the account 
so Miss Ps payment couldnt be recovered. 
Ultimately, Monzo said it wasnt responsible for the loss. Monzo did offer Miss P £55 as 
compensation for some delays within its in-app chat function. And that it could have 
provided better customer service / support in relation to sign posting Miss P to other services 
that could assist her with advice on things like accommodation / food etc. 
Within Monzos letter, it advised Miss P that she could refer the matter to our service if she 
remained unhappy. Miss P subsequently brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Monzo ought 
to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. Or 
have a cause for concern that Miss P was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a 
scam.
Miss P disagreed with our investigators assessment and felt, as she had fallen victim to a 
scam, she should at least be refunded some of the funds and that there should be more 
support and reimbursement for consumers who have fallen victim to a scam. 
As Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint. I know this outcome will disappoint 
Miss P but ll explain my reasoning why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Miss P authorised the payment in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Miss P is responsible for the payment. That remains 
the case even though Miss P was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Monzo have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss P when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Monzo to the 
possibility Miss P was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
Im also mindful that there were enough funds in Miss Ps account and the payment wasnt 
clearing or emptying Miss Ps account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. So I dont 
think there were grounds for Monzo to be suspicious Miss P may be a victim of fraud when 
she made the payment. All things considered, I think the fact that Monzo didnt flag the 
payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also gone on to look at whether Monzo acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Monzo contacted the 
receiving firm straight after Miss P had let it know she had been the victim of a scam. But 
unfortunately, as a considerable amount of time had passed since the payment was made, 
no funds remained that could be recovered. Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss P and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return for it. But overall, while I appreciate Miss Ps been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Monzos decision not to refund her in this instance was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed Miss Ps instructions 
to make the payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And 
unfortunately, as no funds remained, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to 
help Miss P further. 
Monzos compensation payment of £55 for the delay it considered Miss P experienced when 
it communicated with her, and for its failure to sign post to other organisations that may have 
been able to help her, is also fair. And Im glad to see that Monzo recognised it could have 
provided Miss P with this information earlier than it did. As this amount has already been 
credited to Miss Ps account, I dont direct Monzo to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman