DRN-3220088
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) settlement of two claims under her travel insurance policy and 
about its service.
What happened
On 21 August 2019 Mrs D bought an annual travel insurance policy to provide cover for her 
from 27 August 2019 to 26 August 2020. The insurer was Mapfre. 
In 2020 Mrs D had been due to travel to North America on two holidays with her husband, 
who had his own travel insurance. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the two 
holidays were cancelled.
Mrs D said her husband claimed for his share of the holiday costs on his own insurance 
which were paid. Mapfre paid some of the costs Mrs D claimed for on her policy but not the 
following costs.
During the first trip Mrs D and her husband had been due to take two internal flights. The 
airline refused to refund the cost as the tickets were non-refundable so Mrs D claimed her 
share of the cost, $385.68, on her policy.
Mapfre wouldnt pay that cost as the airline had said the money used to book the ticket could 
be used to book another ticket up until 7 September 2022. Mapfre said the credit from the 
airline meant the cost wasnt irrecoverable so there was no cover for the cost under the 
policy terms. 
The second holiday included a cruise in North America. Mrs D paid the deposit of $500 for 
the cruise using a gift voucher shed purchased. She claimed her share of the costs, $250, 
on her policy.
Mapfre wouldnt pay that cost. The cruise providers terms and conditions said it would 
refund costs by the method of payment used so it offered Mrs D a voucher for the same 
amount. Mapfre said the voucher from the cruise provider meant the cost wasnt 
irrecoverable so there was no cover for the cost under the policy terms.
Mrs D complained to us as she doesnt want the flight credit and cruise voucher offered and 
wants Mapfre to pay her claim plus interest. In summary she said as she had travel 
insurance she shouldnt have to accept the credit or voucher. Also, given her husbands age 
and health he is vulnerable so she has no plans to return to North America or go on a cruise 
and wont have the opportunity to use the credit for the flights or cruise voucher. 
Mrs D is also unhappy about Mapfres service. She said Mapfre took too long to assess the 
claim and it emailed her with queries about the claim instead of calling which added to the 
delay. Also Mapfre refused to consider her cruise claim until 48 hours before the planned 
autumn 2020 departure date which Mrs D says was unreasonable as the cruise provider 
cancelled in April 2020 and the holiday would never have gone ahead.
Mapfre said when a trip was cancelled due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel 
the advice must be in place on the planned departure date for there to be cover under the 
policy. As a goodwill gesture it considered claims where the advice was in place 48 hours 
before the planned departure. But it accepted there were some delays and offered Mrs D 
£100 for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider Mrs Ds husbands medical situation as he wasnt 
insured under the policy. But he explained that we generally say vouchers, credit notes and 
offers to rebook are acceptable forms of reimbursement, unless the terms are so restrictive it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect the consumer to accept them which he didnt think was the 
case. So he said Mapfre had fairly declined to pay the above costs. He also said Mapfres 
offer of £100 compensation for Mrs Ds distress and inconvenience was reasonable. 
Mrs D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she shouldnt be forced by 
Mapfre to take credit/vouchers and travel again when her policy covered her for all 
eventualities. Also Mapfre had led her to believe it couldnt look at her claim sooner due to a  
FCA requirement, when it was its own policy that caused the delay.
Before I made my decision I asked Mrs D to provide details and evidence about how her 
husbands medical circumstances had changed between when she booked the original 
holidays and the time she was offered the flight credit and cruise voucher. I also asked 
Mrs D to send a copy of the flight credit and cruise voucher and any information she 
received from the airline and/or cruise provider that showed the full terms and conditions for 
the flight credit and cruise voucher.
Mrs D said:
Her husband was over 70 years old with a pacemaker and his insurance cost is now 
very high to go to North America, so although he can travel they didnt want to go 
there. 
She shouldnt have to explain why she didnt want to use the credit/voucher offered. 
She didnt want them and she had insurance, taken out before Covid-19 was a 
known issue, so Mapfre should pay.
It was unreasonable that she had to give details about her husbands health when it 
was the airline and cruise provider that cancelled and her husbands travel insurance 
paid for his share of the costs. 
Shed already sent us the information about the credit/voucher she had. She hadnt 
contacted the airline and cruise provider to get further information because she had 
no intention of rebooking the flights and cruise and she didnt think Mapfre wouldnt 
pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, I understand the holidays were cancelled through no fault of 
her own. But on the evidence I have I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Claims 
Mrs D says her husbands travel insurance paid his claim for his share of the costs but that 
doesnt mean Mapfre had to pay Mrs Ds costs. Each insurance policy has its own terms and 
conditions that sets out the contract for insurance cover between the insurer and the 
policyholder. No travel insurance policy provides cover for all eventualities.
Mrs Ds policy says:
Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below 
we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 5 for:
 Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or 
cutting short your trip; 
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip
You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to as a 
minimum all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the 
booking of any individual trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such 
FCO advice changes are announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.
So while a holiday being cancelled due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel to 
Mrs Ds intended destination is an insured reason, the policy is clear that Mapfre will only 
cover expenses she cant get back.
As our investigator explained, we generally say that vouchers, credit notes and offers to 
rebook are acceptable forms of reimbursement, unless the terms are so restrictive it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect the consumer to accept them.
The airlines offer of credit for another flight and cruise providers offer of a voucher for the 
full value Mrs D paid meant that in effect she had recovered the cost from the airline and 
cruise provider as she could use the credit/voucher towards another booking. Mrs D doesnt 
want to use the flight credit or cruise voucher but under the policy terms Mapfre could say 
that she had recovered those costs.
I also need to decide whether in Mrs Ds circumstances the terms of the flight credit and/or 
cruise voucher are so restrictive it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to expect 
Mrs D to accept them. I dont have any evidence from Mrs D which shows her husbands health means he would be 
unable to travel. From what Mrs Ds has said he could travel, although with higher insurance 
costs than before. I understand insurance costs for Mrs Ds husband are very likely to have 
increased for a trip to North America. But I dont think that means the airline or cruise 
providers offer would have no value to Mrs D or the costs were irrecoverable. Mrs D also 
says that some states in North America have no rules to prevent the spread of Covid-19 but 
even if thats correct I dont think that means the costs were irrecoverable.
Ive considered the information from the airline which says the flight credit needs to be used 
by 7 September 2022. Ive seen no information about whether the voucher offered by the 
cruise provider has any limitations. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the terms of the 
credit and/or voucher are so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to 
expect Mrs D to accept them. 
On the evidence I have I think Mapfre reasonably considered that Mrs D had recovered the 
flight costs through the flight credit and cruise costs through the voucher, and it fairly 
declined to cover those costs.
If Mrs D can get more evidence which she thinks supports her claim then she would need to 
send that new evidence to Mapfre and it should reconsider the claim in light of any new 
evidence.
Service
As the holiday was cancelled due to FCDO advice Mapfre wanted to consider Mrs Ds 
cancellation claims 48 hours before the planned departure date. But I cant see anything in 
the policy terms which say cancellation due to FCDO advice is only valid if the advice is in 
place in the 48 hours before the planned departure of the trip.
The relevant policy terms say a claim is valid (subject to the costs being irrecoverable) if  
You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice   I accept Mapfre cant be completely sure that a person 
cant commence travel until the day theyre due to travel. But I agree with Mrs D that the 
cruise was highly unlikely to go ahead once the cruise provider had written to her to cancel, 
so I think Mapfres delay in assessing the claim was unreasonable.
Ive seen no evidence that Mapfre said its decision not to assess the claim until 48 hours 
before the planned departure date was a requirement of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), as Mrs D suggests. It said for cancellation claims that were based on the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice, it wouldnt assess such claims until that 
timeframe.
Mapfre wrote to Mrs D about why it emailed rather than phoned her with its claim queries 
and why there was delay, but it accepts there were delays and offered her compensation.  
I think the £100 compensation it offered for her distress and inconvenience was a 
reasonable amount. 
I understand from Mapfres final response letter to Mrs D that its already paid the £100 to 
her but if thats not the case and Mrs D wants to accept the amount she should contact 
Mapfre direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman