DRN-2895340
The complaint
Mr H has complained that although he withdrew his application for a credit card, Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) hasnt removed the credit search it performed from his 
credit file. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr H made an online application for a credit card with Tesco. 
Following the online application, Mr H received a phone call from Tesco in which it said it 
needed to verify his income. Tesco requested Mr Hs payslips or bank statements. 
Mr H says he was told that Tesco would usually verify this information electronically, but its 
system wasnt working properly so it wasnt able to do that. As a result, it had asked Mr H to 
provide copies of the documents Ive mentioned above. Mr H didnt want to provide this 
information to Tesco as he only held electronic copies of it, so he told Tesco to cancel the 
application. 
Mr H complained that as he withdrew his application, and therefore didnt take out the Tesco 
credit card, Tesco should remove the credit search that it performed from his credit file.
Tesco didnt agree that it should remove the credit search. It said that the search was 
performed legitimately as Mr H applied for the card, and it said that Mr H has agreed that 
Tesco would be able to check his credit file as part of the application process. As Mr H 
wasnt happy with Tescos response, he approached our service. 
Our investigator thought about what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. He didnt think that Tesco had acted unfairly by refusing to amend Mr Hs 
credit file  nor by asking him to provide documents so that Tesco could verify his income. 
Mr H didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can see from screen shots provided by Tesco that when applying for the credit card online 
Mr H wouldve been provided with certain information. On the first page, before entering his 
details, Mr H wouldve been provided with information that included the fact that Tesco would 
need to check his credit file, and that it may need to collect other information before deciding 
whether to approve the application. Under a section headed Data we collect from you one 
of the points says Information we require to assess your application or keep your financial 
information up to date, such as your income or financial responsibilities.
Theres also a tick box at the bottom of the page  which Mr H wouldve needed to tick to 
confirm his agreement  before he could proceed to making the application. So I think Mr H 
was aware that Tesco was going to carry out a credit check  without knowing the outcome 
of the application at that stage  and he proceeded anyway. 
Tesco has explained that whilst it does use some electronic and automated systems to verify 
a customers income, in Mr Hs case, there was a discrepancy between the information Mr H 
had provided, and the information it had received from the checks it had performed. Tesco 
explained that there were inconsistencies in the income Mr H had declared on his 
application, against what its electronic verification had shown. And it says that in that 
instance, it asked Mr H to confirm the information hed entered in his application by way of 
providing proof of his income. Tesco hasnt provided me with evidence of why it requested 
evidence of Mr Hs income but in any case, Tesco is entitled to do the checks it feels are 
appropriate, so this doesnt change things. 
As a responsible lender, Id expect Tesco to perform thorough and adequate checks before 
lending to any of its customers. And whilst Tesco may sometimes be able to do these 
checks electronically, which is undoubtedly quicker and more convenient for a customer, that 
doesnt mean Tesco is obliged to do that. Even if Tesco does electronically check a 
customers income details, Id also expect it verify the information it found as a result of the 
checks it had performed if it felt that was necessary, such as in this case. 
Mr H says the credit search Tesco performed shouldnt be recorded, as its Tescos fault that 
its systems werent working, and it couldnt verify his income. But Im afraid I dont agree. I 
say this because as Ive explained, Tesco didnt ask Mr H to verify his income because its 
systems werent working  but instead as an extra verification step. But also by asking Tesco 
to remove the credit search from Mr Hs credit file Id effectively be asking for Tesco to say 
the application didnt take place, although it did. And credit records should be accurate 
reflections of lending applications, whether successful or otherwise. So Tesco doesnt need 
to amend Mr Hs credit file. 
I do understand Mr H mayve been told Tescos income verification systems werent working, 
but in fact Im satisfied that Tesco was fulfilling its obligation to perform adequate checks. It 
was Mr Hs decision not to provide the information that Tesco had asked for, but instead to 
withdraw his application. So as Tesco is entitled to ask for the information it did, and as Mr H 
chose not to provide it, I havent found that Tesco is at fault here.
I want to reassure Mr H that Ive thought carefully about his complaint. But having done so, I 
havent found that Tesco has treated him unfairly by recording a credit search on his credit 
file after he withdrew his application for a credit card. So I dont uphold this complaint, and 
Tesco doesnt need to put anything right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman