DRN-3430731
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its 
account, recalled its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and passed the outstanding debt to a 
collection agency.
What happened
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
S was incorporated in January 2020. The company successfully applied to Barclays for a 
£50,000 BBL in June 2020 and the funds were drawn down immediately.
In late May 2021, Barclays learned that a notice for compulsory strike-off and dissolution of 
the company had been published. Barclays immediately wrote to S to notify it that the bank 
was aware of the notice. 
Two weeks later, in early June 2021, Barclays placed restrictions on the account facilities 
and wrote again to S, advising the company to take appropriate action. There was no reply 
and in early July 2021 the bank issued formal demands for repayment of the debt and closed 
Ss accounts. Later in the same month, Ss debt was passed to a debt collection agency for 
recovery. 
At the end of July 2021, S submitted its overdue confirmation statement to Companies 
House and the compulsory strike-off action was discontinued.
S also complained to Barclays at the end of July 2021, saying the failure to keep things up to 
date with Companies House had been the fault of its accountant, and the directors were out 
of the country when the bank sent its letters. The bank didnt change its position. S then 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong in closing Ss account, defaulting the BBL or using a debt collection 
agency to help recover the debt. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
The terms of the BBL state that the beginning of any dissolution process will 
constitute an event of default. In addition, Barclays general business customer 
terms state that any account or service may be withdrawn should any steps be 
taken towards winding up a company.
Barclays had become aware of a proposal to strike off the company. In the 
circumstances, the investigator thought it reasonable for the bank to close the 
account and default the BBL.
Barclays didnt immediately default the loan. It sent two letters to S requesting 
contact and waited a further three weeks before defaulting the BBL. Barclays didnt 
receive a response to its letters. Neither director was in the country at the time, but 
this wasnt Barclays fault. Barclays wasnt required to contact the company by 
email.
The original proposal to strike off the company was discontinued after S submitted 
its overdue confirmation statement. But later in the year S received a new notice of 
strike-off action and its annual accounts are overdue.
Barclays has not sold the BBL debt. The collection agency was acting to recover 
the funds on the banks behalf. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for 
the bank to use an agency for this purpose.
S didnt agree with the investigators findings. On behalf of the company, one of its directors 
said he couldnt understand how the bank has the right to close the account and recall the 
BBL without sending an email or mentioning it in other emails reminding the company about 
its repayment instalments. He also said the company has since been unable to compile its 
annual accounts because its Barclays accounts are closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell S that Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the BBL state that there is an event of default if: 
any corporate action, legal proceedings or other procedure or step is taken in 
relation to: (i) the suspension of payments, a moratorium of any indebtedness, 
winding-up, dissolution, administration or reorganisation of the Borrower 
(Condition 13.1 (f)). 
Barclays terms and conditions for business customers state that the bank may end the 
customer agreement immediately if: 
you or a third party have taken any steps to wind up your business, put it into 
administration or any other insolvency process (Condition 9.6). 
Im therefore satisfied that Barclays was entitled, on hearing of the notice for compulsory 
strike-off and dissolution, to treat the BBL as in default and to close Ss accounts. 
I think its reasonable for a bank to regard the initiation of action to dissolve a company as a 
substantial risk to the recovery of its lending, so I dont think its unfair to include it as an 
event of default in the loan terms and conditions. 
Ss directors say their accountant is responsible for the events leading to the notice of strike-
off, but I dont think it makes any difference who was at fault among those acting on behalf of 
the company. Theres no doubt that the strike-off notice was published, and it wasnt the 
result of any action or omission by the bank.
As the investigator pointed out, the bank didnt take immediate action to require repayment 
of the BBL or to close Ss accounts, even though it was entitled to do so. It wrote to the 
company twice, then only after five weeks and six weeks respectively did it demand repayment and close the accounts. In the light of the published notice for compulsory strike-
off and dissolution, I dont think the banks actions were unreasonable. 
S appears to have made no arrangements for handling its post while its directors were 
abroad. The company was free to make that choice, but I cant reasonably hold the bank 
responsible for S not seeing its letters as a result. There was no legal or regulatory 
requirement for the bank to communicate with the company by email as well as by letter, and 
Im not aware of any agreement between the parties to that effect. Nor am I aware of any 
notification given to the bank by S that it would be unable to receive post for a period. For 
these reasons, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to communicate with S by letter alone.
Ss director has said that the bank didnt mention the notice of strike-off in its email 
reminders of the BBL repayments which were due to commence. But I dont think those 
emails caused S to act any differently from how it would have acted had the emails not been 
sent. In other words, I dont believe that Ss directors, while they were abroad, were anxious 
about the possibility of action to strike off the company, then took comfort from the banks 
reminder emails and as a result decided not to check on the companys affairs. The news 
about the strike-off action seems to have come as a complete surprise to them. So I cant 
see that it would have made any difference if Barclays hadnt sent the reminder emails. In 
any event I dont think the bank is required to refer to all matters in the customer relationship 
in every communication  so I dont think it was unfair that the repayment reminders were 
sent without mentioning the strike-off action. Barclays wrote separately to the company 
about that matter and I believe it acted reasonably in doing so.
I note that action for compulsory strike-off and dissolution was initiated again in December 
2021 and again in August 2022. S has suggested that the closure of its Barclays accounts 
has prevented it from filing its company accounts, which may have been one reason for the 
recent strike-off action. But the companys overdue accounts are those for the accounting 
period up to January 2021, which was six months before the closure of the Barclays 
accounts, and I believe that S would reasonably have records of the balance of its bank and 
loan accounts at that time. Ive already concluded that Barclays acted reasonably when it 
closed the bank and loan accounts in July 2021, but in any event Im not persuaded that the 
closure of the Barclays accounts was the cause of Ss late filings with Companies House 
which led to further strike-off action. 
The loan is still with Barclays and hasnt been sold to another lender. I agree with the 
investigator that it wasnt unfair of the bank to use a collection agency to recover the debt 
from S. 
For all the above reasons, I find that Barclays didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it 
closed Ss accounts, required repayment of the BBL and passed the recovery of the 
outstanding debt to a collection agency.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman