DRN-2342770
The complaint
Ms J complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Green Flag handled a 
claim made against her roadside assistance policy. 
Reference to UKI include their agents. 
What happened
Ms Js car unfortunately broke down in January 2020. Her car was left immobile in a 
disabled parking bay, and she called UKI for assistance at around 19:20pm. UKI gave Ms J 
an estimated time of arrival of 20:30pm and said she had time to get a drink whilst she 
waited for the engineer to arrive. 
UKI said the engineer arrived roughly 45 minutes ahead of schedule. They said the engineer 
tried to contacted Ms J by phone to say she needed to return to her car. But they couldnt 
reach her. The engineer then left roughly 20 minutes later. 
Ms J contacted UKI a few hours later to say nobody had arrived. UKI told Ms J the engineer 
did attend but left as she wasnt with her car. Ms J disputed this  she said she could always 
see her car which was parked down a one-way street and didnt see an engineer arrive. 
Ms J was frustrated with the recovery company UKI decided to send to assist her. She said 
shed previously experienced problems with this company and had asked UKI to send 
someone from a different company, which didnt happen. 
UKI said they could send a different engineer at a cost of £150 to Ms J as this would be 
considered a new call-out. Different options were discussed but Ms J said she needed to get 
home, so she took a taxi. Though she was worried about leaving her car unattended 
because of a disturbance nearby where emergency services were called.
Ms J returned to her car by taxi and public transport over the next few days. As her car was 
parked in a disabled bay with a time limit, she received parking tickets. Ms J wasnt happy 
UKI didnt contact her to arrange assistance. UKI said they tried to make contact but couldnt 
get in touch with Ms J. They also said they offered her recovery, but this was rejected. 
When they spoke, UKI said they could either arrange for Ms Js car to be recovered or 
contribute £150 towards the costs of her arranging for a local garage to do it. Ms J said she 
was told by police that her car would be removed and stored in a compound with a daily 
charge unless moved.  
Ms J returned the following day and her car was recovered by a local garage. The garage 
replaced the tyre and battery.  
Ms J raised a complaint with UKI. She didnt think an engineer attended on the day she 
broke down, resulting in her incurring costs such as parking tickets and taxi fares. Ms J also 
felt UKI should refund the premiums she paid due to the poor service she experienced. 
UKI upheld Ms Js complaint. They said their engineer did attend on the day Ms J broke 
down and had evidence of this. But as theyd told Ms J to use taxis, they agreed to 
reimburse these costs upon receiving receipts. They didnt agree to refund Ms Js premiums 
and referred to the policy terms. They also didnt agree to pay the parking tickets Ms J 
received because their engineer did attend to assist but couldnt. 
Ms J said shed provided them with evidence of the costs she incurred by recorded delivery 
but wasnt reimbursed. UKI phoned and wrote to Ms J in May and June 2020 to try and 
locate the information she sent but were unable to locate it. As she remained unhappy, she 
brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked into Ms Js case. She felt UKI provided enough to show the 
engineer did attend on the day Ms J called to report the breakdown. She didnt think UKI 
were responsible for paying the parking tickets because they had attended to recover her 
car, but the engineer was unable to reach her. 
She considered whether Ms J was due a refund of premiums but didnt think she was under 
the policy terms as shed made a claim in January 2020. So, she didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ms J didnt agree. She said shed sent all the information UKI needed to reimburse her in 
April 2020, but they still hadnt done it. She also said shed given them the postal reference 
on two occasions.   
Ms J sent us a copy of the evidence of costs and our investigator put this to UKI. Following 
that, UKI refunded Ms J the costs she incurred for taxis and recovery of her car. They didnt 
agree to reimburse the amount Ms J paid for replacement parts as this wasnt something the 
policy entitled her to. They also said the parking tickets werent their responsibility. Ms J told 
us she received a County Court Judgement and a repossession order is now in place 
against her due to the parking tickets. 
Ms J remained unhappy with the outcome recommended by our investigator and asked for 
an ombudsman to decide. So its now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how important this matter is to Ms J and I appreciate that what happened 
when she broke down wouldve been very worrying and distressing for her. But having 
considered everything, on balance I think UKI has done enough here to put matters right. Ill 
explain why.  
Whether UKI attended the breakdown on the day Ms J reported it 
Theres a dispute present here as to whether the engineer attended on 25 January 2020. I 
can see UKI gave Ms J an estimated time of arrival and said she had time to get a drink 
before the engineer attended. Despite going to get a drink, Ms J said she always had her car 
in view. 
The engineer arrived roughly 45 minutes earlier than estimated. Ive seen from the claim 
notes that the engineer tried to contact Ms J by phone but couldnt reach her. The engineer 
took photos of Ms Js car and left approximately 20 minutes later. From the information available to me, Im satisfied an engineer did attend, but was unable to 
reach Ms J to assist her. I cant say it was unreasonable for the engineer to arrive ahead of 
time. In fact, an estimated time of arrival is just an indication of when an engineer will most 
likely arrive. And in any event, I can see the engineer tried to contact Ms J once theyd 
arrived. So, although Ms J said she could always see her car, Im more persuaded by the 
claim records that the engineer attended. 
The costs incurred by Ms J that she thinks UKI is responsible for
Ms J says UKI should be responsible for the following costs: 
The taxi fares to travel to and from her car; 
The amount she paid to recover her car; 
The amount she paid her local garage to replace the tyre and battery;  
The parking tickets; and
A full refund of the premiums paid. 
UKI has refunded the taxi fares and recovery costs Ms J incurred, and so theres no need for 
me to consider these points. Ms J also sent an invoice for a replacement tyre and battery. 
UKI considered this but said thats not something they would pay under the policy. 
For clarity, the policy terms say under section E2 of whats not covered that Charges for any 
work done away from the roadside and the cost of replacement parts and materials arent 
covered. Having considered this, I think its reasonable for UKI to not meet these costs.
What remains in dispute here is the parking tickets Ms J was issued whilst her car was 
immobile and parked in a disabled bay. Ive given a lot of thought to whether UKI should be 
responsible for paying the parking tickets. And whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms J, I dont 
think UKI is responsible. 
I say this because Im satisfied an engineer attended to assist Ms J on 25 January 2020. Ive 
gone onto look at what followed after Ms J returned home when the engineer left. I can see 
from the claim notes UKI offered further assistance via another engineer and told Ms J they 
wouldnt be held responsible for the car being left where it was.  
Its clear to me the car was left in the disabled bay not by choice, but due to the fact it was 
immobile. I dont blame Ms J for that as it was outside her control. But to give some balance 
here, neither could I fairly hold UKI responsible for these tickets either given Im satisfied 
their engineer attended on the night Ms J needed assistance, and further recovery was 
offered. 
I absolutely accept that had Ms J seen the engineer arriving she wouldve flagged them 
down. And its very unfortunate that the engineer was unable to assist, because they 
wouldve most likely been able to remove Ms Js car and prevent the parking tickets. 
Ms J said shes now received a County Court Judgement and a repossession order is now in 
place against her. I appreciate this wouldve been very worrying and distressing for her to 
receive this. Ms J said UKI told her that they would support her in verifying that her car 
wasnt illegally parked and was immobile due to the breakdown. I cant hold UKI responsible 
for these costs for the reasons set out above, and I think their offer to confirm the 
circumstances to try and help Ms J is fair. 
Ms J said shed provided UKI with a copy of all the information they needed to refund her 
costs. I dont dispute that Ms J provided this to UKI, she also provided our service with a 
copy. Ms J said she also gave UKI the postal reference, but they said they couldnt locate 
the documents. I appreciate this wouldve been very frustrating for Ms J. But Im satisfied its been put right 
now by the refund UKI issued for the costs I think they shouldve refunded. 
Cancelling the policy and a refund of premiums 
Ms J asked UKI to refund her premiums due to the poor service she felt she received. UKI 
said they could cancel her policy, but didnt agree to refund the premiums, and referred to 
the policy terms. These say: 
CANCELLING YOUR POLICY 
YOUR RIGHT TO CANCEL 
If youve just bought the policy of just renewed and you cancel within 14 days of the 
policy starting or of you receiving the documents, whichever is later (this is the 
cooling off period) well give you a full refund, as long as you havent made a claim. 
If you cancel after that, as long as you havent made a claim since that cover-year 
started, well give you a refund based on how long your policy had left. 
If its outside the cooling off period and you have called us out, you can still cancel 
your policy but you wont get anything back.
This means Ms J wouldnt be entitled to a refund of premiums because she made a claim in 
January 2020. And, as above, Im satisfied UKI did send an engineer who attended. So, I 
dont agree that Ms J is due a refund of premiums. 
Summary 
Overall, I accept that this has been an extremely distressing time for Ms J, particularly given 
the circumstances shes told us shes experiencing with receiving a County Court Judgement 
and a repossession order. But, for the reasons set out above, on balance I think UKI has 
done enough here to put matters right. So, I dont require UKI to do anything further. 
I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Ms J. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman