DRN-3244242
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had covered approximately 
29,000 miles.
In December 2020 Mr M had the car serviced and MOTd. There were no advisories.
In April 2021 some warning lights illuminated on the display. Mr M took the car to the garage, 
who diagnosed several faults.
Due to the ongoing issues and a concern that the warranty was going to expire, Mr M sold 
the car. He complained to VWFS seeking compensation for the costs hed incurred dealing 
with the issues.
In response, VWFS said the coolant shut off valve, the bush trailing arm and the rear coil 
springs had been replaced under warranty. It said the brakes were a wear and tear item 
which werent covered under the warranty. VWFs said it wasnt upholding Mr Ms complaint 
because there was no evidence that the faults were present at the point of supply.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that the issues with the 
car were due to wear and tear and that the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the brakes had been worn when the car was supplied. He was 
also unhappy about how VWFS had handled his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car  such as that 
supplied to Mr M  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than 
a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there 
was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault which developed due to wear and 
tear.
Theres no dispute that the car had developed some faults by April 2021. I can see that there 
were issues affecting the coolant valve, the suspension and the brakes.
Ive thought about whether these faults meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied. In doing so, Ive had regard to the time and mileage which has elapsed since 
the point of supply and the time when the faults were diagnosed. I can see that Mr M had 
been driving the car for around 11 months and had covered around 6000 miles. On balance, 
I think that if the faults had been present at the point of supply, they would have presented 
themselves much sooner. So, it seems more likely that the faults were due to general wear 
and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months, its 
up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. Ive taken 
everything that Mr M has said and provided into account, but having reviewed this, theres 
no evidence to support a finding that the fault was present at the point of supply. Ive taken 
account of the fact that the car was MOTd and serviced in December 2020 and there is 
nothing to suggest that there was anything wrong with the car at that time. This suggests to 
me that the faults developed after this time, which means the faults are likely to be due to 
general wear and tear.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy that the brakes were worn and needed replacement. Mr 
M has said that the brakes were 60% worn at the point of supply and hes provided some 
evidence to support this. Even if the brakes were 60% worn at the point of supply, I dont 
think this renders the car of unsatisfactory quality. Its reasonable to expect a second hand 
car to have some wear and tear, and this would include wear and tear to serviceable parts 
like brake pads and discs.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy about the length of time it took for his complaint to be 
dealt with, and feels that he had no choice but to sell the car because he was worried that 
things wouldnt be resolved before the warranty ran out. The regulations allow VWFS up to 8 
weeks to investigate a complaint, so Im unable to say that VWFS did anything wrong when 
it advised Mr M of his timescale. Its clear that the other issues  including the warranty and 
the calls to the dealership  have caused Mr M a large amount of frustration, but these arent 
things that Im able to hold VWFS as the finance provider responsible for. 
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Because of this I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman