DRN-4278583
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) holding 
her liable for a debt which she says was the result of ID theft.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an unsecured personal loan of £5,000, taken out in Miss Ss name 
in mid-2022.
Miss S has explained that her friend of some years offered to lend her money to help her 
start investing in cryptocurrency. He helped her to set up a crypto account, gathering her 
personal details as well as her account number and sort code in the process. He then used 
those details to apply for this loan with Madison, and told Miss S that the credit to her 
account was from one of the various businesses he owned. He convinced Miss S to forward 
the money on for his investment scheme, but ended up just taking all the money himself.
The friend then took out further loans in the same manner, continuing to tell Miss S these 
were from his own businesses. In the end, Miss S realised shed been scammed, and the 
friend began threatening her.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partially upheld the complaint. They 
found that Miss S had not taken out the loan herself, but that shed also not questioned 
things sufficiently, particularly as a later loan was paid into her account with a reference 
which made it clear it was a loan. So they thought she should be liable for the loans 
principal, but not its interest, fees, or credit file implications.
Madison agreed to remove the interest and charges, and to remove the entry from Miss Ss 
credit file. Miss S asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss S and Madison a provisional decision on 3 July 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Miss S should be held liable for this particular 
loan  Ill explain why.
Both sides appear to accept that Miss S was scammed, and that the loan was taken out by 
someone else without her consent. This is also well supported by the evidence at hand. For 
example:
The loan was applied for using a phone number which does not match to Miss S, but 
did match up to entries for a man on the national fraud database;
The email address provided was not Miss Ss actual verified one, and was only set 
up on the same day as the application;
The IP address used does not match up to Miss S, was based in another city on the 
other side of the country from where she lived, and also flagged up on the national 
fraud database;
While other personal details were correct, there is a clear point of compromise for 
them as the scammer asked Miss S for them to set up the crypto account;
Miss Ss testimony has been consistent and credible and is backed up by messages 
she saved with the scammer;
These messages support that she thought this was a crypto investment scheme 
being funded from her friends businesses, that the friend took the money, and that 
the friend went on to pressure and threaten her;
The loan funds were sent on, along with some of Miss Ss own money, and Miss S 
does not appear to have benefitted at all;
Other loans were taken out shortly afterwards using matching details, and have been 
confirmed as being fraudulent;
Another business carried out an identity check call. Having listened to the recording, 
the person they spoke to was clearly not Miss S, and sounds more like a man doing 
an impression of a woman.
Broadly speaking, Madison cant fairly hold Miss S to the terms of a loan agreement she 
didnt actually agree to. Nor should it fairly report an account on her credit file that she didnt 
actually take out. And Im reasonably satisfied that Miss S didnt agree to this loan. So it 
follows that Madison shouldnt hold her liable for any interest or fees, nor report it on her 
credit file. Im grateful to Madison for already agreeing to this.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Miss S should be held liable for the principal of this 
loan. I understand our investigators argument that she could  and should  have done 
more to verify what was really going on.
However, our investigators main argument relied on the fact that a later loan was paid into 
Miss Ss bank account with a reference that made it clear it was a loan. And as far as I can 
see, that happened after Miss S had received and spent the Madison loan. So it wasnt 
relevant at the time  it hadnt happened yet.
Meanwhile, the payment from Madison did not have a reference which made it clear or 
obvious it was a loan; Miss S had not received any correspondence from Madison herself as 
the contact details provided at application were fake; she hadnt received any other 
indication this was a loan; her friend of some time had pressured her and spun a consistent 
and somewhat believable story that this was money from his own business; and this was 
only the very first loan Miss S had been paid  at the time, no others had been paid to her 
yet, so she didnt yet have as strong of a basis on which to be concerned. As far as I can 
see, Miss S was tricked into sending on the money in good faith, and she didnt benefit from 
it herself at all.I also need to consider whether Madison did enough to satisfy themselves that this was a 
genuine loan application. I do appreciate why they felt they mightve had enough to grant this 
loan. But while they had been given some of Miss Ss genuine details and done a credit file 
check, they didnt have a huge amount to rely on to positively confirm who was really 
applying, and I cant see that they carried out any more comprehensive identity or security 
checks. On the other hand, the email address used had only been set up that same day and 
couldnt be confirmed as genuine. The phone number provided did not match up to Miss S 
and instead linked to a man on the national fraud database. And the IP address used was 
based on the other side of the country from where Miss S lived, and also flagged up on the 
fraud database. And Madison dont appear to have had a prior relationship with Miss S, nor 
any prior contact with her that they could confirm as being genuine. So it looks like Madison 
had a reasonable basis on which to be concerned that this was not a genuine application.
In summary:
Im satisfied that Miss S did not apply for this loan
I cant see that she benefitted from it  indeed, it looks like she lost some of her own 
money in addition to all the loan funds
It looks like Miss S was tricked into forwarding the money on innocently, and she 
didnt yet have a clear basis on which to know this was a loan in her name; and-
It looks like Madison had reasonable grounds to doubt the authenticity of this loan 
application. Im not satisfied that Madison had enough to conclude that this was a 
genuine application.
On that basis, I dont currently think that Madison can fairly hold Miss S liable for this loan.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
31 July 2023. Miss S agreed with the provisional decision. Madison didnt add anything 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Madison CF UK Limited to take this account out of Miss Ss name, make sure shes 
not pursued for it any further, and disassociate her from it  including removing any record of 
it from her credit file.My final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint, and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
If Miss S accepts the final decision, Madison CF UK Limited must carry out the redress 
within 28 days of the date our service notifies them of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman