DRN-4204984
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with Very, who is a trading name of Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited. 
Miss W is complaining that Very lent to her irresponsibly. Miss W has complained with the 
help of a claims management company.
For the purposes of this decision, I have referred to Shop Direct throughout as it is 
accountable for the actions of Very.
What happened
Miss W applied for a Very home shopping account with Shop Direct in September 2018 and 
was given a £600 credit limit. Her credit limit was increased to £1,000 in January 2019, to 
£2,000 in April 2019 and then to £3,000 in September 2019.
Miss W complained to Shop Direct in August 2022. She said that Shop Direct shouldnt have 
given/increased the credit limits on her catalogue account because she couldnt afford to 
repay the amounts within a reasonable timescale. She explained that she was struggling 
financially and that she had a poor credit record at the time. 
Shop Direct says it did check whether the catalogue account and credit limit increases were 
affordable, and based on those checks, Miss Ws credit file and repayment history 
suggested she wasnt in financial difficulty and could afford the repayments. Unhappy with 
Shop Directs response, Miss W referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She concluded that with reasonable and 
proportionate checks, it was fair for Shop Direct to open a home shopping account for 
Miss W in September 2018. But he thought Shop Direct should not have increased the credit 
limit in January, April and September 2019. He also thought Shop Direct should refund the 
interest charged to Miss Ws account on any balances over the opening credit limit of £600 
from January 2019.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ws complaint. Having 
thought about all of that, I have reached a different conclusion to that reached by our 
investigator.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss W 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss W would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what 
reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be 
reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high 
sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the 
longer term.
Shop Direct granted Miss W a modest credit limit at £600, which it later increased in 
increments to £3,000.  Miss W told Shop Direct she earnt £15,500 a year when she applied 
for the account, which it validated electronically. Shop Direct did complete some checks to 
see if the credit limits were affordable. It explained that part of its checks involved reviewing 
the applicants credit file and agreed Miss Ws credit limit based on the information it got 
from the credit reference agency. 
By the time Shop Direct started to increase Miss Ws credit limit, it also had the benefit of 
Miss Ws repayment history before deciding to offer an increased limit. On all three 
occasions, it showed she had been maintaining her account well, paying significantly more 
than the minimum contractual repayments. And as there were no obvious signs of recent 
financial distress, I think Shop Direct acted fairly before agreeing to and increasing Miss Ws 
credit limit.   
The Investigator reviewed Shop Directs record of Miss Ws credit file and found a defaulted 
account showing in December 2018. He placed significant weight on this information before 
concluding Shop Direct shouldnt have increased Miss Ws account credit limit. I note the 
defaulted account didnt show on credit file in November 2018, nor in January 2019 by the 
time Shop Direct increased the credit limit. And it didnt show again thereafter. 
I also find the possibility that Miss W was experiencing difficulties repaying a credit 
agreement (to the extent it was defaulted) at odds with her recent pattern of repayments to 
Shop Direct which show:  
Shop Direct suggested a minimum payment of £8.47 on her September 2018 statement  Miss W 
paid £40.33.
Shop Direct suggested a minimum payment of £10.62 on her October 2018 statement  Miss W 
paid £148.63.
Shop Direct suggested a minimum payment of £5.90 on her November 2018 statement  Miss W 
paid £98.11.
Shop Direct suggested a minimum payment of £14.08 on her December 2018 statement  Miss 
W paid £120.
Shop Direct suggested a minimum payment of £5.07 on her second December 2018 statement  
Miss W paid £77.04.
Shop Direct suggests the appearance and disappearance of the default related to a payment 
dispute. I dont need to make a finding on whether it was or not a disputed transaction. I say 
this because I find Miss Ws repayment history a more reliable sign of her ability to sustain 
larger repayments towards the account after the limit increases. I dont think this information 
ought reasonably to have prevented Shop Direct from lending to Miss W or prompted further 
checks, given the size of the default balance involved  £106  versus the size of the 
repayments she was making.
Shop Direct points to a downturn in Miss Ws account management from October 2022, after 
she had been in contact to explain a change in circumstances due to her former partner 
stopping maintenance payments. It considers this the reason behind her financial difficulties, 
which occurred long after the final increase to her credit limit. That might be so, but I ought to 
remind Shop Direct about its obligations to treat Miss W fairly and offer due forbearance 
should she continue to experience financial difficulties. 
I am sorry to hear about Miss Ws current financial difficulties. My findings are in no way 
meant to diminish her circumstances, but my role is to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to resolve this complaint and Im unable to say Shop Direct was wrong to lend to Miss W at the times they did so based on the submissions and 
evidence available to me.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 22 June 2023. Miss W has confirmed receiving the decision but 
did make any further representation. 
Shop Direct has also replied. It reminded me of its earlier submission about Miss W taking 
out a £13,000 loan in September 2020, which significantly increased her overall 
indebtedness. At this point it stopped further increases to Miss Ws credit limit and noted that 
she did continue to manage her account well until October 2022, when Miss W informed 
Shop Direct of a change in circumstances affecting her income and which was causing her 
financial difficulty. Shop Direct responded by applying a 3 month freeze to her account and 
this suspended interest and charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again. Neither Miss W nor Shop Direct have provided further 
evidence or new information for me to consider  Shop Direct has reminded of more recent 
events affecting Miss W and and her account, which I also considered when reaching my 
provisional findings. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman