DRN-2374640
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough to have his car repaired 
when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
When Mr D made a claim, esure got an estimate for repairing his car from one of its 
approved garages. The estimate was for £1,930 (before VAT and the policy excess were 
deducted). Mr D asked for a cash payment in lieu of repairs (a CIL settlement) which would 
have meant both those sums were deducted. esures engineer agreed to a CIL payment but 
offered Mr D £1,000 - later raised to £1,100. Mr D thought that was unfair. He said he should 
have been offered the sum esure had told him it would have cost it to repair the car. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint and agreed with him that esure should 
have offered a CIL payment equivalent to the sum it would have paid for the repairs. He 
didnt think it mattered that Mr D may have been able to get the car repaired for less.
esure said a CIL payment was given at its discretion, and that these payments are made 
after deducting VAT from the repair estimate. It said it had incurred costs with the garage 
and that the CIL offer reflected the cheaper repair costs of a non-approved garage. The 
investigator said esure hadnt shown that Mr D could get the car repaired for less  and that 
we thought it didnt matter what a consumer planned to do with the funds anyway.
esure said the damage was relatively minor and easy to rectify, as a second-hand door 
could be fitted for a fraction of its garages estimate. It provided a link to the cost of a 
second-hand door on sale for £90, plus a modified repair estimate. In the new document, a 
replacement door was priced at £90. esure said even though painting and other parts on the 
estimate may not be required if a door of the same colour was fitted, it had left them on the 
new estimate anyway. The total cost of repair (net of VAT) was £535.33.
  
The investigator said consumers sometimes find it costs more than an approved repairer has 
estimated for their cars to be repaired, but we wouldnt ask an insurer to pay more than that. 
He accepted that a CIL payment wasnt a right under the policy, but he said that as esure 
had agreed to offer one, it should do so fairly. He agreed that VAT as well as Mr Ds policy 
excess should be deducted from the CIL payment. esure asked for a review of the complaint 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked esure for details of the approved garages first estimate, as the amended one it 
provided was so low by comparison. It wasnt able to provide any further details, so it isnt 
entirely clear what caused the huge difference in the prices quoted. esure has referred to 
discounts being removed, and the second estimate included the cost of a second-hand door.
   
Our settled approach is that if an insurer agrees to offer a CIL payment, it doesnt matter 
what the consumer decides to do with it. Theres no obligation to have the car repaired at all. 
And if the car is repaired, its up to the consumer how little or how much they spend on that. 
In this case, taking off 20% VAT from the garages first estimate (£1,930 - £386) then 
removing Mr Ds policy excess of £250, would have resulted in a CIL payment of £1,294. But 
esure only offered Mr D £1,100, on the basis that it thought he would pay less than that sum 
for repairs. It has provided evidence of its basis for reaching that conclusion. 
 
In my opinion, Mr D didnt have the right to insist on a CIL payment and esure didnt have to 
agree to make one. But as it did, I think it should pay Mr D the sum it had told him it was 
willing to pay for repairs, minus the VAT and the policy excess. I dont think it matters that he 
could probably have the car repaired for less than that sum. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable way to settle the complaint.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr D a further £194, so the total CIL payment is £1,294. It should add interest to the extra 
sum at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the original payment to the date of 
settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman