DRN-2193317
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Automotive Compliance Ltd. He isnt happy as he thought it mis-
sold him a Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) policy. 
What happened
Mr R has complained that he was mis-sold a GAP insurance policy. He said he had made it 
clear to Automotive Compliance that he wasnt the owner of the vehicle when he took out the 
policy. And so he believes the policy was mis-sold and he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Automotive Compliance had made it very clear to Mr R how the policy worked and that he 
would have to own the vehicle in order to take out a policy. It made this clear to him over a 
few months and during a number of telephone calls. So he thought Mr R shouldve known 
how the policy worked and he should have read the policy documentation that made this 
very clear.
As Mr R didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. But the key issue to decide is whether Mr R ought to have reasonably known how the 
policy worked and that he needed to own the vehicle in order to take out the policy. 
I can understand why Mr R has complained and why he believed the policy was mis-sold. I 
say this as I agree that the call taker couldve been clearer when he actually took the policy 
out. But I think Automotive Compliance was very clear, in various calls, about how the policy 
worked. If Mr R had any doubt about how the policy worked I think he shouldve clarified this 
and checked his policy documentation when it came through. Indeed, I note that Mr R asked 
for the policy documentation and key facts before he took the policy out during one of the 
many calls he had with Automotive Compliance before he took the policy out. And given this, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Automotive Compliance responsible for 
Mr Rs choice.  
I know Mr R feels that ultimately the policy was mis-sold to him, but I dont understand why 
he took out the policy or kept asking Automotive Compliance about a GAP policy. I say this 
as Automotive Compliance had been abundantly clear about how the policy worked and that 
it wasnt suitable for his needs over a multitude of telephone calls. And given this I think 
there was a greater responsibility for Mr R to check the policy documentation and that the 
policy met his requirements. 
Our investigator has provided Mr R with a full breakdown and copies of the calls he had with 
Automotive Compliance. And Ive asked Mr R direct why he ignored all the advice he was 
given about the policy and the fact that it wasnt suitable for him. 
Mr R has said the calls show how unsure he was, but I have to be fair to both sides when 
considering complaints. And although I accept that Automotive Compliance couldve been 
clearer when Mr R took out the policy I dont think it would be fair to ignore the fact that it 
clearly told Mr R he had to have an insurable interest in the car to take out the policy during 
his earlier attempts to gain a GAP policy. It seems to me that Mr R chose to act and get a 
policy as soon as Automotive Compliance wasnt as clear as it shouldve been in one of its 
calls. But it was very clear in all the other calls that the policy wasnt suitable for him. And so 
I wouldve expected Mr R to check this and his policy documentation which was also very 
clear.
So, although I can understand why Mr R has raised his complaint I cant understand why he 
went ahead with the policy. I say this as Im satisfied Automotive Compliance made it 
abundantly clear how the policy worked and that it wasnt suitable for him. As such, I cant 
say that Automotive Compliance has acted unfairly.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman