DRN-2478782
The complaint
 Mr D is represented. He says an Appointed Representative (AR) of The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited (TTPL) gave him unsuitable advice in 2016 to switch his Personal 
Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and that it is also responsible for 
the SIPPs unsuitable underlying investment in the Organic Defensive Portfolio (ODP).
What happened
 One of our investigators looked into the complaint. His main findings were as follows:
The ARs advice was given to Mr D in July 2016. At the time, he was self employed 
earning around £7,000 annually; he had net monthly disposable income of around 
£250; he was 10 years from retirement and his objective was to achieve an annual 
retirement income of £10,000; he had a moderately cautious attitude to risk (ATR); 
he had £5,000 in a Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA); and he contributed £200 
monthly into his PP, which had a value of almost £40,000.
The annual charges for the PP were just over £500; and the underlying investments 
within it had a performance record of 8.7% returns over the previous year, 26% over 
the previous three years and 43.1% over the previous five years. In contrast, the 
annual fees for the proposed SIPP and ODP were almost £800 and the ODP had no 
available historical performance information.
The switch happened in September 2016 when a total of £49,092.72 was transferred 
from the PP to the SIPP; and in November 2016 Mr D began monthly contributions of 
£200 into the SIPP.
The PP appears to have been good for Mr D. It had modest costs and whilst its 
underlying investments might have been slightly above his ATR that was balanced by 
the cost averaging mitigation effects of his contributions. With the performance track 
record of the PPs underlying funds, the PP matched the pursuit of Mr Ds retirement 
objective. In contrast, the recommended SIPP compared less favourable in terms of 
costs and potential for performance  and with regards to the latter, there is a lack of 
logic in the AR recommending the ODP as a better way to achieve Mr Ds objective 
but doing so without any performance information in support. Furthermore, the 
comparison was even much less favourable when the underlying fund charges in the 
ODP were taken into consideration, which made the SIPP switch even more 
expensive for Mr D than the PP arrangement he had. 
In the above costs context, the SIPP would have needed to outperform the PP just to 
match the future benefits the PP would have provided; and the prospect of doing this 
would have been hindered by any idea of investing the SIPP with a moderately 
cautious profile (to match Mr Ds ATR).
The switch was clearly unsuitable for Mr D and the ODP soon had funds within it turn 
illiquid. Mr D appointed new advisers in November 2018, but by then it would have 
been too late to avoid his SIPP investments being stuck in the illiquid funds. For this 
reason, there should be no end date, other than the date of settlement, for redress to 
Mr D.
TTPL disagreed with this outcome for the following main reasons:
The ODP had been authorised only in January 2016 so it accepts that by the time of 
the recommendation to Mr D later that year it was an untested fund. However, it 
should not be ignored that the ODP was designed for low ATRs like Mr Ds and its 
factsheet, which the AR reasonably relied upon, confirmed that its components were 
41.50% corporate bonds, 34% government bonds and 8% equities.
In terms of costs, it should also be noted that the same factsheet was the basis for 
the ARs considerations and recommendation; and the factsheet did not convey the 
additional underlying fund charges that the investigator referred to.
Mr Ds contributions stopped in July 2017 when the regulator instructed ODP to stop 
taking new money. In April 2018 a move to another portfolio was considered and the 
consideration was shared with Mr D, but it does appear that he responded because 
no move happened. The AR was removed from servicing the SIPP in November 
2018 but ODP was not suspended until 4 December 2018, so Mr Ds new adviser 
could have helped him switch away from the ODP before then.
There is evidence showing that the ARs advice relied, in good faith, on what the 
ODPs provider had presented about the fund. The regulators suspension of the fund 
and its enquiries into it uncovered information that shows that the AR was misled by 
the ODPs provider. 
The AR was associated with Tavistock Financial Ltd between 16 December 2015 
and 26 October 2017 (the same date this firm was sold to a third party), so any loss 
incurred by Mr D after the latter date is outside TTPLs responsibility. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Regulatory Context
The regulators Principles for Businesses  Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence; Principle 3 requires a firm to take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators  Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules  COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
clients and in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client; 
and within which COBS 9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of 
investments recommended to its clients. The regulators checklist (published in 2009) for pension switching, which highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on  Charges (has the consumer been 
switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) or a 
stakeholder pension, without good reason?); Existing benefits (has the consumer lost 
benefits in the switch without good reason?); Risk  (has the consumer switched into 
a pension that doesnt match their recorded ATR and personal circumstances?); 
Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?)
The regulators pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013 which included the 
following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages or disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. 
The regulators further alert in April 2014 which included the following;
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to 
be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all as it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
All the above were issued before the ARs advice to Mr D in 2016. The AR needed to obtain 
relevant information about Mr Ds overall profile and, given that it considered a pension 
switch for him, it was also obliged to address key and unavoidable questions, as outlined in 
the 2009 checklist, related to his profile, circumstances and objective at the time. The switch 
had to be in his best interests. It (that is the combination of the switch and the SIPP) had to 
be worth the movement away from the PP and it should have had meaningful prospects of 
being better for him than the PP, otherwise there would arguably have been no point in 
switching and no justification in incurring the costs associated with the switching process  
aside from any increase in costs with the SIPP. It follows from this that a comparison should 
also have been made between Mr Ds PP and the proposed SIPP in order to illustrate 
whether (or not) the latter was in his best interest. The ARs suitability report did this, to an 
extent, but as the investigator noted  and as I agree  it was based on limited information 
that made the resulting recommendation inherently questionable.
Was the switch suitable for Mr D?
In straightforward terms  and without even considering the suitability of the underlying funds 
within the ODP  available evidence shows that the only reasonable answer to the above 
question is no. The switch was not suitable for Mr D. The investigators view highlighted the 
key reasons  the proposed SIPP was, overall, more expensive (or likely to be more 
expensive) than the cost of the PP to Mr D and, despite the additional expense, the AR 
appears to have had no basis to conclude that the SIPP and ODP held prospects of 
performing better than the PP.Mr Ds objective made prospective performance an important, if not pivotal, factor. I do not 
suggest that the AR should have given performance guarantees of any sort. That was not 
necessary. However, in the face of the PPs underlying funds impressive performance over 
the preceding five years, it was necessary for any suitable recommendation of an alternative 
to show prospects of matching and improving upon such performance history. There 
appears to have been mutual recognition that reaching Mr Ds target retirement income was 
uncertain, but at the very least it was important to ensure that any switch was a step in the 
direction of improving  not reducing  his chances.
I also do not suggest that the PPs underlying funds past performance could not have been 
matched or improved upon. The point is that no competent comparison analysis could be 
conducted because, as TTPL concedes, the ODP was an untested fund at the time  and 
one for which the AR had no past performance history.
I do not accept TTPLs assertion or suggestion that merit could still be found in the ODP 
based on the contents of its factsheet. Mr D was an investor already invested in a PP with 
underlying investments and a [good] track record. The mere existence of the ODPs 
factsheet did not establish merit in the notion that the ODP was better for him than the 
investments in his PP  which is essentially what the ARs recommendation meant. 
I also agree with the investigators view on the comparison of costs. The full annual cost of 
Mr Ds PP arrangement was known. In contrast, it does appear that only the basic cost of the 
proposed SIPP based arrangement was known at the time of the recommendation and it is 
arguably inevitable that underlying fund charges would, in practice, have added to that cost. 
Without that addition, the basic cost of the proposed SIPP arrangement was still more 
expensive than the cost of the PP arrangement. That too made the former unsuitable, 
especially when viewed in the context of the former providing no meaningful prospect of 
better performance. 
It could not reasonably have been in Mr Ds best interest to pay more for a SIPP 
arrangement with no idea whether (or not) it would match or surpass the impressive 
performance his PP arrangement had enjoyed over the previous five years. It also must be 
noted that even with the best intentions the SIPP/ODP arrangement was arguably unlikely to 
produce better performance for him. There is a widely recognised co-relation between risk 
and reward in investments  the idea being, if higher rewards are sought, such a pursuit will 
usually need a higher exposure to risk. In Mr Ds case, his ATR remained low/cautious so 
the ODP had to reflect this and, if it did, higher rewards were arguably unlikely.
In another case, I would proceed to consider whether (or not) the underlying investment(s), 
aside from the pension arrangement switch, was suitable for the complainant. In the present 
case, I am satisfied that the unsuitability of the SIPP switch is enough to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. In simple terms, he never should have been advised to switch out of the PP that 
appears to have been serving him well. Even if, as the investigator noted, the PPs 
underlying funds might have been slightly above his ATR the possibility of fund switches 
within the PP existed to be explored. I also note his statement that his engagement with the 
AR was not something he looked for and that it was something that resulted from the AR 
cold calling him and approaching him in this context. If so, the idea of switching appears to 
have been something he did not initiate.
The ARs (and therefore TTPLs) culpability in this matter is what I have captured above  
that is, the unnecessary and unsuitable recommendation of the SIPP switch without credible 
grounds to do so. I am not persuaded by TTPLs argument that the AR should be excused 
for such a recommendation because it was misled by the ODPs provider. Whether (or not) 
there is truth in that, the point is that the AR did not have enough information and did not 
conduct enough of an analysis and comparison and did not have credible outputs from any such analysis and comparison to justify the recommendation as a reasonable and suitable 
one.
The ARs (and therefore TTPLs) culpability in this matter arises from the unsuitable 
recommendation at the outset, in 2016, when it as an AR for TTPL. It does not matter that 
the AR arrangement with TTPL subsequently ended in 2017. Indeed, TTPL appears to have 
conceded as much when it wrote to this service on 31 December 2019 and said  Tavistock 
Financial split into two parts, one part becoming The Tavistock Partnership (TTP) and the 
other being sold to Sanlam. Tavistock remains responsible for complaints between 1st 
February 2015 and 26th October 2017. [my emphasis]
I am also persuaded that the change in servicing agents in November 2018 does not matter. 
This was confirmed on 5 November 2018. By 4 December 2018 the ODP was suspended. 
On balance, I am not quite persuaded that Mr D and his new adviser would have had 
enough time to have him and his SIPP/investments on-boarded, have the new adviser 
consider its advice on the SIPP and have the new adviser give and discuss its advice with 
Mr D; and then time to determine a plan for withdrawal from the ODP and for reinvestment of 
the proceeds and time to complete execution of a withdrawal from the ODP; all before it was 
suspended. This appears to have been even more unlikely given that the ODP was already 
under the regulators investigation prior to November 2018. Overall and on balance, I am 
satisfied that TTPLs responsibility for the matter begins from the ARs recommendation and 
continues until the date of settlement.
For all the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Putting things right
 Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr D as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice and not conducted the switch to the SIPP. On balance, I consider that 
he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances at the time of advice.
Mr D is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with TTPL to provide it with all 
information and documentation relevant to its calculation of redress which it does not already 
have.
What must TTPL do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, TTPL must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Ds SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid 
to him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
TTPL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr D the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be 
paid into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
If Mr D had Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) with his PP, this must be reflected 
by TTPL in the redress to him, by seeking and applying the current annuity rate 
which can be obtainable now for an annuity on the same terms as the GAR, if any, 
provides.
Pay Mr D £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him. I agree with the 
investigators proposal in this respect.
If theres a problem closing the SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary for 
TTPL to cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or not) 
Mr D chooses to keep it operating. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr D in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Ds
Pointon York 
SIPPMixedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index 
(prior to 1 
March 2017, 
the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market 
Income Total 
Return 
Index)date of 
switch to the 
Pointon 
York SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicableactual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr D agrees to TTPL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
TTPL may request an undertaking from Mr D  to be drawn up at TTPLs expense  that he 
repays to TTPL any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in 
future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if TTPL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr D appears to have been prepared to take some risk in order to achieve capital 
growth.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ds profile is broadly reflected in this benchmark and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably provide the sort of return he 
could have obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable 
investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I order The Tavistock Partnership 
Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a 
calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman