DRN-2923873
The complaint
Mr M complains that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, esure Insurance 
limited provided poor service to him and it took almost a year to have his car repaired. 
What happened
Mr Ms new car was damaged in a hit and run incident in August 2019. He says esure 
instructed a non-approved repairer (garage S) to do the work later that month. The repairs 
had to be rectified three times. Meanwhile, esure had instructed an independent engineer 
from firm H to inspect the car and had paid Mr M £100 compensation in October 2019.  
Mr M said there were still problems with the car when it was finally returned to him in 
December 2019. esure said it could be taken to a different garage in the same network as 
firm S, but in January 2020 the second garage refused to carry out any work. esure then 
instructed firm H to inspect the car again, but that didnt happen until March 2020. The 
independent engineer found some faults with the car, but Mr M said he hadnt picked up 
other issues, so one of esures senior engineers reviewed the situation. 
Six weeks elapsed before esures engineers opinion was given to Mr M. esure said that was 
due to staffing problems caused by the national lockdown. The engineer thought esure 
should pay for the faults found by firm Hs engineer, and esure credited £185 to Mr Ms card. 
It said that sum was for the repairs found by firm H, plus £100 compensation. It said that if 
Mr M provided a report from another garage to show there were extra problems relating to 
the incident or the repairs, esure would also look to authorise further repairs. 
Two months later, Mr M took the car to firm L which found faults with the car that firm Hs 
engineer hadnt noted. esure instructed a second firm of independent engineers (firm B) to 
inspect the car  and its engineer agreed that further repair costs of almost £4,000 were 
reasonable. Firm L returned the car to Mr M fully repaired in July 2020.
In September 2020 esure responded to Mr Ms complaint. It acknowledged his frustration at 
the time taken to complete the repairs and the undue stress and anxiety caused to him by 
that. esure offered Mr M a further £300 compensation, but he wasnt happy with that. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She noted that hed told esure he 
wanted garage S to carry out the repair work. She said esure had covered all the repair 
costs - and she thought the compensation it had offered was enough to cover the stress hed 
faced, plus the time and effort hed put in to getting the claim dealt with properly. As £300 of 
the compensation was still outstanding, she said esure should pay it. The investigator noted 
that esure had apologised to Mr M. She thought it was for esure to decide whether to draft a 
report on service failings (as Mr M said he wanted it to do). She didnt think it should have to 
pay for the finance on his car during the repair period, or his monthly expenses, as for most 
of the period his car was driveable and / or hed had a courtesy car.  
Mr M asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call during which Mr M first reported the incident to esure. He said firm S 
had already collected the car and that he wanted it to carry out the repairs. The advisor 
didnt say firm S was one of esures approved repairers. He said if Mr M used his own 
repairer, hed have to pay an extra £200 policy excess - and that esure couldnt guarantee 
hed have a courtesy car. Mr M said hed still prefer to use garage S. Afterwards, firm S told 
esure it was part of a group esure has an arrangement with, which meant Mr M didnt have 
to pay an extra policy excess. 
I think Mr M could reasonably have expected the repair work to be done properly by firm S, 
as it was the dealership garage from where hed recently bought his car. But that didnt 
happen. Its standard practice to allow a repairer to carry out rectification work, and I think 
esure tried to ensure that any faults were picked up by instructing firm Hs engineer to 
inspect the car. Independent engineers from well-established firms are usually reliable, but in 
this case the engineer missed some faults, which led to the repairs dragging on. I think esure 
had recognised Mr Ms frustration by the end of October 2019, when it paid him £100 
compensation. It couldnt have known that firm S  wouldnt get the rectification work right.
The delay in firm Hs engineer inspecting the car again (from December 2019, when Mr M 
raised further concerns with it, to March 2020) was excessive. esure says it was partly 
because the engineer had problems arranging a suitable appointment with Mr M. But I dont 
think that explains the length of the delay. It became clear later on that - although firm Hs 
engineer picked up some minor faults at the second inspection - he missed others. But at the 
time, esure couldnt have known that was the case, and I think it was reasonable for it to rely 
on the view of an independent engineer. 
In my opinion, esure acted reasonably at the time by paying Mr M to have the faults the 
engineer had found repaired, by paying him further compensation, and by agreeing to 
consider authorising any relevant repairs that another garage might find. Two months later 
(after Mr M instructed firm L to assess the car and it issued its preliminary findings) I think 
esure responded quickly in agreeing to pay to put matters right. 
The repair process took just under 12 months. Theres no doubt that such a long period is 
unacceptable, but in considering whether esure dealt with the situation reasonably, I have to 
consider all the factors that contributed to it and how much Mr M was affected by it.  
  
esure cant be blamed for any delay caused by the national lockdown (which it says held up 
its engineers opinion for several weeks) or by the refusal of the second garage to do any 
work on the car. It wasnt responsible for the wait to get garage L to inspect the car  or for 
the time taken by the garages to carry out work on it.  And I think the impact of the overall 
delay on Mr M was reduced substantially by the fact that his car was driveable and that he 
also had a courtesy car for most of the period. But Mr M still had to spend a good deal of 
time chasing the garages and esure about the claim, which shouldnt have been necessary. 
esure paid Mr M £100 compensation in October 2019 and £185 in April 2020. The latter 
included a sum for repairs  although esure later paid firm L to carry them out. esure offered 
Mr M a further £300 in September 2020. I think the overall sum of £585 is substantial - and 
its in line with the amount Id have required esure to pay Mr M for distress and 
inconvenience. I dont think a higher sum is justified. Mr M was certainly inconvenienced for 
a long time, but he wasnt without transport, and the amount of compensation we require a business to pay for distress and inconvenience isnt to punish the business. Mr M told us 
recently that esure hasnt paid him £300 of the compensation, so that has to be addressed.  
  
I know Mr M has concerns about the way esure runs its business generally, but I think thats 
a matter for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I understand why Mr M 
thinks his car was unsafe to drive for the whole period, but I dont think theres evidence of 
that. Firm Bs independent engineer (who agreed to a further £4,000 of work being done on 
the car) still considered it to be roadworthy. I dont think it would be reasonable to require 
esure to refund the finance on Mr Ms car for the year, or pay his motoring expenses, when 
he had the use of a courtesy car for most of the period and / or was able to drive his car. 
Mr M says his garage has said it would cost him £3,800 to replace his car, due to the loss of 
value caused by the poor repairs. He hasnt provided any evidence of that  and theres 
been no suggestion to date that the car hasnt been repaired to the right standard by firm L. I 
think any loss of value (apart from normal depreciation) is likely to be due to the fact that 
extensive damage was caused in the incident. After that, the car was never going to be in 
the same condition it was when new, or to be as attractive to buyers. I think thats likely to 
have been the case even if high-quality repairs had been carried out in the first place. 
  
Although I understand Mr Ms level of frustration with all that occurred (especially after the 
traumatic event hed been through) I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
esure to do more than it has already offered to do. But as esure hasnt paid the extra £300 
compensation it offered Mr M in September 2020, I must require it to do that now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr M a further £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (making £585 in total) 
as it offered to do in September 2020.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman