DRN-1244727
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) handled a 
chargeback request he made. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S contacted Halifax to discuss purchases he'd made in relation to gaming 
apps. Mr S changed phone and said he wasn't able to transfer his in app purchases. 
Mr S went back to the game developers and contacted the online merchant he'd used to 
make the app purchases in an attempt to resolve the situation. Various transactions were 
refunded by the online merchant but not all. 
Mr S asked Halifax to complete a chargeback to obtain a refund for the remaining in app 
purchases but it refused. Halifax said the circumstances of Mr S' claim didn't meet the 
chargeback rules set out by Visa. Mr S complained and Halifax paid him £50 because he 
had to resend some information but didn't agree it had made a mistake by rejecting his 
chargeback claim. 
As Mr S remained unhappy he referred his concerns to our service and his complaint was 
passed to an investigator. The investigator said the chargeback had been correctly declined 
and thought Halifax had dealt with Mr S' complaint fairly. Mr S asked to appeal and said that 
the situation was covered under the Consumer Rights Act and Visa chargeback rules. As Mr 
S didn't accept the investigator's view his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that the Consumer Rights Act and Visa chargeback rules mean he should receive 
a refund for his in app purchases from Halifax. I understand Mr S' concern that he wasn't 
able to transfer purchases and progress made within apps he used on a previous device to a 
new one. But the complaint here relates to Halifax and the actions it could take after Mr S 
made purchases using his debit card. 
Halifax's options to retrieve Mr S' money were limited. As I've said, Mr S used his Visa debit 
card to make the purchases. The only option Halifax had to obtain a refund was via a 
chargeback claim. But chargebacks aren't guaranteed and any claim is subject to the rules 
which are set by Visa. 
I've reviewed Visa's chargeback rules and paid particular attention to the reasons banks can 
use to make a claim on a customer's behalf. But none of the codes or reasons banks can 
use to raise a chargeback fit the circumstances of Mr S' claim. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr S, 
but I haven't found that the chargeback rules cover the particular circumstances of his 
dispute. As a result, Halifax was correct to decline his claim.I make no comment on whether Mr S has a valid complaint in terms of whether he ought to 
be able to take his in game progress to a new device. The situation here is that the only 
mechanism available to Halifax to obtain refunds for his debit card payments is a 
chargeback claim via Visa. And, as I've said above, the circumstances of Mr S' claim aren't 
covered in the chargeback rules so Halifax was correct to decline it. 
Halifax paid Mr S £50 because he had to resend some documents. I can see that added 
some inconvenience to the situation. I think the £50 Halifax paid fairly reflects the impact of 
its error on Mr S. I'm satisfied Halifax's decision to decline Mr S' chargeback claim was 
reasonable and it dealt with his complaint fairly. As a result, I'm not telling Halifax to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman