DRN-3560160
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
following a claim he made on his HomeServe Plumbing & Drainage Plus policy with it. 
 
What happened
Mr F contacted Aviva on 12 July 2021 to request assistance regarding an issue with a tap at 
his property. An engineer attended the same day and replaced the hot and cold taps
to the basin in the bathroom as the hot tap had seized. The replacement taps were provided 
by Mr F who had bought them in anticipation that new taps might be needed as he wanted 
ones that matched his bath taps.
Mr F says that when that job was completed the hot tap functioned adequately and the cold 
tap, whilst useable, was extremely noisy and over a very short period of time the cold tap 
head appeared to come loose. The hot tap head also subsequently became loose.
A second appointment was therefore arranged for 11 August 2021. The engineer on that 
occasion was able to adjust and tighten both taps but explained that the noises coming from 
the cold tap could only be remedied by replacing the taps. The engineer offered to
replace them using stock from his van but Mr F said hed supply the new ones so they 
matched his bath taps. Aviva says that Mr F contacted it on 16 August to confirm he had 
now purchased the new taps and a third appointment was arranged for their fitting on 19 
August 2021.
Aviva cancelled the appointment for 19 August at or about 4.00 pm that day and a new 
appointment was arranged for the following Monday, 23 August when an engineer attended 
and completed a successful repair. 
Mr F raised a complaint about the service hed received from Aviva. He maintains that none 
of the consequential delays, inconvenience and other issues he experienced wouldve arisen 
had the appointment on 12 July resolved the initial problem. He says that the fact that by 11 
August the work initially done on 12 July needed redoing must cast into doubt the quality of 
that work. He says it took between 12 July and the 23 August for Aviva to provide a service 
that in plumbing terms was not that difficult and which generated undue and otherwise 
unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance.
Aviva has apologised to Mr F but says that on 11 August its engineer offered to fit 
replacement taps from his van stock. Had Mr F accepted these, the repair wouldve been 
completed the same day. Its acknowledged there was a failed attendance on 19 August and 
apologised that the next available appointment wasnt until 23 August. It acknowledges that 
Mr F was unhappy with the service provided but has explained that as the claim reported 
was not deemed to be an emergency, for which a priority appointment would have been 
given, it offered the next available appointment.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and general handling of his complaint, so he 
brought it to this service. He believes that Aviva should pay him £200 which would cover the 
costs he incurred for the second set of taps, reimburse him for three months premiums, and 
provide nominal compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Our investigators view was that there was no evidence to suggest that the failure of the taps 
fitted on 12 July was due to faulty workmanship rather than the taps themselves being faulty. 
She was also of the view that the appointment scheduled for 19 August wouldnt have been 
necessary had Mr F accepted the taps offered by Aviva on 11 August, and that rescheduling 
the missed appointment of 19 August for a date four days later wasnt such as to justify 
anything more from Aviva than the apology it had given.
Mr F doesnt accept our investigators view and has provided a number of grounds upon 
which he relies. Hes asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman. His complaint 
has therefore been passed to me for a final decision from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint and Ill give my reasons. I hope in doing 
so to satisfactorily address the points Mr F has raised in his response to our investigators 
view.
Firstly, with regard to the point Mr F makes about the quality of Avivas workmanship, theres 
no evidence either way on this. I accept Mr Fs point that it wouldnt be proportionate to have 
the quality of the taps assessed by an independent report particularly as he says the taps 
cost approximately £20. In my view, the very fact that they were so cheap could well suggest 
that the taps were at fault rather than their fitting. 
Ultimately though, there has to be some evidence either way upon which I can form a view 
on the balance of probabilities, and in the absence of any such evidence, I cant say that 
Aviva has done anything wrong here. I dont accept Mr Fs assertion that on the balance of 
probabilities the cause of the failure of the first set of replacement taps is more likely than not 
to be attributable to inadequate skill, care and workmanship rather than a defective product.
Secondly, Mr F complains about the level of service provided by Aviva. Mr Fs policy is one 
that provides insurance cover in relation to emergencies and in relation to other domestic 
incidents. Under the heading Policy Coverage it addresses the response that can be 
expected as follows:
Response
- If your incident is an emergency (including internal leaks which cannot be controlled), 
your claim will be given priority, otherwise an appointment will be made.
I dont consider that the problem that Mr F had with his basin taps falls within the definition of 
an emergency. The policys definition of an emergency is:
Sudden and unforeseen damage to something in your property covered by your 
policy, which immediately
a) exposes you to a risk to your health, or
b) creates a risk of loss of or damage to your property, or
c) makes the buildings uninhabitable,
and where you are unable to temporarily stop the incident from causing further 
immediate damage within the main house of the property (e g you are unable to turn 
the water off, contain a leak or you have no alternative facilities available)I therefore dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly with regard to the scheduling of Mr 
Fs appointments.
I accept Mr Fs assertion that it wasnt unreasonable of him to reject the taps that Aviva 
couldve fitted on 11 August as he wanted to have basin taps that matched his bath taps. 
According to Aviva, it was informed by Mr F on 16 August that the new taps were now 
available for fitting. This accounted for a five-day delay. Aviva offered an appointment on 19 
August. I dont consider that a three-day delay is unreasonable when there is no emergency. 
Unfortunately, the appointment for 19 August (a Thursday) was cancelled by Aviva. No 
reason was given, but Ive seen Avivas records for that date which state:
CMR called to check on app as had to be rescheduled saw space for today called pod 
and they said its false capacity as they have emergencies all night so booked for 23rd
I accept that this wouldve caused Mr F some inconvenience, but I dont consider that a 
delay of a further three days until the following Monday was unreasonable in circumstance 
where there was no emergency. The policy makes clear, and Mr F has acknowledged as 
perfectly reasonable and proper, that emergencies take priority. 
Mr F says he would like to receive compensation of £200. 
I should explain that awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to 
fine or punish a business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can award fair 
compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) 
has had on their customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions has 
been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience and 
upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. We're unlikely to tell a business to pay compensation 
in these circumstances unless what the business did or failed to do had a significant impact 
on a particular customer. Mr F hasnt referred to any particular inconvenience or other 
significant impact that might made a level of compensation appropriate.
Aviva has apologised and I dont think in the circumstances it would be reasonable to ask it 
to do more.
Thirdly, Mr F isnt satisfied with Avivas complaints process. Unfortunately, as this appears to 
be a separate complaint about Avivas complaints handling process after it had issued its 
final response to his initial complaints, this isnt something over which this service has 
jurisdiction.
When considering complaints brought to this service by customers, we are governed by the 
rules under which we operate, the FCA Dispute Resolution or DISP rules, which restrict us 
to the consideration of complaints about a financial service. Judicial authority (R (Mazarona 
Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 1135 (Admin)) has 
established that complaints about complaint handling are not within our jurisdiction as they 
are not complaints about a financial service, even though an associated complaint is. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman