DRN-3214285
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a home emergency policy by Homeserve Membership 
Limited regarding his claim for a collapsed manhole.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B contacted Homeserve to make a claim under his home emergency policy. 
A manhole covering a drain at his property had collapsed and the drain was blocked. The 
company arranged for the drain to be cleared, but this didnt cover the repairs needed to the 
manhole chamber and cover. 
Mr B thought this work should be covered under his policy. He refers to a phone call with 
Homeserve in January 2021 when he had specifically asked about the cover provided in 
relation to a collapsed manhole. He says this conversation led him to believe the policy 
covered the cost of these repairs.
Homeserve says that its policy allows for clearance and repair of a section of Mr Bs 
damaged drain. But it doesnt cover the repairs needed to the manhole chamber and cover. 
It says it listened to the recording of the phone call Mr B made in January 2021. During 
which its representative confirmed a blocked drain would be covered if a manhole collapsed. 
It says the information provided is accurate.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He didnt think Homeserve provided inaccurate information during this call. He 
thought the business had behaved fairly in the information it provided and didnt think Mr B 
had shown the policy covered the repairs claimed. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
I have read the policy terms to understand what cover is provided in the circumstances of Mr 
Bs claim. The terms say:
What is Covered? 
Plumbing and Drainage:
The engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear or repair a damaged section of drain 
which is leaking or causing a permanent blockage. This will include the temporary 
reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of the claim.
I understand that the engineers who attended to carry out the repairs were able to leave the 
drain running clear. The blockage was removed, and a section of the drain repaired. A 
temporary cover was then in place over the collapsed manhole chamber. 
Based on the information provided, I think the repair work was reasonably completed in line 
with the terms of the policy. 
I have listened to the call between Mr B and Homeserve to understand if it gave misleading 
information. This call took place before the policy was agreed. The call is fairly short lasting 
just under four minutes. Mr B explains that he wants to understand more about what the 
policy covers and asks some specific questions. I have set out a partial transcript of the call 
below. This includes the comments relevant to the concerns being considered here.
Mr B: Blocked drains, does that go as far as theyve been blocked because a
manhole has collapsed?
Homeserve: Yes, even if like say the manhole has collapsed then yeah thats also
covered under the policy.
Mr B: A few other ones Ive seen, a collapsed manhole theres a few issues, its either
whether its collapsed because of an accident or if its because of wear and tear,
some people wont cover.
Homeserve: Yeah, no, itll still be covered.
Mr B: Sorry.
Homeserve: Thatll still be covered.
Mr B: Oh, okay, some people wont cover it if they deem it as being normal wear and
tear of the building. 
I have thought about Mr Bs view that Homeserve told him repairs are included for a 
collapsed manhole. But I dont think this is what the representative said. The conversation is 
about whether repairs to a blocked drain are covered in the event of a collapsed manhole. 
Repairs to a drain are covered in these circumstances, as detailed in the policy terms. So, 
this information was accurate. 
Mr B refers to Homeserve saying, yeah thats also covered in response to his question 
about a manhole collapse. I acknowledge his point. But the context of the discussion is 
whether repairs to the drains are covered in the event of such a collapse. Not that the repairs 
will include work to repair a collapsed manhole. 
Mr B also points to Homeserves policy documentation that includes a diagram showing 
areas of a property covered by the policy. I have looked at the diagram, which includes an 
image of a manhole chamber. This page also includes wording which says cover is provided 
for fixing collapsed drains. 
I dont think this diagram shows the policy covers repairs to the manhole chamber that Mr B 
has claimed. The policy terms are clear that repairs to damaged sections of drains are 
covered and that an engineer will ensure a drain is running clear. But cover is only provided 
for the temporary reinstatement of any excavations. 
In considering all of this, I dont think Mr B has shown that Homeserve gave misleading 
information over the phone about the cover provided under his policy. I think the policy terms 
are clearly set out, and this doesnt provide cover for required repairs to the manhole 
chamber. Because of this I think Homeserve treated Mr B fairly in relying on the policy terms 
and declining to pay for these repairs. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve 
his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman