DRN-4048216
The complaint
Miss B complains that Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 15 February 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 15 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Miss B complains that Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2022, Miss B took out an Updraft 5-year loan for £7500 with monthly
repayments of £177.23. The purpose of the loan was to save money by paying off other
more expensive borrowing.
However, soon after taking out the loan Miss B couldnt afford the repayments, so she
complained to Updraft. Miss B said Updraft shouldnt have approved the loan as she was left
with £150 negative disposable income.
Updraft didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. They explained that if the loan was used for the
purpose intended, it would have saved Miss B money on interest and cleared a few credit
cards at a higher interest rate or cleared an outstanding loan.
Miss B complained to our service and our investigator upheld her complaint. He said Updraft
had carried out proportionate checks but didnt think their lending decision was fair from the
outset. He explained this was because his analysis showed Miss B was reliant on credit
cards for everyday spending and, after paying for all her borrowing, would be left with only
£200 per month for food, utility bills etc which he thought was unsustainable.
So, he said Miss B should only have to repay the money she borrowed, and Updraft should
refund all of the interest and charges Miss B paid on the loan. Also, Updraft should remove
any negative information recorded on Miss Bs credit file.
However, Updraft disagree as they feel Miss B has been using the loan for a different
purpose to that agreed. Also, they say her mortgage was confirmed as a lower amount and
information she declared was untrue and falsified to gain credit.
So, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I will explain how I
have come to my decision.
Ill start by explaining that Ive considered everything that Miss B has said about her situation
and the impact of the lending here. Its clear that she found the investigators proposed
outcome a relief and I can see why. But my role here is to look at all the evidence afresh and
come to an independent and impartial decision on whats fair and reasonable.
Ive considered the intended purpose of the loan and, from viewing the information held on
file, including company information, pre-contractual documentation and higher interest rates
on Miss Bs other borrowing, Im satisfied this was to help her by paying off and / or clearing
her existing debt. Updraft provided clear information to Miss B that this was the kind of
lending it provided and was the basis on which the lending was being offered here.
Also, looking at what Updraft has provided here and taking into account the interest rate it
applied, it does look like Miss B wouldve reduced the overall interest she was paying on
existing lending and likely been in a better financial position, had she used the money from
the loan for its intended purpose which was to clear existing debts.
I then looked closely at the checks Updraft completed prior to their lending decision and I
found these were both thorough and proportionate for the amount being lent. There is
evidence Updraft carried out proportionate and reasonable checks when assessing Miss Bs
income and expenditure. Updraft asked Miss B to confirm both the information provided and
their understanding:
Do you think we are right with these figures? Please let us know if you think we have
anything wrong here. Also, do tell us if you share any of these commitments with someone
else.
It seems like some of the information Miss B provided wasnt necessarily accurate though. I
cant see that Miss B corrected information including her mortgage payment which Updraft
later (post agreement) discovered was £360 instead of the £184 listed.
To support that it was acting reasonably here, Ive seen that Updraft did ask about
information that didnt look right. For example, when Updraft specifically questioned the low
amounts of Miss Bs essential shopping and bills, she responded with the following comment
which isnt supported by the bank statements on file:
bills are so low because I live in a flat so gas, electric are minimum, I do only spend £100 on
food etc because there is only me. I share no other commitments with anyone else thanks"
So, I found that when Miss B was given the opportunity to confirm information on her
expenditure there were omissions and incorrect figures. And I cant see Miss Bs comment
that Updraft missed some questions on anything extra I pay a month to be correct.
Although Updraft completed thorough credit checks and didnt have the full information, I
assessed their lending decision based on the information they received and confirmed.
Updraft calculated that Miss B had £325 per month remaining after deducting outgoings from
income. Although Miss B clearly had a lot of existing outgoings from her approximately
£1,777 net monthly salary, I think this was fair and reasonable. This is because Miss B had
confirmed this amount together with her expenditure and there was information she omitted.In addition, Updraft had clarified the loan was to consolidate her other credit commitments.
So overall here, Im satisfied that Updraft carried out reasonable and proportionate checks
and was entitled to lend on that basis.
Ive then gone on to consider whether there are any other reasons that Updraft shouldnt
have lent here. Part of the problem is that this loan was intended to refinance existing
borrowing and, had it done that, it would have been likely that the loan here would have
been beneficial for Miss Bs overall financial position. However, having viewed Miss Bs
submissions and financial statements its clear that she felt it necessary to use the money
from the loan in a different way. This was for cashflow as she was reliant on credit cards for
everyday spending. But I dont see that this would have been foreseeable for Updraft,
especially as Updraft would have reasonably expected Miss B to reduce her borrowing on
these cards.
Although Miss B says she was using credit cards to pay for everyday life and she was
panicking she wouldnt be able to afford everyday living like eating and heating I couldnt
see that she disclosed this important information to Updraft and I couldnt see that it could
have been aware of this from what its checks revealed either.
Finally, as Miss B finds herself in a difficult and vulnerable position and says she was
struggling to think clearly and Updraft wouldnt help me, no breathing space was offered or
any help whatsoever, I checked whether Updraft had offered any support in line with
Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance. And I could see that when Miss B asked for
assistance, Updraft signposted her to support services that could help her and also offered a
payment break.
So, considering all the above I think Updraft have acted fairly and reasonably here, and
although I empathise with Miss Bs difficult financial position, Im not asking Updraft to take
any further action.
I appreciate Miss B will be extremely disappointed by this provisional decision but I hope Ive
explained why Im minded to come to the outcome I have suggested here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 15 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
I received a response from both parties.
Updraft agreed with the provisional decision.
Miss B said that she didnt falsify her application and explained there wasnt anywhere for 
me to put about my maintenance fees etc and my pension. She also said, I could have 
used the money to pay off some of my cards but as I stated I would have still been in the 
same position as the same monthly amount was going out each month, so I was in no better 
position. Miss B added that the advice Updraft gave her didnt help her because she 
couldnt pay and asked for a reduced monthly amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ill start by thanking Miss B for her helpful response. Also, I would like to point out that my 
role here is to be impartial  that is, to be objective and to be fair to both parties.
I further considered Updrafts checks and communications with Miss B. Due to file evidence 
that Updraft questioned expenditure information and gave Miss B the opportunity to advise 
them of any omissions, I remain satisfied that Updraft acted in good faith and carried out 
checks that were reasonable and proportionate. Also, Miss B says she was using credit 
cards to pay for everyday life and she was panicking she wouldnt be able to afford 
everyday living like eating and heating and I cant see that she disclosed this important 
information to Updraft.
As stated in my provisional decision Updraft thought the loan was to refinance existing 
borrowing and, had it done that, I think it likely that the loan wouldve been beneficial for Miss 
Bs overall financial position. However, Miss B decided not to use the loan this way and this 
wouldnt have been foreseeable for Updraft who wouldve reasonably expected Miss B to 
reduce her borrowing on these cards.
I further checked the support that Updraft gave Miss B. In addition to sign posting there is 
evidence Updraft offered a payment break which I think was reasonable. However, Miss said 
she was not looking to enter a debt solution at all.
So, having considered everything again including Miss Bs response, although I empathise 
with Miss Bs difficult financial position, Im not asking Updraft to take any further action here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman