DRN-2937161
The complaint
Mr F complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
In September 2019, Mr F booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call C. He booked flights and 
accommodation separately. Mr F paid a deposit for the accommodation and the balance was 
due in June 2020. He was due to travel on 19 August 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. In June 2020, 
Mr F decided against paying the accommodation balance, to limit his cancellation costs to 
the cost of the deposit. He says he called UKI to let it know. A couple of weeks later, the 
airline cancelled Mr Fs flights. Mr F ultimately made a claim on his travel insurance policy for 
the accommodation deposit costs.
UKI turned down Mr Fs claim. It said the policy covered cancellation due to the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination, if the advice was 
given in the 28 days before the scheduled departure date. In this case, Mr F had decided to 
cancel his accommodation over two months before he was due to travel. So it said the claim 
wasnt covered. It did accept though that it had provided Mr F with poor customer service 
and so it paid him £80 compensation to reflect this.
Mr F was unhappy with UKIs decision. He felt that UKI shouldve told him upfront that the 
cancellation would only be covered if FCO advice against travel was in place in the 28 days 
before he was due to travel. And he considered hed mitigated UKIs losses, because if hed 
paid the balance and waited to cancel his holiday; UKI wouldve been liable for significantly 
more money. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She accepted that at the 
point Mr F cancelled his accommodation, there had been FCO advice against all but 
essential travel to C. But she noted that on 4 July 2020, C became exempt from this 
guidance. So at the point Mr F had been due to travel, there was no FCO advice in place. 
This meant that even if Mr F had waited until 28 days before he was due to travel to cancel 
the trip, his claim wouldnt have been covered. She also thought that given the change in 
FCO advice, Mr F would likely have been able to rebook his flights and travel as planned. 
Overall, she felt it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F disagreed. He said UKI hadnt made him aware of the 28-day rule. He felt hed tried to 
do the fair thing by mitigating his losses. He stated that as the airline had cancelled his 
flights, he had no way of getting to C, unless he paid more for new flights.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt 
turn down claims unreasonably. So in deciding whether UKI treated Mr F fairly, Ive 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of his policy and the circumstances of his claim.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Fs contract with UKI. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events UKI covers if a 
policyholder has to cancel their trip. One of these says:
Reason for cancellation
FCO travel advice: All but essential travel': in the 28 days before your trip start date the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your destination.
In this case, Mr F chose to cancel his accommodation on 14 June 2020  which was more 
than two months before the planned start date of his trip. I accept that at the point Mr F 
decided not to pay the accommodation balance, there was still FCO guidance in place 
against all but essential travel abroad. But this was significantly more than 28 days before Mr 
Fs trip was due to start. So while I can appreciate that Mr F was concerned that he wouldnt 
be able to travel as planned at that point, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to 
conclude that claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Its also clear that on 4 July 2020, C became exempt from FCO advice against all but 
essential travel abroad and UK nationals were able to holiday there. While Mr Fs airline had 
previously cancelled his flight, it wouldve most likely been liable to refund him his flight 
costs. So I think Mr F wouldve likely been in a position to rebook his flights to C. And 
importantly, on the date Mr F was due to travel, 19 August 2020, C remained exempt from 
FCO advice against travel. This means then, that in the 28 days before Mr F was due to fly 
to C, there was no FCO guidance against travel in place. Accordingly, Im satisfied it was fair 
for UKI to decide that Mr Fs cancellation claim wasnt covered by the terms of the contract.
Mr F says he called UKI ahead of cancelling the accommodation and let it know his plans. 
He feels strongly that it ought to have told him that any cancellation claim wouldnt be 
covered if the cancellation took place more than 28 days before the trip start date. UKI has 
no record of the call. In any event though, if I accept the call happened as Mr F says, I dont 
think I could fairly find that any failure of UKI to explain how this term worked caused him to 
lose out. Thats because even if Mr F had gone on to pay the balance and then cancelled his 
trip within 28 days of departure, there still wouldnt have been any FCO advice against travel 
to C in place. So he still wouldnt have had a valid claim under this policy term, which UKI 
wouldve been liable to pay. And as a result, Mr Fs own financial loss wouldve been 
significantly more. This means Im not telling UKI to pay the claim on this basis.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Fs position, because I appreciate hes out of 
pocket, I dont think UKI acted unfairly when it turned down his claim. Having considered the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, I simply dont think the claim is covered. I 
understand Mr F feels he received poor service from UKI  but it recognised it provided poor 
service around call backs and it paid Mr F £80 compensation to reflect this. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied this was a fair award. So Im not telling UKI to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman