DRN-3669632
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd provided her with two credit cards and increased the limit 
on both without adequately checking that she could afford any repayments.
What happened
Mrs H applied for and was provided with two credit cards by NewDay. The cards and dates 
of increase in credit limits are as follows:
Credit card 1:
Date Credit 
Limit
Dec 18 (issued) £1,200
May 19 £1,950
Sept 19 £2,950
Jan 20 £3,950
Credit card 2:
Date Credit 
Limit
Jul 19 (issued) £1,200
Feb 20 £2,700
Sep 20 £3,700
Mrs H complained to NewDay that she could only afford the minimum repayment on each 
card and the credit limit increases caused a strain on her financial situation. She had 
problems making the repayments and a payment freeze was set up on both accounts in 
February 2021 and ended in May 2021. Mrs H didnt contact NewDay after that date until 
she made her complaint. I understand that as of February 2022 the debt has been sold on to 
a third party.
NewDay didnt agree that it had irresponsibly lent on either card. In respect of both cards it 
said it had reviewed Mrs Hs circumstances and carried out credit searches. It said that 
Mrs H met its acceptance criteria a in respect of both cards. It also said that each credit limit 
was provided to Mrs H correctly and adequate checks carried out to ensure they were 
affordable.
After referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our Investigator said that adequate checks had 
been carried out to ensure affordability in respect of credit card 1 when it was issued in 
December 2018. But he didnt think that the checks carried out at the time of increasing the 
limit for credit card 1 and issuing and increasing the limit on credit card 2 showed the credit 
to be affordable,. He reviewed the bank statements provided by Mrs H which showed 
significant debts and gambling transactions.
NewDay pointed out that under the Consumer Credit Rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) it wasnt obliged to review bank statements so it would be unfair to review 
them retrospectively to uphold a complaint.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where NewDay ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Hs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Credit card 1
I think NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in respect of the application 
for this card. At the time of making the application, Mrs H disclosed that she had a 
household income of around £28,500 (including her own self-employed income of £5,500). 
She had unsecured debts of around £1,000. She did have historic defaulted accounts going 
back nearly four years but had no more recent defaults or any payday loans. 
I think NewDay acted reasonably in providing Mrs H with her credit card in December 2018 
with a limit of £1,200.
When it came to considering a credit limit increase, Mrs H had gone from having a zero 
balance on all credit cards in December 2018 to £8,938 the next month and by the time of 
the May 2019 credit limit increase this balance had gone up to £9,873. Clearly this was a 
very significant increase in her indebtedness. NewDay already knew that the bulk of her 
household income was not her own income, yet the credit card debts were in her name 
alone.NewDay has pointed out that its not obliged by the rules to consider bank statements. That 
is right but I do think the checks it did at the time of raising the credit limit should have 
alerted it to carrying out further checks. I dont think, on the information it then had that it 
would have been appropriate to raise the credit limit without carrying out further checks. But I 
have to be satisfied, as set out above that if it had done further checks that it would then 
have found any further lending to be unsustainable. This is because I think further checks 
(whether by reviewing bank statements or any other method) would have revealed that 
Mrs H did have significant indebtedness, including making regular payments through a debt 
advice charity, and transactions debiting the joint account over the same period before the 
increase, of between £220 and £590 per month. And on her personal account she had 
regular gambling transactions of around £700 to £1,000 a month.
I dont think NewDay acted fairly in increasing the credit limit in May 2019. This isnt using 
the bank statements to retrospectively uphold the complaint but to set out that if NewDay 
had carried out further checks, which it should have been alerted to by the substantial 
increase in Mrs Hs credit card debt, it likely wouldnt have increased the limit as any 
increase in payments would have been unsustainable.
Similar considerations apply to the September 2019 and January 2020 increases. NewDay 
has pointed out that, although Mrs Hs credit card debt had increased to £10,110 by June 
2019, this had decreased to £5,140 by August. Given that the debt had been rising since 
January 2019, I dont think a sudden fall in it indicates that Mrs H was managing her 
finances well, rather it raises the question of how the debt was repaid. And by January 2020 
the figure had risen to around £9,100. I dont think that the checks carried out by NewDay for 
the second and third credit limit increases were adequate to show Mrs Hs level of 
indebtedness. Again that should have alerted NewDay to carry out further checks which 
would in my view have shown the further credit to be unsustainable.
Credit card 2
This was issued in July 2019, when Mrs Hs credit card debt had risen to its highest level, of 
over £10,000. For the same reasons as Ive set out above in respect of credit card 1, I think 
in light of what Newday already knew about Mrs Hs circumstances, any further credit was 
likely to be unsustainable. At the time of the credit limit increases in February and 
September 2020, Mrs Hs credit card indebtedness had risen to, respectively £9,100 and 
£13,200. 
So I think that in respect of the credit card limit increase in respect of credit card 1 and the 
issuing and the increases in credit limit of credit card 2, NewDay ought reasonably to have 
realised it was increasing Mrs Hs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
Putting things right
In respect of Credit card 1:
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mrs Hs credit limit to £1,950, then to £2,950, 
then to £3,950, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances 
which exceeded the first limit of £1,200. However, Mrs H has had the benefit of all the 
money she spent on the account so I think she should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay 
should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £1,200. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 25 May 
2019 regarding this account from Mrs Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,200, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H for the remaining amount. Once Mrs H 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 25 May 
2019 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried 
out promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
In respect of Credit card 2:
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mrs H should 
pay back the amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Mrs Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs H for the remaining amount. Once Mrs H has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from 
their credit file. 
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried 
out promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he/she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require NewDay Ltd to provide the remedy set out under Putting 
things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman