DRN-3634888
The complaint
Miss X complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her current account and wouldnt 
give her a reason why. 
What happened
On 7 March 2022, Barclays sent Miss X a letter saying it intended to close her account 
on 8 May 2022. The letter referred Miss X to the terms and conditions of the account to 
let her know that it was able to do this. 
Miss X wasnt happy with Barclays decision to close the account  and she feels that 
part of its reason for doing so is because it is discriminating against her. 
Our Investigator looked into Miss Xs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought 
that Barclays had acted in line with the terms and conditions when it made the decision 
to close the account  and it provided her with sufficient notice. The Investigator 
explained that although they couldnt disclose the reason why Barclays chose to close 
the account, they felt that its reasoning was fair. The Investigator didnt find that Barclays 
had discriminated against Miss X.
Miss X didnt agree with the Investigators view  she didnt feel that she had been 
treated fairly by Barclays and she believes that she had been discriminated against. 
Miss X says that she saw some information that stated Barclays had been known to 
close the accounts of some customers with specific ethnicities without providing any 
reason why.
Miss X also said that she couldnt open another bank account because her credit score 
was low. 
Because Miss X didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision 
on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Xs complaint.
The terms and conditions of the account say:
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice.
The letter Barclays sent to Miss X to notify her of the closure was dated 7 March 2022. And 
the letter stated that it would close Miss Xs account on 8 May 2022. I have noted that Miss 
X was sent a letter after this date on 27 April 2022, which confirmed the account would close 
on 28 June 2022. But the actual date Miss Xs account was closed was 8 May 2022. 
Based on what Ive said above, I agree that Barclays acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when it made the decision to close Miss Xs account and provide 
her with sufficient notice. Barclays doesnt have to provide Miss X with a reason for the 
closure, it just needs to ensure that its given her sufficient notice, which I agree it has done. 
I have seen that Miss X has provided us with reasons as to why she thinks her account 
might have closed, and reasons why she doesnt think this is fair. But as Ive explained, 
Barclays dont have to provide Miss X with an explanation as to why it closed her account  
as long as it gave her sufficient notice  which it has done. 
I understand Miss X says she thinks Barclays has discriminated against her when it made 
the decision to close the account. I havent seen the specific information that Miss X has 
referred to. But I have seen the information provided by Barclays stating the reason it 
decided to close the account and based on this, I cant agree that Barclays have treated 
Miss X differently because of her nationality or ethnicity and I dont think it has acted unfairly 
in how it closed her account. 
I can see that Barclays sent Miss X another letter on 27 April 2022, letting her know that the 
account would close on 28 June 2022  I dont think it was helpful of Barclays to provide 
Miss X with contradictory information like this. And I can understand that this would have 
been frustrating and confusing for Miss X. But I havent seen that Miss X lost out financially 
as a result of this misleading information  and I think Miss X would have been on notice that 
shed need to find a new bank account regardless. So, I dont think Barclays needs to do 
anything more to put things right for Miss X. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss X, I know how strongly she 
feels about her complaint. And Im sorry to have read of the difficulties shes faced in getting 
a new bank account. But as Ive said, Barclays hasnt done anything wrong in closing the 
account, and so I cant ask it to reopen Miss Xs account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman