DRN-2069895
The complaint
Mr A and Ms M are unhappy that they werent able to get a Lend a Hand mortgage from 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 2019.
Mr A and Ms M are represented by Dr B and Ms M. Ill refer to Dr B and Ms M as the 
representatives.
What happened
The representatives approached Lloyds in 2019. They said they were very close friends of 
Mr A and Ms M, and wanted to discuss assisting them get a Lend a Hand mortgage.
The Lloyds Lend a Hand mortgage is a product that allows a close family member to 
support first time buyers by placing 10% of the property price in a fixed term savings account 
with Lloyds for three years.
Lloyds notes indicate that the Mr A and Ms M wanted to borrow 100% of the property price 
as they didnt have a deposit to put down on the property they wanted to buy. Lloyds said the 
only mortgage that potential mortgage customers can apply for, without having a deposit, is 
the Lend a Hand mortgage. With this type of mortgage loan, a family member puts up the 
deposit in place of the borrower. It said the representatives wouldnt be able to help Mr A 
and Ms M get the mortgage as their proposed arrangement didnt meet the mortgage 
eligibility criteria. Thats because the Lend a Hand mortgage only allows supporters who 
fall within their definition of close family members. The representatives arent related to 
Mr A and Ms M.
The representatives complained as they think Lloyds criteria is unfair. They think that 
Lloyds eligibility criteria indirectly discriminates against people that arent UK nationals or 
have close relatives in the UK.
Our investigator said that the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider complaints 
that relate to individuals. So she considered whether Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr A and 
Ms M.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly towards Mr A and Ms M. She said that 
terms and conditions of Lloyds Lend a Hand mortgage said that a supporter must have one 
of the following relationships with the applicant(s):
Parents, step-parents, adoptive parents, in-laws, applicant's children, stepchildren, 
half children, adopted children, brothers and sisters, half brothers and sisters, 
stepbrothers and sisters, grandparents, step grandparents, grandchildren, step 
grandchildren, aunt or uncle.
In this case theres no dispute that the representatives dont have any of the above 
relationships with Mr A and Ms M. The representatives are close friends of Mr A and Ms M. 
Our investigator thought that Lloyds was entitled to use own commercial judgment to set 
their eligibility criteria, as long as they did that legitimately and within the law and mortgage 
regulation. She thought Lloyds had done this in this case. She said Lloyds has told us that 
they set the eligibility criteria in the way that they did because it thinks family relationships 
are lower risk and more likely to be longer lasting than non-family relationships. The 
representatives didnt agree with this. 
The representatives said that Mr A and Ms M had limited family relationships in the UK. So 
this affected their ability to meet the Lend a Hand mortgage criteria. Our investigator 
considered this. However, she said Lloyds was entitled to consider risk, and the amount of 
risk it was willing to take when lending, when setting the criteria for its Lend a Hand 
mortgage.
 
Our investigator also said that financial products arent always available to everyone. 
Although she appreciated that Mr A and Ms M had limited family relationships in the UK, she 
could see that Ms Ms parents were based in the UK. Ms Ms parents werent able to help 
Mr A and Ms M get the Lend a Hand mortgage. However, our investigator said this didnt 
mean that Mr A and Ms M had been excluded from accessing the mortgage due to their 
status in the UK. So she didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in this case. The 
representatives disagreed. 
The representatives also complained that Lloyds didnt do enough to help Mr A and Ms M 
find another mortgage that wouldve been suitable for them. They said that theyd asked for 
a discussion to take place, in an email of 9 April 2019, a letter of 2 June 2019, and in our 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said she couldnt see that any formal application or discussion had taken 
place with Mr A and Ms M in order to establish their circumstances and whether there were 
any alternatives that could be provided. However, she also noted in her view that Mr A and 
Ms M had been able to obtain assistance from another lender.
The representatives asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld, which I appreciate wont be the 
outcome that Mr A and Ms M are hoping for. Ill explain why.
I will begin by explaining that its up to Lloyds to set its own lending policy, and to decide  
who to lend to, how much, and on what terms. The bank is allowed to use its commercial 
judgement to put in place a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory 
obligations, as well as its attitude to risk. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Lloyds. In other words, I have to decide if 
Lloyds took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before 
reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the 
decisions Lloyds made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to set lending policy for Lloyds.
In this case, the representatives werent able to assist Mr A and Ms M get a Lend a Hand 
mortgage because they dont fall within Lloyds definition of close family members.  Lloyds 
told us they set up the Lend a Hand mortgage in this way because they consider family 
relationships to be longer lasting and lower risk than non-family relationships. I appreciate that the representatives disagree. Theyve said that some of the relationships that fall within 
the definition of close family members (e.g. step grandparents) are not likely to be long 
lasting and have come into being as a result of family breakdown. 
However, I dont think Lloyds position is an unreasonable one given that the people 
supporting applicants of the Lend a Hand mortgage would need to place 10% of the 
property price in a fixed term savings account with Lloyds for three years. This is likely to be 
a substantial sum. So I can understand why Lloyds would be looking for that assistance to 
be provided by people that are likely to have a long-lasting relationship with the mortgage 
applicants.
 
I think that in setting the criteria for the Lend a Hand mortgage Lloyds has considered the 
level of risk its willing to take on as a lender. Lloyds is agreeing to accept a mortgage 
without any deposit being provided by the applicants, but in return it is expecting a relative to 
set aside 10% of the property price in the medium term. I think, having taken consideration 
of the wider risks present in the proposed transaction thats a legitimate reason for it to set 
the criteria in the way that it has. 
The representatives have told us about the strength of their relationship with Mr A and Ms M 
and their financial standing. So they think Lloyds shouldve made an exception in this case. I 
understand their position. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
say that Lloyds shouldve done this when the eligibility criteria werent met.
The representatives have argued that Mr A and Ms M arent UK nationals who have limited 
family members in the UK. So they feel the criteria Lloyds set in relation to its Lend a Hand 
mortgage indirectly discriminated against Mr A and Ms M on the grounds of nationality/race.
Ive thought very carefully about what the representatives have said, and I dont think 
Mr A and Ms M have been indirectly discriminated against on the grounds of nationality/race. 
Before I explain why, I think its helpful for me to set out how Ive reached this view.
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act 2010. The Equality Act applies to Lloyds, and its something Ive taken into 
account in this case. 
Ive used the words taken into account because it isnt for me to make a finding on matters 
of law in my decisions. Thats a matter for the courts. Nor is it for me to act as a regulator 
and decide whether Lloyds breached relevant regulations. However, I have considered the 
Equality Act, and discrimination in the wider sense. Ive thought about whether Mr A and 
Ms M have been treated unfairly, and if they have, whether that unfair treatment was 
because of who they are. 
The representatives have told us that Mr A and Ms M arent UK nationals. Ms M had been 
an asylum seeker, but she has indefinite leave to remain in the UK now. The representatives 
say that Mr A and Ms M have a limited number of relatives in the UK. So they think Mr A 
and Ms M had less opportunity to take advantage of the Lend a Hand mortgage than UK 
nationals. I understand the point the representatives are making. But Im conscious that 
Ms Ms parents live in the UK. That means her parents would fall within the definition of 
close family members. However, the representatives have told us that Ms Ms parents 
werent in a position to help with the mortgage.
 
Although I take on board the fact that Mr A and Ms M may have less close family members 
in the UK than many UK nationals, I dont think it follows that the Lend a Hand mortgage 
indirectly discriminated against them. Im conscious that many UK nationals wouldnt have 
close family members in the UK that are in a position to help them get a mortgage.The representatives have also said that Lloyds eligibility criteria indirectly discriminate 
against people that arent UK nationals or have close relatives in the UK. They dont think 
Lloyds policy could withstand proper scrutiny under a race action plan. And theyre 
unhappy that Lloyds hasnt confirmed whether it has carried out an equality impact 
assessment in relation to the Lend a Hand mortgage. 
I appreciate that the representatives are concerned about these issues. However, I think its 
helpful to point out here that Lloyds isnt a public body. So it isnt required to carry out an 
equality impact assessment or have a race action plan. In setting the criteria for the Lend a 
Hand mortgage Lloyds (as a service provider) was required to consider whether any 
policies might be indirectly discriminatory. I think it did this. Lloyds was not under a duty to 
carry out impact assessments. 
Finally I will cover the representatives points about the way their complaint was handled, 
and that Lloyds didnt do enough to help Mr A and Ms M find a mortgage that was suitable 
for them. 
The representatives say they met a Lloyds mortgage adviser in April 2019. When they were 
told they couldnt help Mr A and Ms M with the Lend a Hand mortgage they asked for 
alternative options, along with an explanation about why the mortgage was set up in the way 
that it was. The representatives also asked for a copy of Lloyds Equality Impact Assessment 
for the Lend a Hand mortgage.
The matter was dealt with as a complaint by Lloyds  something the representatives say 
they didnt ask for. When the representatives didnt get the answers they were looking for, 
they told Lloyds they would be seeking legal advice as they had concerns about the 
mortgage in relation to the Equality Act.
Given this context, and the threat of legal action, I understand why Lloyds dealt with the 
matter as a formal complaint. The representatives also told us they had asked for a copy of 
Lloyds complaints policy in May 2019.
The representatives say that Lloyds shouldve done more to help Mr A and Ms M find 
another mortgage that wouldve been suitable for them given that they specifically asked for 
this. I think it wouldve been helpful if Lloyds had said it would be willing to meet Mr A 
and Ms M to discuss their mortgage options. This mightve helped the representatives feel 
less aggrieved about what happened. However, Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr A 
and Ms M themselves tried to meet Lloyds to talk though their mortgage options. I think 
Lloyds could reasonably expect Mr A and Ms M to do this if they wanted to explore getting a 
mortgage from Lloyds. Im also conscious that Mr A and Ms M were looking for a very high 
loan to value (possibly around 100%) mortgage. That wouldve meant that their options 
wouldve been very limited.
I understand that Mr A and Ms M have been able to obtain assistance from another lender 
now. 
Taking the matter as a whole, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything to put this aspect of 
the complaint right, which I appreciate may come as disappointing news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman