DRN-3866433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about delays by Barclays Bank UK Plc in completing a mortgage. 
They say Barclays offered compensation and hasnt paid this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W completed an internal re-mortgage process with Barclays to change to an 
offset mortgage. This should have completed on 1 November 2021. Barclays had made an 
error with the charge on their property and completion of the re-mortgage was delayed while 
this was sorted out. Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was on the standard variable rate (SVR) for 
five months until the re-mortgage completed at the end of March 2022.
Mr and Mrs W say Barclays agreed to refund the difference in interest between November 
2021 and March 2022, but hasnt done this fairly. They ask that it also refunds the product 
fee as they wouldnt have proceeded with Barclays if theyd known what would happen. They 
say Barclays paid £200 compensation but this doesnt reflect their time and stress.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I upheld the complaint, and what I 
thought Barclays should do to put matters right. This was substantially as set out below. 
Both parties agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made an error with the charge on Mr and Mrs Ws property. This took some time to 
sort out, and held up completion of their re-mortgage. Barclays sent a final response letter in 
January 2022. It said it had paid £200 compensation and that once the re-mortgage was 
completed it would refund the difference in interest due to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage being 
on the SVR during the delay.
Mr and Mrs W say the way Barclays calculated the refund isnt right, as it doesnt take into 
account the money in their linked accounts which should have been offset against their 
mortgage balance before interest was calculated.
Mrs W provided a copy of Barclays mortgage offer dated 11 October 2021 which says:
We calculate interest daily on the amount of your mortgage less the credit balance on 
your current and saving account(s) that are linked to your mortgage, which helps 
towards paying off your mortgage.
The product that should have been in place from 1 November 2021 had a lower interest rate 
than the SVR. In addition, the mortgage balance would be offset or reduced by the balance 
in Mr and Mrs Ws linked accounts before the interest was calculated. This would further 
reduce the amount of interest applied to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs Ws offset product should have been in place from 1 November 2021. In order to 
put matters right and return Mr and Mrs W to the position they should be in, Barclays needs 
to rework their mortgage account as if:
Their linked accounts had been linked to their mortgage from 1 November 2021, and the 
balances offset against the mortgage balance from then; and
The offset product interest rate had been applied from 1 November 2021 to the mortgage 
balance after the balances of the linked accounts had been offset.
Linked accounts arent interest bearing. So if Barclays paid interest on any of the linked 
accounts from 1 November 2021 this should be reversed. If this would result in a negative 
balance on any account, Barclays should give Mr and Mrs W reasonable notice to allow 
them to make a payment into the account to avoid this.
Mr and Mrs W ask that Barclays refunds the product fee. They say had they known about 
the problems theyd experience they wouldnt have stayed with Barclays. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require Barclays to refund the product fee. Mr and Mrs W will have the 
benefit of the offset mortgage product. But I do think Barclays should pay compensation for 
the inconvenience its errors caused and the delay in putting things right.
Barclays (or perhaps solicitors acting on its behalf) made an error when Barclays charge 
was attached to land which wasnt part of the security property. Having read the account 
notes provided by Barclays I think it took too long to put this right, it made further errors 
when doing so and the process caused Mr and Mrs W inconvenience. Barclays caused 
further inconvenience and upset by not re-calculating the interest applied to Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage account in a fair way.
Taking all this into account, I think Barclays should pay £500 (in total) for the inconvenience 
caused. If it has paid the £200 it offered, it can deduct this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to re-work Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage account as described above and pay compensation of £500 (in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 January 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman