DRN-3332122
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint concerns their mortgage protection plan (MPP) originally taken 
out with HSBC in 1989. Their three main concerns relate to 1) being forced to take out the 
policy 2) not being given the opportunity to review or amend it in 2003 and 2008 and 3) that 
HSBC has not treated them fairly because it has mishandled their complaint, specifically 
their subject access and right to rectification requests under data protection legislation.   
To resolve the complaint, Mr and Mrs O want all of their premiums to be returned with 
interest, an explanation for the delay regarding their data requests, an apology and 
compensation for the stress and anguish theyve been caused.  
What happened
Mr O had been an employee of HSBCs since the early 1980s. The MPP he and Mrs O took 
out in 1989 matched the term, type, and amount of their mortgage lending. It had a 
reviewable premium with a net 15% staff discount, and reviews took place in 2005, 2009 and 
2012. The monthly premium began at £11.27 each month; it reduced to £8.31 in 2005 and 
finally £7.30 from 2009. The MPP ran until the end of its term in 2014.
Further borrowing took place in 2003, when Mr and Mrs O agreed to a relocation package. 
At that time they increased their mortgage to £110,000. And in 2008, they took out a further 
interest-only mortgage with HSBC, at the same level of borrowing.  
In 2019, a claims management company (CMC) complained on Mr and Mrs Os behalf 
about this policy and a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Thereafter, Mr O carried 
on with the complaint. He said the MPP was mis-sold as it wasnt put to Mr and Mrs O that it 
was optional, nor was it established that the policy was suitable for them. He also said the 
terms were not explained and the benefits held in their respective employment rendered the 
cover unnecessary.  
In November 2020, HSBC rejected the complaint. It said the policy was sold at a time when 
HSBC required life insurance as condition of mortgage lending. The policy wasnt optional 
and HSBC was entitled to conditions when offering mortgages. If Mr and Mrs O had been 
unhappy about that, they could have sought their lending elsewhere. 
In terms of suitability, HSBC said there was an absence of documentation from 1989 
because of the time that had passed. However, it did not believe the policy was mis-sold.  
If did pay Mr and Mrs O £100 for the time it took to offer a reply to the complaint and the 
general poor service Mr and Mrs O said they had experienced.  
Mr O said he and Mrs O disagreed and sent in a detailed response to HSBC for further 
information. In the interim, Mr O also lodged a complaint with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) and HSBCs chief executive, following a subject access 
request he had originally pursued on 5 July 2020.
HSBC issued a further reply to the complaint in late November 2020. It cross referenced Mr 
Os detailed submissions. I will not set that out in full here, but in summary it said:
it could not locate precise sales documentation, but on other information it had seen 
from that period, life assurance was a condition of mortgage lending;
in 2003 and 2008, a protection policy wasnt a condition for new lending because 
HSBC had changed its policy requirement from late 2000 onwards;
it could not verify or make findings on what Mr O and Mrs O had been told verbally in 
1989;
a staff discount would have been available for the cover, but it did not mean that the 
policy was mandatory;
it did not agree that Mr and Mrs O wouldnt have had the option to seek their 
mortgage lending or policy elsewhere;
death in service benefits were not a suitable alternative to life cover running 
alongside the mortgage;
the PPI complaint was an unrelated matter;
the delay in handling this complaint was because the CMC had not made clear there 
were two complaints or given a reference for the life policy;
it was only when Mr O followed the matter up himself in August 2020 that the specific 
concerns were put to HSBC;
it disagreed that the offer of £100 was unreasonable for any service failings;
in respect of Mr Os concerns about disclosure of information, it supplied him with the 
internal customer information findings (CIF) document dated November 2020 which 
comprised HSBCs notes and conclusions on the complaint. 
The complaint was also referred to this service in October 2020 where Mr O made 
significantly detailed further submissions, reiterating the subject of the complaint and his 
concerns over HSBCs further response which came at a difficult time with his health. 
Before and after this referral, a series of correspondence continued between Mr O and 
HSBC relating to his and Mrs Os data rights, missing information and their concerns over 
the time HSBC had taken to provide evidence. The subject access request was responded 
to by HSBC in December 2020 and March 2021. It also issued a second complaint 
response. It agreed to pay a further £550 in compensation for the poor service Mr and Mrs O 
had experienced. However, Mr O said information in the form of calls remained outstanding.  
Mr and Mrs O remained dissatisfied and much of this centred on Mr Os unhappiness with 
the information set out in the CIF document. He also said that because the policy had ended 
in 2014, he and Mrs O no longer had any MPP cover. Mr O noted that if HSBC had replied 
within the 30 days it should have, he and Mrs O would have been spared six months of 
upset at a time when Mr O had been very unwell. He felt that they ought to be awarded a 
total distress payment in the region of £2,000 to £5,000 as well as the £3,100 of premiums 
they had paid being returned with interest.  
The CIF document was later rectified and reissued by a different complaint manager at 
HSBC in June 2021.  
A third complaint response letter was also issued to Mr O in June 2021. HSBC said it had 
agreed to revise its existing offer of £650 for service failings to £2,000. It said this was for 
failing to treat Mr and Mrs O fairly in terms of the time taken on their complaint journey, 
which had caused Mr O particular worry when he was suffering with poor health. It also said 
that the offer would remain open to Mr and Mrs O irrespective of the referral of their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Although it upheld the service aspect of the complaint, HSBC said its view was otherwise 
unchanged about the rest of the complaint, which it did not uphold. 
Mr O said he and Mrs O were still unhappy with the service they had received though they 
accepted receipt of the £2,000 compensation. They explained how the continued delays by 
HSBC had increased their anxiety levels exponentially. They also said that Mr Os stress 
became heightened every time he had to deal with HSBC. 
In January 2022, HSBC completed Mr Os subject access request in relation to supplying 
outstanding unencrypted call recordings. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators in February 2022. She felt it 
should succeed, in part. In respect of the sale of the policy she said Mr and Mrs O now 
understood that their policy was a condition of the mortgage lending at that time and so it 
had not been unreasonable for HSBC to require the MPP in order to offer the lending.  
She also did not think HSBC ought to have reviewed the MPP in either 2003 or 2008. In 
2008, no advice was received from HSBC regarding the change to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage 
type, so she didnt think HSBC should have done anything at that time. 
In 2003, Mr and Mrs O were relocating and increased their mortgage liability. On balance, it 
appeared that there was not advice given to Mr and Mrs O about their mortgage, and 
consequently the investigator did not think HSBC had unfairly prevented them from 
reviewing, cancelling or amending the MPP at that time. In fact, HSBC could not have 
cancelled the policy  that would have to be an instruction from Mr and Mrs O.  
In terms of the rectification of data held about Mr and Mrs O, the investigator did not think 
HSBC had behaved unfairly. She said it had responded and reissued the CIF document that 
Mr O had said contained errors. She didnt believe it was fair to require HSBC to do anything 
further.  
Finally, she felt that HSBC had unreasonably caused delays when dealing with Mr and Mrs 
Os subject access request. Mr O had spent a considerable amount of time chasing HSBC, 
meaning he didnt receive the proper response to his request for some eighteen months. 
She felt the prolonging of the complaint had caused Mr O distress and a payment of £450 
was warranted in the circumstances. 
HSBC accepted the investigators findings. 
After further discussions with the investigator Mr O said he and Mrs O disagreed with the 
findings. He supplied cross-referenced comments to the investigators view, totalling 29 
pages. I will not be setting this document out in full here. In summary, Mr O said:
they did not accept that the complaint about the sale of the policy was resolved;
they remain of the view that the policy was mis-sold to them;
HSBC breached FCA, ICO and DPA principles;
even if the policy was a condition of the lending, they still had the right to receive 
information in a clear and non-misleading way;
the inaccuracies remain in the CIF document;
in 1989, HSBC did not tell Mr and Mrs O that the MPP was a condition of the lending;
nor did it tell them they could seek the cover or the lending elsewhere;
the events of the discussion with the branch manager at the time are a matter of 
record;
there was no explanation or advice given on the terms and restrictions of the policy;this was Mr and Mrs Os first ever mortgage and they had no family history of 
mortgage lending;
at the time the financial institutions were commission driven;
there was no internet access at the time, so he and Mrs O had to place reliance on 
what they were told;
they were not told of the difference between the MPP and their death in service 
benefits;
until recently they assumed the policy was unnecessary as their death in service 
benefits were appropriate cover for the mortgage;
in effect HSBC has received a free pass on the 1989 mis-selling;
this is particularly since limited documentary evidence exists from the time of the 
sale;
however, Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the FCA Handbook say that 
firms should recognise that oral evidence may be sufficient and not dismiss evidence 
from the complainant solely because it is not supported by documentary proof;
now Mr and Mrs O have the further information, they feel the investigator ought to 
reconsider this point;
in 2003, they were denied the opportunity to make an informed choice despite 
increasing their mortgage lending;
nor were they told that an MPP was no longer a condition of the lending;
likewise, they still had an information need in 2008 and this wasnt met;
these events should be assessed on a probability and reasonability basis;
they believe the question this service ought to ask itself in respect of the 2003 sale is:
oIn 2003 given what they now know, that MPP was no longer a condition of the 
sale, would Mr and Mrs O still have purchased an MPP or life policy cover at 
the level of £30K, when they knew that the new mortgage was increased to 
£110K?
they question why would they have retained an insufficient policy once they 
remortgaged?;
just because the relocation package was a non-advised process, does not mean that 
the mortgage sale in 2003 was also non-advised;
this is plainly untrue and contrary to events and facts of this complaint;
it must follow that their protection needs in 2003 were not properly assessed;
they broadly agree with the investigator that the 2008 sale was non-advised but their 
view is that in the case of a non-advised sale, a responsible lender is still required to 
provide the very basic of information needs and it should have addressed the 
existence of the MPP policy because this would have triggered them to take action;
in respect of the production of information, HSBC is in breach of ICO guidelines;
under the right to rectification within relevant data protection law, there is no one 
single CIF document which contains all the inaccuracies identified;
just because established procedures were in place doesnt mean they were followed;
this is the reason HSBC has already paid out £2,000 for service failings;
in 1989, 2003 and 2008 Mr and Mrs O had clear information needs, but HSBC failed 
to deliver this very basic information in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading, 
with substantial consequences;
Mr O worked for HSBC for 28 years, from the 1980s - however, up to 2003 his retail 
banking experience was limited so he and Mrs O did not have the knowledge 
assumed by HSBC;
their associated payment protection insurance complaint was upheld;
they realise with hindsight that they may have been too trusting;
they also believe the £450 proposed figure should be revisited. Mr O gave a detailed summary of his employment history in relation to his understanding at 
the relevant times complained about. He also set out thirteen questions (which I will not 
repeat here) for consideration, principally concerning HSBCs complaint handling process.  
Our investigator told Mr and Mrs O that she was not persuaded to change her view on the 
complaint. She said there was no new information for her to consider. She reiterated that 
she did not agree HSBC was obliged to bring up the existing MPP in 2003 or 2008. In terms 
of the £450 compensation, she felt this figure was an appropriate amount to reflect the 
impact the delay of the subject access information. 
She also noted that she did not believe she was required to make further findings on the CIF 
document HSBC had produced, or the right to rectification as this had been actioned by 
HSBC. Mr O was free to still disagree with it, but it did not relate to any findings of fact by the 
investigator.  
Finally, she said she noted Mr and Mrs O now wanted the 1989 sale to be considered. 
However, she said that on general grounds prior to 2001, HSBC required protection policies 
to be taken out as a condition of mortgage lending. She couldnt say what was said in person 
in 1989, but the policy taken out was suitable for Mr and Mrs O as a means of protection for 
the event either one of them had passed away during the mortgage term.  
Mr and Ms O still disagreed. Mr O reiterated that the FCA guidance required businesses to 
treat all customers fairly and provide them with clear, fair information when possible; HSBC 
hadn't done this in 1989 and 2003. He also said if HSBC had told them that the MPP wasn't 
needed in 2003, then they would have cancelled the older policy. 
Mr O also requested the opportunity to submit a further report of another 17 pages. As 
before, I wont be repeating the report here. I have read the comments in full. Much of the 
report reiterates Mr and Mrs Os submissions as summarised above and Mr O confirms it to 
be a consolidation of their view on the matter. The additional points not already made 
elsewhere were:
Mr Os recollections were far more specific than the average customer, given his 
specific financial services employment history;
they feel the ombudsman ought to make determinations on whether the sales were 
advised or not, if the FCA guidance was breached, whether the rectification requests 
were actioned to the level that is required by GDPR and whether HSBC complied 
with all regulatory and legal guidelines, and give as much insight as possible into this;
rather than focus on the detailed and personal explanations from Mr O, this service 
has preferred the weighting of the evidence from HSBC;
no negative inferences should be drawn from the fact that Mr and Mrs O havent 
retained paperwork or that they retained the policy;
our investigator said that Mr and Mrs Os policy would still have paid out if required;
but from 2003 there was a significant shortfall in mortgage cover and therefore the 
policy would have been considered unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Os needs and 
personal circumstances at the time;
so leaving an £80,000 deficit in life cover isnt acting in Mr and Mrs Os best interests 
anyway;
nor does it demonstrate that HSBC provided the very basic of information needs to 
Mr and Mrs O to enable them to make an informed decision as to whether they 
should cancel or amend the policy;
HSBC had the information about the MPP before it but chose not to remind Mr and 
Mrs O about it;the impact of feeling disbelieved and having unfounded views submitted by HSBC 
has caused Mr O to feel anxious;
in turn, this has made him feel that he has to document everything so his and Mrs 
Os views are not unfairly misrepresented;
the FCA guidelines previously referred to required HSBC to consider whether 
omission of relevant fact will result in information given to the customer being 
insufficient, unclear, unfair or misleading;
again, if it wasnt HSBCs responsibility to remind Mr and Mrs O that a MPP was no 
longer a condition of lending in 2003 then whose responsibility was it?
insufficient weighting has been applied to Mr and Mrs Os oral evidence, reasonability 
tests and balance of probability. 
Mr and Mrs O also gave a timeline of events to explain how long it had taken to progress the 
complaint with HSBC, and their frustrations that rectification requests remain outstanding.  
HSBC did not have any further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans decision. I 
can see Mr O has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both HSBC and our 
service. He has supplied comprehensive written accounts of his view on his and Mrs Os 
complaint at what I can see has been a difficult time, and I thank him for doing so.   
I know that this process has been upsetting for Mr O and I do appreciate the vulnerabilities 
he has highlighted. I do not intend to make matters worse for him, but I also wont be 
addressing every individual submission Mr and Mrs O have made. Nor will I be providing my 
findings on the basis that they have asked. 
I am not required to comment on each point or make the specific determinations that theyve 
requested  and, some of the points are not within the scope of this service, which Ill explain 
further below. However, I can assure Mr O that I have reviewed all of the evidence on file. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances, and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider are the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
Having looked at everything, I also believe this complaint should be upheld on the basis that 
a payment should be made to Mr and Mrs O for the trouble and inconvenience theyve been 
caused by HSBC. I do not otherwise agree that the complaint should succeed.  
I realise that Mr and Mrs O have explained that their PPI complaint was upheld. But that has 
no bearing on this complaint as they are separate products and distinct complaints. I do not 
agree that an inference should be drawn merely because another complaint has succeeded.   
I wont be issuing any findings on the way in which HSBC has handled the complaint for two 
reasons. One, we are not the regulator, as Mr O is aware, that role falls to the FCA. And two, 
complaints to this service do need to be about specific regulated activities or any ancillary 
activities, including advice, carried on by a business in relation to regulated activities. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity in its own right and does not fall within our 
jurisdiction.  
Turning to the 1989 sale, I do not believe that the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs O 
was unfair or unreasonable. Neither party disputes that at the time, HSBC required term 
assurance to be taken out alongside mortgage borrowing as it was a condition it applied to 
its lending criteria. What Mr and Mrs O say now is that HSBC didnt make them aware that 
this was the case, or they might have sought the borrowing or insurance elsewhere. Their 
recollection is that the environment was highly-pressured and the culture was sales driven.  
I accept that given his employment with HSBC, Mr O would have a greater recall of the way 
in which it operated in 1989. HSBC does not hold any documentary evidence about the sale 
but I dont find that unreasonable given the amount of time that has passed and relevant 
laws around the timescale within which data can be retained. 
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Os recollection, and I can see how they have gone 
into considerable detail about what happened at the time. However, it is not the case that a 
complaint will or will not succeed based on whichever party has the ability to provide relevant 
documentation, or that any burden of proof shifts on that basis. In fact, that could work 
against some consumers where businesses may have the capacity to retain data securely 
and more easily. 
Along with Mr Os submissions I must also weigh up what HSBC says. Where there is 
conflicting evidence, Ill decide what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
In my view, I cannot see why Mr and Mrs O would not have been told about the need for life 
assurance alongside the lending  it was a condition across all HSBC residential mortgages 
at the time and though Mr O worked in a different part of HSBC, I am not persuaded that the 
adviser would have known this was the case but fail to tell Mr and Mrs O about it.   
Even if I were to accept that Mr and Mrs O were misled, I dont believe theyd have likely 
sought their lending or MPP elsewhere. The policy had a 15% discount as Mr O worked for 
HSBC. And, provisions Mrs and Mr O said they had in place from employment benefits were 
not comparable or as directly suitable as taking out life assurance for the lending. 
Having suitable life assurance for a mortgage debt is a sensible step to take. However, 
death in service benefits are not generally considered a suitable means of ensuring a 
mortgage is protected in the event of death, since employment benefits can be involuntarily 
lost. 
Contrastingly, the MPP matched the term, type and value of the mortgage proposed. Even if 
it had not been a condition of the lending, I believe it would have been a suitable proposal for 
the adviser to have recommended to Mr and Mrs O; I say that noting that when applying for 
their mortgage in 1989, they didnt have any existing  life assurance cover in place.  
The policy ran for its entire term. Had Mr or Mrs O needed to pursue a claim for death 
benefit, they could have done so. I would not therefore recommend that the premiums be 
returned to Mr and Mrs O in any event, as they have had the benefit of the life insurance.  
By 2003, the requirement for a life policy alongside mortgage lending was no longer a 
business requirement of HSBCs. Mr O says at this time when he and Mrs O increased their 
mortgage under HSBCs relocation scheme for employees, they were given mortgage 
advice. HSBC says this was not the case and the arranging of the mortgage for such 
schemes was done on a non-advised basis.  As before, there isnt determinative evidence available which would confirm whether the sale 
was advised or non-advised. But, I dont believe this is material to the issues Mr O brings 
now which is that HSBC failed in its duties under FCA guidelines in terms of ensuring he and 
Mrs O had clear information about the policy theyd taken out 14 years earlier. He says this 
meant he and Mrs O were denied the opportunity to take action about it. 
Nonetheless, I do not believe the most likely version of events, on balance, was that advice 
was given. If there had been some form of advised sale in respect of the mortgage, I would 
reasonably expect the adviser to have recommended life cover for the shortfall when taking 
out the new mortgage. Mr O accepts this  he says that if HSBC had acted correctly he and 
Mrs O would either have increased their cover (presumably by means of a top-up policy) or 
cancelled it, since it was no longer a condition of lending.  
However, no policy was taken out. So, following through Mr Os arguments now, no redress 
is due for the sale of a policy that did not happen. By that I mean no refund of premiums 
could be made, which is the compensation Mr and Mrs O sought for the 1989 policy. 
Alternatively Mr and Mrs O say that they would have cancelled the 1989 policy, but it must 
be the case that by 2003 they knew they could have mortgage lending approved without the 
condition of life assurance  as the previous policy only matched the old mortgages sum 
assured and had no bearing on the new, increased borrowing. 
I know Mr O questions that if wasnt HSBCs responsibility to remind him and Mrs O that a 
MPP was no longer a condition of lending in 2003 then I ought to establish whose 
responsibility it was. But as Ive said above, I believe Mr and Mrs O likely knew or should 
have known that this was the case, because they did not take out any further policy with a 
corresponding new sum assured to match the additional lending.
This principle also applies to the 2008 sale. The change to the mortgage type was not 
completed under advice from HSBC. I note Mr O accepts this. I cannot therefore conclude 
that it ought to have done anything differently at that time in respect of making Mr and Mrs O 
aware of the MPP policy they held from 1989, given it was not party to the re-mortgage. 
In respect of the other matters, I will not make any findings about whether the rectification 
requests in the CIF document were actioned by HSBC in accordance with GDPR or whether 
HSBC complied with regulatory and legal guidelines regarding data protection in any wider 
sense. That is not my role; that falls to the Information Commissioners Office and Mr O has 
already pursued the matter with that organisation.  
Likewise, though Mr O has set out all of the relevant regulatory guidelines where he believes 
these have been breached, we are not the FCA. Whilst I have taken into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, we do 
not act as a regulator. As Ive already said above, my remit is to set out what I believe to be 
fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances against that framework.  
On that basis, I believe further compensation is warranted for the ongoing service issues in 
respect of subject access that Mr O required. Mr O had to chase HSBC repeatedly from July 
2020 to January 2022 to obtain telephone recordings, before these were eventually supplied 
in a format that he could access. And this has clearly caused a great degree of frustration 
and upset to him, as he believed these were material to pursuing the complaint at this 
service and therefore relevant to my findings here. 
While I dont agree that the calls would have prevented the material grounds of complaint 
from continuing (noting that complaints about complaint handling arent a regulated activity of themselves), I realise Mr O did not appreciate that distinction. This heightened his 
concerns and compounded his need to cross-reference and document every communication 
with HSBC as he felt his views would not otherwise be properly disclosed to this service.  
Though any findings about breach of data protection laws are a matter for the ICO, the 
extensive time taken to resolve the matter has naturally caused Mr and Mrs O additional 
upset, and I therefore agree a further payment ought to be made to them for that.   
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs O a further £450 in addition to the compensation payment 
already made and accepted by the parties to reflect the significant inconvenience and 
disruption that required many months of effort for Mr O to sort out. I am pleased to note that 
HSBC agrees to make this payment, should the decision be accepted. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs O £450 for the upset 
theyve been caused when dealing with their request to obtain information held about them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman