DRN-3879163
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help when he sent funds to one
of their customers accounts as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2020 Mr H agreed to purchase a boat that hed seen advertised online. He believed he
was dealing with a company who would retain the funds on his behalf until the boat was
delivered and he confirmed he was happy with its condition, at which point the funds would
be released to the seller. Mr H made two payments each for €12,500, both of which 
credited the same account which was held with HSBC.
When Mr H later learned hed been the victim of a scam, he complained. The evidence hed
gathered through his own bank showed that there was a mismatch between the name hed
put on his payment instruction and the named account holder. As such he thinks HSBC are
at fault and ought to have prevented his loss.
HSBC didnt agree that they should provide a refund and the complaint was considered by
one of our Investigators. She recommended that the complaint should be upheld and that
HSBC should reimburse Mr H. HSBC disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a
decision.
In November 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. I know this will
be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that the name Mr H provided to his bank for both payments is different to
that of the accountholder into whose account the funds were credited. But there is no
obligation for HSBC to check this when crediting the payments to their account.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) 2017 say at 90(1) Where a payment order is
executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment order is deemed to have
been correctly executed Further to this at 90(5) it goes on to explain that where additional
information is provided, the payment service provider is only liable for execution of the
payment in accordance with the unique identifiers provided. In these circumstances, the
unique identifiers were the IBAN number provided.
Whilst I can understand why Mr H thinks HSBC ought to have identified and questioned this
at the time  I cant say there was any failing by HSBC when they didnt do so and this isnt a
basis upon which I can ask them to do more. But as the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he
would like a HSBC to reimburse him, Ive gone on to consider if there are other reasons why
they ought to.
Im satisfied that HSBC correctly followed their account opening procedures, carried out
checks to verify the identity of the named account holder and did their due diligence when
opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably
couldve alerted HSBC that the account they were opening would later be used fraudulently.
So Im satisfied they didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Hs loss when opening the
account.
Ive also considered the activity on the account both before and shortly after the incoming
payments from Mr H. There arent any failings by HSBC in relation to the account activity
which I think would have prevented any of Mr Hs money from leaving the account. Im also
satisfied that HSBC responded appropriately once they were put on notice that Mr Hs
payments had been made as the result of a scam. And by this point, his money had all been
spent and there was nothing left to recover
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr H responded with some comments that 
Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says according to HSBCs letter of 25 November 2020 that the account belongs to 
another bank. He also wants HSBC to provide him with the name of the bank so he can 
report this to the police. Having read HSBCs complaint response (dated 25 November 
2020), the part of the letter I assume Mr H might be referring to says: However, we had 
contacted the banks that the funds were sent to, and would respond if we were able to get 
any back.  If that is the case, what I think HSBC said in this regard relates to the banks to 
which his funds were transferred after arriving in the account held with them. 
There isnt any basis upon which I can direct HSBC to inform Mr H directly of either 
information relating to their accountholder or about where his money was sent on to. Im 
confident that HSBC would respond to a request from the police to share information, were 
they to receive one. 
Mr H also says more recently he transferred a small amount to the same account hed 
previously paid, and that this was returned to him. Ive considered this but it doesnt change 
my mind about the actions HSBC took in relation to the payments as a result of the scam. 
HSBCs complaint response said that theyd taken appropriate action against their customer 
which may explain why the later payment was returned. 
Mr H also re-iterated his position that HSBC failed to do due diligence when opening the 
account in question. My thoughts on this are unchanged from what I explained in my 
provisional decision. I dont agree there were failings by HSBC in relation to the opening of 
the account. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr H lost such a significant sum to cruel scammers. But as I
dont think HSBC reasonably could have prevented Mr Hs loss or done more to assist in its
recovery, Im not going to tell them that they need to do more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman