DRN-3142510
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, because their online banking 
system coerced her into switching to paper-free statements.
What happened
Ms B accessed her Halifax account online to make a bill payment. Ms B contends that at that 
time, Halifaxs online system had been changed so that it wasnt possible to proceed without 
ticking a box which switched the account to paper-free statements. Ms B felt that she had no 
other option but to tick the box in order to proceed.
This was problematic for Ms B as the account was a joint account with her ex-husband and 
the terms of a consent order included that paper statements should be sent to both account 
holders. Subsequently, Halifax sent a letter to both Ms B and her ex-husband confirming the 
switch to paper-free statements. Ms Bs ex-husband reacted angrily to this, and he contacted 
Ms B and accused of her of theft and threatened to take her to court. Ms B wasnt happy that 
Halifax had put her in this position, so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Ms Bs complaint. They explained that while they were promoting the 
switch to paper-free statements, the option had remained available for Ms B to have 
continued to have received paper statements, and that as such it hadnt been the case that 
she needed to switch to paper-free statements to enable the bill payment to be made. 
Because of this, Halifax didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But, while they sympathised with Ms Bs 
difficult personal circumstances, they also noted that it hadnt been necessary for Ms B to 
have switched the account to paper-free statements in order to access and use her account 
online, and that the option to continue to receive paper statements had been present. 
Ms B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that changing to paper-free statements on the account caused    
Ms B a degree of distress such that Im assured that if Ms B had been aware that she had 
the option to not change to paper-free statements, but instead to have continued to receive 
paper statements on the account, Im certain that she would have done so.
But having reviewed the options that would have been available to Ms B when she logged 
onto her account online to make the bill payment, while it was the case that Halifax were 
clearly promoting paper-free statements and bringing the option for their customers to 
change to paper-free statements to the fore, its also evident that Halifaxs customers, 
including Ms B, retained the right to not change to paper free statements and to elect to 
continue to receive paper statements on their account.
The options that Ms B would have needed to select to continue to receive paper statements 
have been described by both Halifax and our investigator in their respective correspondence 
with Ms B, and as such I wont repeat them here. However, given that Im satisfied that Ms B 
could have elected to continue to receive paper statements, it follows from this that I dont 
feel that I can fairly or reasonably hold Halifax accountable for any events that took place 
because of Ms B changing the statement preference on her account.
Ms B may contend that the option to change to paper-free statements had been made 
prominent, whereas the option to continue to receive paper statements had not. I can 
appreciate Ms Bs position here, but I dont feel that its unreasonable for a business such as 
Halifax, which generates a large amount of paper correspondence, to have actively 
promoted paper-free statements and encouraged its customers to switch to them.
I can sympathise with Ms B here, and I acknowledge the difficult and distressing personal 
position that she found herself in because of the switch to paper-free statements on the 
account. But, ultimately, Im satisfied that the switch to paper-free statements wasnt 
mandated or insisted upon by Halifax, and that the option for Ms B not to have made the 
switch had been available to her.
This means that I dont feel that I can conclude that Halifax have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, and I say this because while I acknowledge that Ms B might not have 
recognised at the time that the option to continue to receive paper statements was available 
to her, Im satisfied that that option was available to her. 
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the 
outcome that Ms B was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman