DRN-3170134
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc gave him unsuitable investment advice in 2010. He 
complains that his attitude to risk wasnt established properly, and he was sold an 
investment that was too risky for him. 
Mr W is being represented by a claims management company. 
What happened
In January 2010 Mr W received investment advice from Lloyds. He completed a fact find with 
the adviser at the time, and this showed:
He was retired with an annual pension of £12,000 and did not have a mortgage. 
He had around £45,000 in savings and ISA products, and most of this money was 
readily accessible to him. 
He also had around £3,500 in a capital protected ISA.
He had around £300 additional surplus income every month
Overall, he had invested 90% of his money in secure investments and 10% in 
cautious. 
His objective was to invest £3,000 for growth for a 5 to 10 year period. 
He had no expenditure planned in the short term and had plenty of accessible funds 
should he need them. 
He answered a number of questions about his attitude to risk, which broadly showed:
He was prepared to take some risk with his money in order to mitigate the impact of 
inflation and generate additional growth.
Although the stability of his money was important, he indicated it was equally 
important that he limit the impact of inflation on it over the longer term  and indicated 
that growth of his money was at least as important to him as maintaining it. 
He was concerned about short term fluctuations in his money and was not prepared 
to take risks at all costs in order to achieve capital growth, even though he indicated 
hed accept ups and downs in the short term in order to achieve potentially better 
growth over the long term. 
Overall, Lloyds concluded that his attitude to risk for this investment was balanced. It 
therefore advised him to invest the £3,000 in a stocks and shares ISA, and specifically, in a 
Balanced Growth Portfolio fund. 
The suitability letter says that Mr W was happy with his existing capital protected investment, 
but that he now wished to invest in a product that does not restrict the potential maximum 
return he could receive. 
Broadly speaking, as at 2011, this particular fund had an equal split between 50% equities 
(of which the majority were UK based) and 50% fixed interest (of which the majority were 
UK). Mr W surrendered the investment for just over £4,000 in 2016. 
In 2021, Mr W complained about the advice he received with the help of a claims 
management company (CMC). In short, he felt the advice he received was unsuitable for 
him and his attitude to risk hadnt been assessed correctly. He said he had a cautious 
attitude to risk at the time, and this investment therefore carried with it more risk than he was 
willing to take. Lloyds didnt agree that the advice it gave Mr W was unsuitable, and so Mr W 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she considered that Lloyds had appropriately assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk and 
explored his reasons for investing. She didnt think there was anything inherently wrong with 
Mr W having a slightly higher approach to risk in 2010 than he did in 2008  and she 
considered that he was clearly able to afford the risk of the investment. She thought the 
evidence showed that Mr Ws objectives were driven by a desire for capital growth, and 
disappointment with the interest rates he was receiving on his deposits. And so she 
considered the fund was in line with his objective of capital growth and balanced attitude to 
risk. 
The CMC, on behalf of Mr W, didnt agree. It said that having a cautious attitude to risk didnt 
mean that Mr W could only invest in deposit based accounts  he couldve invested in 
different types of fixed interest securities which, in its view, wouldve given him the higher 
returns he was seeking. And it didnt agree that it was reasonable to accept that Mr Ws 
attitude to risk had gone from cautious in 2008 to balanced in 2010  it said there was no 
record of why Mr W had changed his approach to investing. And it said that he should not 
have been advised to take on more risk on retirement because he had no means to 
replenish his savings if things went wrong. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said.
In looking at the advice Mr W received from Lloyds, its important that I clarify that I need not 
be satisfied that the investment Lloyds recommended Mr W invest in was the most suitable, 
or the only suitable investment for him at the time. Clearly there were a range of suitable 
investments which were available at the time for Mr W and any of those couldve been 
recommended. 
I need to decide whether, given the circumstances which Lloyds knew at the time about 
Mr W, it was fair and reasonable for it to conclude that investing in the Balanced Growth 
Portfolio fund was suitable for him. 
In that regard, Ive taken into account the requirements laid out by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) as they were 
in 2010. In particular, COBS 9 outlines the requirements for firms providing advice and the 
steps they need to take in order to ensure that the advice is suitable for their client. 
In doing so, there are a number of areas where Im not persuaded by the CMCs comments. 
Firstly, Im not persuaded this investment wasnt affordable for Mr W. Its clear to me that this 
was only a small proportion of Mr Ws overall liquid assets  just over 6%. Furthermore, 
given his declared disposable income, he wouldve been able to replenish this money within 10 months should he suffer a total loss of capital which, given the type of fund and the 
equity/bond split, was very unlikely. So Im satisfied this case is not about Mr Ws ability to 
afford the risk or the investment at the time. 
The crux of the dispute in this case appears to be whether or not Mr W in fact held a 
balanced attitude to risk in 2010. The CMC suggests its unlikely he had changed his 
approach to risk since it had been established in 2008  but Im not persuaded it has really 
explained why. It seems to me theres an assumption that the adviser ought to have 
challenged Mr W on why he now had a balanced attitude to risk, when two years prior it 
was cautious. But Im not persuaded by this argument  in my view the advisers role was to 
establish what Mr Ws approach to risk was in 2010 with the money he was looking to invest, 
and ensure that he captured all of Mr Ws priorities and objectives before making his 
recommendation. 
In looking at the fact find, the suitability letter and the documented discussions with Mr W, 
Im satisfied this is what happened. Bearing in mind that in 2010 Mr W already had one 
capital protected investment (which he had been advised to take out in 2008), as well as 
substantial deposits, I think its entirely plausible that he was looking to take some additional 
risk with this sum  and it coincides with the documented discussion he had with his advisor 
about his desire to achieve better growth than he was receiving at the time. 
Nevertheless, my role isnt to determine which label is more accurate in describing Mr Ws 
approach to risk at the time. Instead, Ive considered all of the information Mr W provided 
and compared that to the investment which was recommended to him. 
In doing so, I dont agree with the CMC that the advice provided by Lloyds was unsuitable. In 
my view, the evidence shows that Mr W was keen take a slightly higher amount of risk with 
this particular investment, precisely because he recognised he already had a capital 
protected investment and plenty of cash deposits. The answers he gave to the risk 
questionnaire all show that Mr W thought that the stability of his money and the prospects of 
increasing growth over the long term were of equal importance to him. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ws age and the fact that he had retired. I agree in principle that 
on occasion this can be a time when an investor might be looking to take less risk with their 
money, or make more cautious decisions. But in the specific circumstances of this case, I 
dont think it was unsuitable for Lloyds to recommend the Balanced Growth Portfolio fund. I 
say this because:
When looking at Mr Ws liquid assets overall, its clear that he had a significant 
amount already in cash, and a small amount in a capital protected investment. I dont 
agree that it was inherently unsuitable for Lloyds to consider adding a fund which 
contained both equities and fixed interest securities to Mr Ws existing assets. 
The fund itself in my view was in line with the type of investment Mr W was after  
that is a balance between equities and fixed interest. Looking at the funds makeup at 
the time, it shows that it had:
o50% overall in bonds  35% UK bonds, 10% overseas bonds and only 5% 
high yield bonds. 
o50% overall in equities  35% UK equities and 15% overseas equities. 
The adviser clearly took into account all of Mr Ws existing investments before 
recommending this particular fund  and therefore based his decision on the fact that 
Mr W had very limited exposure to any risk, and was only looking to invest a small 
proportion of his overall liquid assets. The fact that only 50% of the fund was 
exposed to equities means that only a very small proportion of Mr Ws liquid funds 
was in fact invested in the stock market. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to conclude 
that investing in the Balanced Growth Portfolio fund was suitable for Mr W. It had established 
that Mr W was both willing and able to take more risk with this sum than he had previously, 
and it recommended an investment that attempted to achieve this objective through an equal 
mix of equities and fixed interest securities. I therefore dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about 
the investment advice he received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman