DRN-4256402
The complaint
A company which Ill call L complains that New Wave Capital Limited (trading as Capital on 
Tap) treated them unfairly when reviewing their credit facility. 
The complaint is brought on Ls behalf by their director, Mrs M. 
What happened
In January 2020, L applied for a credit facility with New Wave which was approved with a 
£1,000 limit. New Wave then electronically sent Mrs M the facility agreement and related 
documents to sign. These were signed and accepted on the same day.  
In June 2020, after reviewing Ls account, New Wave increased the companys credit limit 
from £1,000 to £12,000. 
In November 2020, L contacted New Wave to say that they were unable to meet that 
months contractual repayment. New Wave agreed an arrangement to pay with L but said 
that the company wouldnt be able to access any further funding at that time. 
L made its repayment in November and wanted to use the rest of the credit facility. However, 
New Wave explained it couldnt grant this whilst there was adverse information on Ls credit 
file and agreed to review Ls account again after theyd made the next couple of repayments. 
L made the December repayment, but not January, so their account remained suspended. L 
didnt think this was fair, so they made a complaint.
New Wave didnt uphold the complaint. It said that although the adverse credit markers had 
now been removed, L hadnt met their contractual repayments from January 2023 to March 
2023. This meant Ls account had gone three months in arrears, so New Wave had taken 
the decision to close Ls account. It had then approached Mrs M for repayment under the 
personal guarantee. 
L remained unhappy. They said they hadnt requested the increase in the limit from New 
Wave, and that it was unfair to suspend this increase limit after the company had used it. 
They also didnt think it was fair that this had been reflected on the companys credit file. So, 
they asked this service to look into their complaint.
Mrs M has also raised a complaint with this service that New Wave have treated her unfairly 
by pursuing her personally for Ls debt. She also told us that her personal credit file has 
been impacted because L didnt meet their repayments. As that complaint relate to Mrs M 
personally, rather than L, it has been addressed under a separate complaint reference.   
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that New Wave 
had made it clear that Ls credit limit could change and had given the company notice of the 
increase. She also noted that L hadnt said they didnt want to go ahead with the increase 
either. The investigator also didnt think New Wave had done anything wrong when it had 
suspended Ls limits because the company hadnt met its repayments and allowing L to use 
more funds simply increased their debt further. She also said that L had already used around 
£11,000 of the £12,000 limit so she wasnt persuaded the suspension had a significant 
impact. And that New Wave was required to report any adverse credit information on its 
customers accounts, so it hadnt done anything wrong.
L didnt agree. They said that their trading had been affected because New Wave had 
withdrawn their facility without warning. And it was unreasonable to say this could be 
reinstated if they met the new few monthly repayments as they then had no funding to trade. 
So, they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint and the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs M feels strongly about Ls complaint, but Im sorry to disappoint her as theres not 
much more that I can add to what our investigator has already said. 
Mrs M says New Wave treated L unfairly firstly because it increased the companys limit 
from £1,000 to £12,000 without warning. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive seen the 
terms of Ls agreement with New Wave which says that it will review their account from time 
to time and see if the level of lending is appropriate or if further credit can be provided  as it 
was in this case  so New Wave has acted in line with the agreement terms. 
Furthermore, New Wave has also provided a copy of the email which was sent to Mrs M 
telling her that Ls limit had been increased to £12,000 in June 2022. The email also says 
that if L wishes to keep the original limit that they can do so by just replying to the email. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs M wanted to decline the limit increase on Ls 
behalf, and I think its likely they knew of the limit increase as the company had almost 
reached their £1,000 limit when the increase was applied, and they subsequently spent 
around £6,000 within a very short time of this increase. So, Im not persuaded New Wave 
treated L unfairly here.  
Mrs M then says that New Wave essentially caused L to close because they had no access 
to funds, but I dont think thats fair. Ive looked at the agreement terms which say that New 
Wave can suspend credit limits if there is an increased risk that L was unable to make their 
repayment. Given that L told New Wave they couldnt make their November 2022 
repayment, albeit that it agreed for this to be made a week later, I think the limit suspension 
was reasonable. 
Ive also seen that New Wave did review Ls account with a view to reinstating their credit 
limit, however there were issues with their credit file so it couldnt be reinstated until this was 
resolved. And when the credit file issues were corrected, L then didnt make its contractual 
repayment so the review process started again. From November 2022, L didnt get to a point 
when the credit file issues had been resolved and the account wasnt in arrears, so I dont 
think New Wave acted unfairly here by not reinstating Ls credit limit. I think its also worth 
noting here that Mrs M told us that shed only opened the account as a contingency fund for 
her cashflow. This implies that the New Wave facility wasnt Ls only source of funding and 
therefore Im not persuaded the removal of the remaining £1,000 credit limit caused the 
impact that Mrs M says it did.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M as I know she feels strongly about Ls complaint. But based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think New Wave has acted unreasonably here so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman