DRN-3707821
The complaint
Mr S complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank PLC 
provided unsuitable investment advice when it advised him to invest too much of his money 
in a fund that was too risky for him as a first time investor.
What happened
In 1998, Mr S invested £6,000 into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) and £4,000 into a Unit 
Trust, both in the UK Growth fund.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint that its advice wasnt suitable for him. Based on the 
information it had available in its records, Lloyds said:
Mr S would have chosen to invest as he did following discussions with its adviser
he had saved up money out his salary and he had a weekly surplus of around £50 - 
£75 at the time so Mr S couldve continued saving
its adviser would have confirmed with Mr S that he could afford to invest for the 
medium to long term and Mr S had confirmed he was aware the investment was for 
five to ten years and that he had not intended surrendering before then 
in the event, Mr S did not fully surrender the investments until 2005 suggesting that 
he hadnt needed access to his capital sooner and the advice had been suitable.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern something that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction and was satisfied, as Lloyds had given its 
consent to us investigating Mr Ss complaint, this was a complaint we could look at.
After considering the complaint, the investigator didnt feel this was a complaint she could 
recommend upholding. She mainly thought that not having investment experience didnt 
mean that only no or low risk products should be advised. Mr S had wanted greater returns 
on his savings and the UK growth fund, invested mainly in UK equities, aimed to increase 
the value of the investment over the medium to long term. Mr S hadnt had any outstanding 
liabilities and he had surplus income to withstand any losses. This led the investigator to 
conclude that she hadnt seen anything to suggest the recommendation was unsuitable and 
she felt this was borne out by the fact that Mr S didnt make any withdrawals over this period 
which showed the investment was affordable for him.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. On his behalf, the CMC reiterated the point that Mr S 
was a first time and inexperienced investor and as such the adviser had a responsibility to 
ensure that the risk he recommended was appropriate. It said the fact that Mr S held the 
plan for 7 years did not mean that the initial advice was suitable as that could only be said in 
hindsight and the complaint is about the initial advice and its suitability at that time.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
There is no point of sale paperwork and only limited information now available about Mr Ss 
financial situation when he invested in the UK growth fund, but this isnt a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint. I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds or Mr S to have kept full financial 
records from around 24 years ago.  
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not in the light of available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must 
make reasonable assumptions where necessary. What Mr S says isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold the complaint. 
At the time he took this advice, Mr S was in his early fifties and working. He was a 
homeowner with no outstanding mortgage. He had £10,000 worth of accumulated savings 
giving him a lump sum available to invest. I dont know if Mr S had any other accessible cash 
he could put his hands on quickly and without any significant penalty in the event of 
emergency spending needs arising, but this isnt enough for me to be able to say that he 
was advised to invest too much of his money. He had no outstanding liabilities and sufficient 
spare cash each month to be able to build up cash savings relatively quickly. I find the 
balance of the evidence is that Mr S had capacity to absorb investment loss and he was in a 
strong enough financial situation to be able to invest. 
It appears that Mr S wanted to earn a greater return than he could expect to receive if he just 
left his £10,000 in deposit based savings. He didnt require any income from the investment 
 he already had a monthly surplus and I havent been told about any unaddressed spending 
requirements. He was in a position to be able to invest for the medium term. I am supported 
in saying this by the fact that in the event he kept his investment for 7 years.
Lloyds doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mr S was prepared to 
take with his investment. But this isnt enough of a reason for me to conclude that a medium 
risk investment was not suitable for him. I think its likely risk wouldve been discussed as 
this was part of the advisers normal process. Ive been provided with no evidence to 
suggest that Mr S raised objection about the way the adviser recorded his risk approach at 
the time, which Id have expected Mr S to have done if he disagreed with it. I dont agree that 
a medium risk investment cannot be suitable for a first time investor. This would effectively 
deprive first time investors of the opportunity to make bigger investment gains than they 
could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me. Mr S needed to take some investment 
risk in pursuit of capital growth.  
Whilst Ive been mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight, overall, 
having considered everything, I cant fairly make a finding that Mr S was exposed to more 
risk than he wanted to take. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to fairly be able to say that Lloyds did something 
wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. For the reasons I have set out 
above, I havent seen enough to make me think that the recommended investment was too 
risky for Mr S or otherwise unsuitable. Based on all the information I've seen and been told, so far as I can see, the advice broadly met Mr Ss needs and investment objectives and was 
suitable. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr S but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman