DRN-1757555
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1994. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr S, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Bank of Scotland were required to dispose of Mr and 
Mrs Ss data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs S dont remember buying PPI, 
and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable, 
and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Bank of Scotland to have misled Mr and Mrs S 
into having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Bank of Scotland did here. 
Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular 
sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Bank of Scotland to be able to produce 
documents from the time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to 
conclude that Bank of Scotland misled Mr or Mrs S. I think its more likely that it followed a 
relatively normal sales process, offered them a choice, and that they chose PPI at the time  
though I can completely understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years. 
Its not clear whether Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI for Mr S, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Bank of Scotland if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and 
Mrs S, Ive assumed it did. That means Bank of Scotland had to check the policy was right 
for Mr S  and from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr S was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.Mr S doesnt seem to have had any other significant cover aside from the very limited 
statutory benefits, which potentially left him at serious risk. Its worth bearing in mind that if 
Mr and Mrs S had fallen behind on their mortgage repayments, they couldve lost their home. 
So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home and 
providing some peace of mind. To clarify, Bank of Scotland only needed to check the policys 
suitability for Mr S at the point of sale  it could not know what Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances 
would be many years down the line, and didnt have an obligation to continually check Mr Ss 
suitability years later.
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs S in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs S mentioned that they got a refund for a different type of PPI policy that 
covered a different type of product, and I understand why theyve raised this. But different 
policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using 
different methods, and so on. So though one given policy may have been mis-sold, it doesnt 
necessarily mean that a different one was, too. Ive explained above why Ive not found that 
this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman