DRN-3859161
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their decision to 
cancel her insurance policy before what she believed to be the 30-day deadline shed been 
given to add a new car onto the policy.
What happened
Mrs S purchased a motor insurance policy in May 2022, that was underwritten by AIC. 
Unfortunately, in June 2022, Mrs S was involved in a road traffic accident that saw her car 
written off as a total loss.
On 6 July, AIC raised a payment for the value of Mrs S car, less any excess, any 
outstanding premiums and other administrative charges. AIC e-mailed Mrs S the following 
day to inform her of this payment, explaining she had until 6 August to add a replacement 
car to her policy. This email also explained if Mrs S didnt add a replacement car by this time, 
her insurance policy would end. Mrs S has confirmed she received the payment on 11 July.
On 1 August, Mrs S called AIC to request an extension on the deadline shed been provided 
as her intended car purchase had fallen through. AIC explained an extension couldnt be 
provided, and they confirmed the 30-day deadline would end on 4 August, a differing date to 
that provided in the email. AIC also confirmed on this call that Mrs S was able to register her 
intention to add a new car by this date, even if the actual date of insurance was some time 
afterwards.
AIC received no further contact from Mrs S and so, on 5 August, Mrs S insurance policy was 
cancelled. Mrs S was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs S complained that her policy had been cancelled early, on 4 August, when it shouldve 
been cancelled on 6 August as shed been informed initially. And as Mrs S believed she 
hadnt received the full period of insurance, she thought AIC should refund her the policy 
premium AIC deducted from the valuation payment for her car that was written off.
AIC responded and upheld Mrs S complaint. They agreed that Mrs S had been given 
differing information regarding the 30-day deadline of when she had to add a replacement 
car to her policy. They also agreed that the handler Mrs S spoke to on 1 August couldve 
handled the conversation they had better. But they thought Mrs S policy was cancelled on 
the correct day, based on when Mrs S payment was raised. So, they paid Mrs S £30 to 
recognise the upset and confusion Mrs S was caused, but they didnt agree that the 
premium deducted should be refunded. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that, 
despite the confusion around the deadline date, Mrs S was given the 30 days she was 
entitled to under the terms and conditions of the insurance policy she held. And they thought 
Mrs S was given the correct date before the deadline, which allowed Mrs S the opportunity 
to add a replacement car if she wished to do so. So, our investigator didnt think AIC needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt the correct cancellation date shouldve been 7 August, rather 
than the 4 August, as confirmed in AICs final response to her complaint. So, Mrs S 
maintained her belief that the policy had been cancelled unfairly and that she was prevented 
from adding a replacement car. And she felt she was reasonable when relying upon the date 
given in the original email received on 7 July, rather than the information given to her 
verbally by a call handler on 1 August. So, Mrs S maintained her belief that the policy 
premiums should be refunded to her to compensate her adequately. 
Our investigators view remained unchanged and Mrs S continued to disagree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs S. Ive no doubt Mrs S 
intended to purchase a replacement car, with the intention of doing so within the 30-day time 
period she had to ensure her outstanding motor insurance policy continued. So, when Mrs S 
received the cancellation confirmation from AIC, I can understand the disappointment and 
frustration she wouldve felt.
I can also understand Mrs S confusion, and unhappiness with the level of service she 
received, as its accepted by AIC that Mrs S was provided with more than one deadline date. 
And its not in dispute that the misinformation was provided due to errors on AICs behalf.
But for me to say AIC should do something more than the £30 compensation theyve already 
paid to Mrs S, Id need to be satisfied that there was an impact on Mrs S by AICs error that 
hadnt been reasonably considered. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I can see the payment for Mrs S car was raised on 6 July and so, I think the 30 days from 
and including this date puts the deadline as 4 August. I can see the policy was cancelled on 
5 August, effective from 4 August. While I recognise why Mrs S thinks the 30 days shouldve 
started on either 7 July, when she received an email confirming the 30 days, or 11 July, 
when she received payment, I think AIC acted fairly when using the 6 July as the start date, 
as the terms and conditions explain the time limit is within 30 days of being issued the 
settlement payment and this was on 6 July. So, I think the policy was cancelled correctly, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs S held
But as Ive already explained, its been accepted by AIC that Mrs S received an incorrect and 
conflicting deadline date in an e-mail sent to Mrs S on 7 July, where AIC confirmed this date 
to be 6 August, some two days later. So, I can understand why Mrs S wouldve been 
confused by this.
Ive also listened to a call between Mrs S and AIC on 1 August. And on this call, AIC confirm 
the deadline date would be the 4 August, which was correct. But I appreciate this difference 
from the date given in the email. Even so, this satisfies me that before the end of the 30-day 
period, Mrs S was given the correct information. While I understand why Mrs S may have chosen to continue to rely upon the deadline given to her in the email, I think it was her own 
choice to do so.
Also on this call, I think AIC make it reasonably clear to Mrs S that she didnt need to have 
purchased a replacement car by the deadline date. And they explained Mrs S only needed to 
notify them of the intended change and car information, which could be agreed for a later 
date. Mrs S also explains on this call that she was considering insuring her moms car, that 
she had been using in the interim, on her policy.
So, on 1 August, I think Mrs S was made aware that she was able to notify AIC of a date 
from which she would be insuring her moms car, or another replacement car, as long as this 
was done by 4 August. And I cant see Mrs S did so. I appreciate Mrs S was due to travel 
away and not return until 10 August, but I think Mrs S was made reasonably aware of the 
available options to her, and when she would need to do this by on this call.
AIC have already paid Mrs S £30 to recognise the confusion Mrs S was caused by the 
conflicting information given to her in the email and then in the call held on 1 August. And I 
think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already 
been made and paid. I think it recognises the fact AIC did make an error. But I think it also 
takes into consideration the fact Mrs S did receive the correct deadline date, before the 
expiration of the 30-day time period. I think it also reflects the fact that Mrs S didnt purchase 
a replacement car within the 30-day time period, although I appreciate this was due to failed 
purchases, she was unable to control. I also think it reflects the fact Mrs S was made aware 
of the steps she needed to take to insure her moms car on the policy before 4 August. So, I 
dont think AIC need to do anything more on this occasion.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. And I recognise shes raised 
concerns about the fact AIC deducted her premiums from the payment she received, 
especially as she doesnt feel she had the full length of cover she was entitled to. But as Ive 
explained above, I think Mrs S did receive the full length of cover. And the terms of Mrs S 
policy explain that AIC were able to Take the outstanding amount due for your Consumer 
Credit Agreement out of the claims settlement. As Mrs S was paying for her insurance in 
monthly instalments, Mrs S had an outstanding amount due for the total policy premium and 
so, I think AIC were able to take this amount and I dont think they are required to return it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman