DRN-3302610
The complaint
Mrs D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly when it 
approved loans in 2017 and 2018. She is also unhappy that the bank hasnt done what they 
said they would do to put things right.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive considered this while provisionally deciding Mrs Ds complaint. 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs D 
could afford to make the loan payments before providing these loans for her. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to before providing 
Mrs D with these loans.
Were NatWests checks reasonable and proportionate?
I will address each loan in turn, starting with the September 2017 loan. 
Mrs D approached NatWest, her current account provider, for a personal loan for £10,000 so 
she could buy a car. NatWest, as set out above, had a responsibility to ensure she could 
afford the loan. To decide this it asked for some details, reviewed her current account history 
and searched her credit file. These showed:
- Mrs D declared her income as just under £1,550. I can see from her bank statements this 
was correct. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to rely on this figure. 
- NatWest asked for details of Mrs Ds expenditure and noted the that she was living at home 
with parents with committed monthly expenditure of about £600. This is also supported by 
whats showing on her account statements, so Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to 
rely on this figure too. 
- The difference between Mrs Ds income and expenditure was about £900. The monthly 
repayments for the loan were £241. So, Im satisfied the checks NatWest undertook showed 
the repayments were affordable to Mrs D, and that they wouldnt cause her undue 
difficulties.
- NatWest also reviewed Mrs Ds account history with it and her credit file to see if there was 
anything else which might suggest Mrs D couldnt afford the repayments. It didnt find 
anything of concern  for example her credit file showed no recent missed payments on 
other credit, or her being over extended.
Mrs D argues she shouldnt have been lent to because NatWest was aware she had 
gambling issues. I havent seen any notes at the time of the lending decisions to support that 
NatWest had this knowledge. I can see from Mrs Ds current account statements shed 
gambled in the months leading up to her initial loan application. But gambling isnt in and of 
itself something which should automatically mean a bank shouldnt lend. Here, Mrs D seems 
to have gambled using her own money, and there doesnt seem to be a pattern which could 
reasonably be described to indicate a problem over someone using their money for a leisure 
activity of their choice. For example, Mrs D made a substantial payment to a betting website, 
but then didnt gamble again as far as I can see until some weeks later, despite having 
money to do so. NatWest has said they did an automatic check on gambling in the month 
prior to the first loan but the amount didnt hit their threshold which would have seen the loan 
application reviewed. What I have seen of the statements supports this and so I dont think 
this was a reason why NatWest shouldnt have given this loan. 
The second loan was given in May 2018. Mrs D approached NatWest for a personal loan for 
£15,000 so, she could consolidate her first loan and pay off a credit card. It is important to 
note that this loan was therefore not increasing Mrs Ds indebtedness by much. However, 
NatWest, as set out above, had a responsibility to ensure she could afford the loan. To 
decide this, it asked for some details, reviewed her current account history and searched her 
credit file. These showed:
- Mrs D declared her income as just under £1,400. I can see from her bank statements this 
was correct. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to rely on this figure. 
- NatWest asked for details of Mrs Ds expenditure and she was still recorded as living at 
home with not much committed monthly expenditure. This is also supported by whats 
showing on her account statements, so Im satisfied it was reasonable for NatWest to rely on 
this. 
- The difference between Mrs Ds income and expenditure was about £800. The monthly 
repayments for the loan were £294. So, Im satisfied the checks NatWest undertook showed the repayments were affordable to Mrs D, and that they wouldnt cause her undue 
difficulties.
- NatWest also reviewed Mrs Ds account history with it and her credit file to see if there was 
anything else which might suggest Mrs D couldnt afford the repayments. It didnt find 
anything of concern  for example her credit file showed no recent missed payments on 
other credit, or her being over extended.
I understand that by 2019/2020 Mrs D was struggling to maintain her repayments. From her 
current account statements, I can see by this time her income had reduced significantly. It 
seems more than likely than not, therefore, given my findings above on the original lending 
decisions, that she was struggling because of a change in circumstances rather than 
because the loans were unaffordable at the start.
Whilst I accept that Mrs D may now be having difficulty making her payments and Im sorry 
to hear this, Im satisfied NatWests checks before approving these loans were 
proportionate. Id also add that while I think NatWests checks were proportionate in this 
instance and so it didnt need to check Mrs Ds bank statements, the copies we have been 
provided with dont obviously contradict the information NatWest gathered, or show another 
obvious reason why NatWest shouldnt have lent to her either. So, in any event, I cant 
reasonably say that further checks would have prevented NatWest from bringing about Mrs 
Ds loans either. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that NatWest did anything wrong when bringing about Mrs Ds loans. The key thing 
here is that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be 
affordable for her.
Did NatWest act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs D in some other way?
Mrs D has said that before lending to her, NatWest were aware of a previous gambling issue 
and that there was a marker on her account due to this. She has said that the associate 
had to remove the marker before approving the lending. 
NatWest has acknowledged that they do have such markers and the associate has 
acknowledged that he can remove markers with permission. However, they have said that 
there is no trail of such a marker having ever applied to Mrs Ds account. I cant conclude 
that NatWest acted irresponsibly in removing a marker so they could lend, without any 
evidence of it having been applied in the first place. Regardless, based on what I have seen 
I might not have concluded that it was unreasonable to remove such a marker so to lend to 
Mrs D. The loan was for the purpose of a car, an essential for Mrs D and I might not have 
found that the marker shouldnt have been removed for such a necessity. 
However, NatWest did previously agree to reconstruct Mrs Ds remaining loan on an interest 
free basis, before withdrawing that offer. That has obviously caused some distress to Mrs D 
and although they are entitled to change their mind, it should be noted that there would have 
been a significant loss of expectation for Mrs D. 
ConclusionsOverall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, Im intending to issue a final decision which finds that I dont think 
NatWest treated Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about her loans. As this is the 
case and while I sympathise with Mrs D as a result of any difficulties she might now be 
having, Im afraid that Im not intending to uphold her complaint. I appreciate that my 
provisional decision will be very disappointing for Mrs D. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for it and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
NatWest has already paid out a significant amount in refunded interest of almost £6,000, 
which they say they will not attempt to recover. They have also paid Mrs D £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. However, whilst I sympathise with the position Mrs D 
has found herself in, I havent found that NatWest has done anything wrong with the checks 
carried out prior to lending. There was a loss of expectation for Mrs D but this has been 
more than compensated for by NatWests refund and payment. So, I dont ask them to do 
anything more.
NatWest responded to say the acknowledged the provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
Mrs D responded to say that she maintained there had been a marker on her account prior 
to lending. She provided further evidence of what she said was the conversation where it 
was removed so she could borrow. Mrs D also wanted confirmation that the amount 
refunded would not be recovered, clarity on the amount owing and assistance with helping 
her repay the balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings are as I explained in my provisional decision. Whilst I sympathise with the 
position Mrs D has found herself in, I dont believe NatWest treated her unfairly when lending 
to her. I appreciate that she has provided a further account of a marker being removed. 
However, it isnt enough for me to conclude that a marker existed and was removed. I also 
reiterate that I might not have concluded this was an unreasonable thing for NatWest to do, 
based on Mrs Ds circumstances and the reason for the lending. 
NatWest has confirmed they will not attempt recovery on the amount refunded to Mrs D. 
They have also said that they will contact her to help her with an arrangement to pay off 
what is owed. As I havent concluded that NatWest have done anything wrong, I cant ask 
them to do any more than that. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Yoni SmithOmbudsman