DRN-2884695
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement Great Lakes Insurance SE paid him following a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay him a further £7,051.09.
What happened
Mr H bought a new car from a dealership, but it recorded itself as the first owner for a week 
so that Mr H could obtain a discount. So Mr H was the cars second owner. Mr H insured the 
car with Great Lakes and said the car hadnt been modified. He later added modifications 
and he said some of these had been agreed with Great Lakes. 
Mr H then had an accident and Great Lakes declared the car to be a total loss. It paid Mr H 
the cars market value, £45,950, in settlement of his claim. And it agreed to pay £1,084 
towards some fitted optional extras. It also paid for some dealership fitted modifications. 
But it declined to pay Mr H for a Paint Protection Film (PPF) applied to the car as it had no 
records of agreeing this. And it declined to pay for modifications fitted by a non-dealership. 
Mr H was unhappy with this and that he had to pay the rest of his years premium. He said 
he wasnt told he could add a replacement car to the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Great 
Lakes settlement offer was fair and reasonable as it was in keeping with our approach. He 
thought it had reasonably taken into account the extras fitted before purchase and the 
dealership-fitted options. He couldnt see evidence that Great Lakes had agreed the PPF 
modification. He thought the policy stated that the full years premium was due in the case of 
a claim. And he thought Mr H didnt want to add another car to the policy at the time of the 
claim. 
Mr H replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Hs accident. I can understand that it was a traumatic 
experience for him. Mr H has raised a number of concerns and I have focussed here on 
what I think are the most significant to him. 
Ive seen evidence that the car was broken up for salvage as it was beyond economical 
repair. Im satisfied that Mr H wasnt entitled to a like for like replacement under the policy 
terms and conditions as he had bought the car as used and this benefit only applied to first 
owners of insured cars. 
I can understand that Mr H wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He has provided 
evidence of the money he spent on the car after he bought it. And I can see that it was a 
considerable sum. The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. 
We dont provide valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Great Lakes firstly offered Mr H a settlement of £45.950. Mr H then provided evidence of the 
factory-fitted options added to the car and Great Lakes engineer increased the offer by 
£1,084 to £47,034. But Mr H said the extras had cost much more. 
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes settlement for the market value of Mr Hs car was 
fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he 
checked the motor trade guides for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition 
and optional extras as Mr Hs car. 
The optional extras didnt add much to the valuation, and I think this is common with used 
cars. Great Lakes explained that it offered Mr H 33% of their cost as a gesture of goodwill. 
And I think this was very fair and reasonable. Great Lakes settlement, without the optional 
extras payment, was within the range of the valuations the investigator found. And so Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly in keeping with our approach.  
Great Lakes agreed to pay £184.81 for some additional items that had been fitted or 
provided by the dealership. Mr H thought he had fitted some of these items, but Im satisfied 
that the invoices hes provided show that the dealership invoiced him for them. 
But Great Lakes declined to pay for other items that werent dealer-fitted. It also said it 
wouldnt cover the cost of the PPF. Great Lakes said the only modifications that would be 
covered were extras fitted by a dealer. 
I can see that the policy defines modifications on page 9 as:
we consider a modification to be any alteration to your car from the manufacturers standard 
specification. This includes cosmetic changes to bodywork such as body kits, spoilers and 
alloy wheels or performance changes to the suspension, brakes, exhaust or engine 
management system.
Optional extras fitted at the point of manufacture and retailer fitted accessories are not 
considered modifications.
And on page 35, the policy states:
You must tell us about any changes that may affect your policy cover. If we are not informed 
of any changes or corrections this may affect your ability to claim under your policy.
Changes you must tell us about before continuing to use your car:
 If you make any modifications to your car that make it different from the manufacturers 
standard UK specification;
I think the PPF was a modification. And unfortunately I havent seen evidence to show that 
Mr H did tell his finance company or Great Lakes that he intended to apply the PPF. Great 
Lakes said it wouldnt have approved the PPF in any case. So I think the PPF wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. And I dont require Great Lakes to pay Mr H for this cost or for the 
cost of other two items that werent agreed as they werent supplied or fitted by a dealership.
Mr H was unhappy that Great Lakes deducted the outstanding balance of his annual 
premium from the settlement. But I think its standard industry practice, and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions, that the full premium becomes due when a total loss claim 
has been paid. This is because the policy which is an annual contract, has been used. 
Great Lakes said it allows consumers seven days from settlement to add a replacement car 
to the unspent policy and so use the remainder of the policy year. And I can see from Great 
Lakes file that Mr H was given the opportunity to do this. But he didnt take up the offer at that time as he didnt then buy a new car. So Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to deduct the outstanding premium from the settlement. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Great Lakes settled Mr Hs claim fairly and reasonably, and in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions. So I dont require it to pay Mr H anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman