DRN-3652599
The complaint
Miss K complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for withdrawals 
which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 27 January 2022, Miss K reported to Barclays that she disputed eight transactions on her 
account. These were:
- One contactless £6.50 payment to a fast food restaurant on 17 January;
- Six £500 cash withdrawals made at a cash machine, on 17, 18, 20, 21, 22 and 23 
January;  
- One £40 cash withdrawal made at a cash machine on 24 January.
The total disputed was therefore £3,046.50. Miss K also told Barclays her debit card was 
missing.
On 17 January, two incoming payments had credited Miss Ks account. These totalled 
£2,982.  Later the same day, Miss K had made an undisputed £8.90 payment at a 
supermarket. The first disputed payment took place seven minutes later.
Barclays investigated. On 28 February, it wrote to Miss K and said it couldnt find any 
evidence of fraud, so it couldnt refund her. The letter said it had considered the security 
capability of the card; Miss Ks security obligations under the terms and conditions; and the 
details of the disputed transactions. It also said that from what Miss K had told them, the PIN 
was with her card, and the terms and conditions asked her to keep the PIN separate.
Miss K didnt agree, and she said shed never said she kept her PIN with her card. Barclays 
issued its final response letter on 30 March. It accepted that Miss K hadnt said shed kept 
her PIN with her card, and apologised for this. But Barclays said the decision to hold Miss K 
liable still remained. This was because the transactions didnt follow a fraud pattern. There 
had been no incorrect PIN attempts; no balance enquiries before the transactions; and no 
attempts to use the card after it was cancelled  suggesting that the card user knew it was 
no longer any use to them.
Miss K wasnt satisfied, and complained to this service. She said most of the money was 
student finance which was meant to last her to the end of term, and it had mentally affected 
her. She said she wanted a refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest 
Miss Ks PIN had been compromised, and the last genuine transaction had been 
contactless, meaning no-one could have found out the PIN by looking over her shoulder. 
The transactions had been carried out over eight days, and a typical fraudster would attempt 
more than one transaction a day, to maximise the gain. And Miss K hadnt reported the issue 
until ten days after the first disputed transaction. 
Miss K wasnt satisfied. She said that it wasnt correct that the last genuine transaction had 
been contactless, and shed put her PIN in. She said the money was from student finance, 
and some day shed have to pay it back with interest. She said that no-one had consoled her 
in any way, and shed been under a lot of stress at the time with exams. Miss K said this 
service was meant to help a customer, but had sided with the bank, and she couldnt deal 
with the stress. Miss K asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss K is finding her dispute stressful. But the role of this service isnt to be a 
customer advocate as Miss K thinks, but to look independently at both sides of the story in 
an impartial way. We provide an unbiased answer when a financial business and a customer 
cant resolve a complaint themselves. So Ive looked at what the regulations are about 
disputed transactions, and what the evidence shows is more likely than not to have 
happened.
Regulations
There are regulations about disputed transactions. For transactions in early 2022, these are 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclays) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Barclays has provided the technical evidence for each of the disputed transactions. So the 
disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that it was Miss K who 
authorised the transactions, or a third party fraudster unknown to Miss K.
Who authorised the transactions?
Whoever carried out the disputed transactions must have known that Miss K had had two 
large credits into the account earlier the same day  because her normal balance wouldnt 
have supported £3,046 of withdrawals. Whoever did the withdrawals didnt check the 
account balance before the transactions, so they must already have known the balance. 
The disputed payments took place over eight days: approximately one per day. This isnt 
how a typical third party fraudster would operate. Theyd take out the maximum very quickly, 
before their activity could be spotted and stopped. 
The computer records show that the withdrawals were all carried out with the genuine card. 
Theres never been any known instance of the highly technical chip in a card being copied or 
cloned. Miss K did tell Barclays, when she raised the dispute some ten days later, that her 
card was missing. But the first disputed transaction took place just seven minutes before the 
first disputed one. I think its unlikely that anyone could have stolen her card so soon after a 
genuine transaction, and used it so quickly. And the first disputed transaction was only for £6.50. This just isnt typical of what any fraudster would do. The first £500 withdrawal didnt 
take place until nearly two hours later  and waiting so long isnt what a fraudster would do.
Miss K didnt report the dispute until ten days after the first disputed payment. This is 
surprising, because her statements show that she used her card very regularly  often 
multiple times each day. So its not clear why she didnt realise the card was missing and 
report the transactions until ten days later. And the disputed transactions stopped as soon as 
Miss K reported the dispute. A fraudster wouldnt know the account had been stopped and 
that they couldnt get any more money from the account, but there are no failed withdrawal 
attempts after Miss K reported her dispute.
Miss K also didnt log onto her online banking during the time of the disputed transactions  
which again is different to her normal pattern. 
Miss K was asked whether shed told anyone else her PIN, or written it down, and she said 
she hadnt. There are 10,000 different combinations of a four-digit PIN. So I cant see any 
way in which a fraudulent third party could have known or guessed her PIN.
I recognise that Miss K said that she made her last genuine transaction by chip and PIN, not 
contactless. But I dont think this is relevant to the question of who authorised the disputed 
transactions. Even if someone had seen Miss K putting in her PIN during that last genuine 
transaction, theyd also have had to steal Miss Ks card. And as Ive set out above, the 
pattern of use here just isnt typical of a fraudster.  
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Miss K carried out 
the disputed transactions herself. So I dont require Barclays to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman