DRN-3301567
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L has complained that QIC unfairly turned down its business 
interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to Covid-19.
Mr F, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf.
QIC has used an agent in its dealings with L. For ease, Ill refer to all the agents 
submissions as being from QIC. 
What happened
L held a business interruption insurance policy with QIC. L claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19.
QIC said the policy didnt cover Ls claim. QIC said the policy covered business interruption 
as a result of an occurrence of notifiable human disease at the premises. But QIC thought 
that Ls business had been impacted by the Governments imposed restrictions rather than 
because someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned down its claim. 
QIC also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance 
test case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Ls policy wording. 
Unhappy with QICs response, L brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt think L had shown it was 
most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business premises.
L asked for an ombudsman review. L said that the investigators findings were flawed. There 
was a proximity issue which the court (in the FCA test case) did look at and ruled that the 
radius of 25 miles was not appropriate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
QIC has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ls claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Ls policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
c) an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be 
notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ls claim, 
the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 occurring at the premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
L does not appear to suggest that there had been a case of Covid-19 at its premises. So, 
I dont think that the extension provides cover in the circumstances of its claim and QIC was 
fairly entitled to turn down the claim.
I have reviewed Ls comments about the proximity issue. L says that the court (in the FCA 
test case) did look at this and ruled that the radius of 25 miles was not appropriate. I see the 
point that L is making but I dont think this assists it in its claim. In the test case, the court 
looked at radius disease clauses, being those that provide cover for business interruption 
as a consequence of or following or arising from the occurrence of a notifiable disease within 
a specified radius of the insured premises. 
But importantly Ls policy did not include radius disease wording. Rather, its policy required 
there to be Covid-19 at the Premises. And L has not shown that it was more likely than not 
that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. So, I think that QIC was correct to 
conclude that Ls claim was not affected by the FCA test case. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QIC to pay its claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman