DRN-4373727
The complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for flights for him and others.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr M used his Lloyds credit card to make a payment for flight tickets 
costing a total of over £10,000. He bought the tickets from a company Ill call Firm T which 
arranged the flights with a separate airline (the Airline). Mr M said he wanted to buy fully 
refundable flights because he wasnt sure of being able to organise accommodation at the 
flights destination. He later sought a refund for the tickets when he says it had become clear 
that sourcing the accommodation was a problem for him. But Firm T then said the flights 
werent refundable. Mr M said they were fully refundable and pointed to the flights being 
cancelled by the Airline after he sought to cancel them. But Firm T still didnt give him his 
money back, so he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund Mr 
M. It raised a chargeback which was defended by Firm T. It also pointed to the non-
refundable nature of the flight tickets and that Firm T said Mr M cancelled the tickets. Lloyds 
did consider it had provided a poor level of customer service in dealing with Mr M. So it 
offered him £240 in relation to the customer service it had provided him. However, Mr M 
remained unsatisfied as he hadnt got back the money he paid for the tickets, and he brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt Lloyds didnt have to do anymore. And Mr M remained unhappy and so 
this complaint came to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision dated 29 August 
2023 saying Lloyds should pay Mr M £240 for the customer service it provided but it didnt 
have to refund the flight tickets.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and made no further submissions in relation to the 
complaint. Mr M has not responded to the provisional decision and the deadline for 
responding to it has now passed. Therefore, Im able to proceed to determination of the 
complaint in the circumstances. I proceed to a final decision in this matter taking into account 
Mr M was emailed on 20 September 2023 reminding him of the deadline for responding to 
the provisional decision, which was 26 September 2023. In summary, as the time limit for 
responses has passed, and I have no further submissions to consider, Ive decided in the 
interests of finality to issue a final decision, and this mirrors the conclusions which I made in 
my provisional decision as below. 
Mr M used his Lloyds credit card to pay Firm T for the flights. This means that section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act (s.75) can apply to the transaction. This provides that where Mr M 
has a claim against a supplier of goods or services (in this case Firm T and/or the Airline) in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract he will have a like claim against Lloyds 
as creditor subject to the provisions of s.75. 
Also, Mr Ms Lloyds credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by separate 
company. This scheme has rules which include giving Lloyds an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with the relevant merchant, such as Firm T, namely through the 
chargeback process. The decision maker on chargebacks is the scheme itself and not 
Lloyds. So it is possible that Lloyds could take Mr Ms dispute as far as it could in the 
chargeback process and Mr M still not be successful in getting a refund.
This decision is solely about Lloyds in relation to whether it did what it should have, and 
whether it treated Mr M fairly in consideration of his dispute with Firm T. This decision isnt 
directly about either the Airline or Firm T, neither of which are within this Services 
jurisdiction for complaints regarding chargeback and s.75. 
The evidence I have relied upon
This dispute is about whether Lloyds treated Mr M fairly in its consideration of Mr Ms dispute 
with Firm T about his receiving a refund. Therefore, the outcome of this complaint depends 
(in part) upon what the contractual position was in relation to Mr Ms agreement with Firm T 
and the Airline and how those contracts worked. It is not entirely clear which versions of 
these contracts Lloyds considered because both Firm Ts and the Airlines contracts were 
revised relatively regularly. 
As a consequence our investigator has been in contact with both Firm T and the Airline to try 
to establish the contractual position including which versions of the contract applied at the 
point Mr M booked these tickets and exactly what Firm T and the Airline did in the course of 
these events. Our investigator made repeated attempts to get this information from both Firm 
T and the Airline. However, little clarity was provided by either firm and the precise facts of 
what Firm T and the Airline did during the events in question remains unclear.
The rules under which I deal with complaints include DISP 3.5.9R(3) which entitles me to 
reach a decision on the basis of evidence which has been supplied. Im satisfied that Ive 
received all the key evidence that Im likely to receive and can fairly decide this complaint 
considering the evidence which is available. Accordingly, in the interests of resolving this 
matter quickly and fairly, I rely on the following evidence in this decision.
Our investigator researched online to try and establish which contracts were likely to be 
those in place when Mr M booked the tickets and managed to get copies of some of the 
terms and conditions of the parties.They managed to get a copy of Firm Ts terms and conditions which confirm it was updated 
on 18 May 2021. Mr M made the booking in September 2021, so the investigator looked for 
updates or amendments between these dates and didnt find any. Therefore, Im satisfied on 
balance of probabilities the terms and conditions belonging to Firm T marked updated 18 
May 2021 in our file are those which I ought to rely upon and consider when determining 
this complaint.
As regards the Airlines terms and conditions Ive considered a copy of its general conditions 
of carriage from 1 May 2021. Weve also researched for relevant updates and amendments 
between that date and when Mr M booked the tickets in September 2021. Similarly, weve 
not been able to find any versions of the terms which were updated closer to the time in 
question. So Im satisfied it is fair for me to rely on the Airlines terms and conditions of 1 
May 2021 in the circumstances for the purposes of deciding the complaint.
Neither party provided further evidence or arguments on the evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Accordingly I see no persuasive reason to deviate from the position 
articulated in my provisional decision and repeated here.
The important terms of the Airline terms and conditions
Having considered the Airlines terms and conditions there are several clauses I want to 
highlight as they support my conclusions on this matter.
In the Airlines terms clause 3a3) it explains:
We sell some tickets at discounted fares which may be partly or completely non-refundable. 
You should choose the fare which best suits your needs and consider taking out insurance 
to cover instances where you might have to cancel your ticket.
This makes clear that the Airline did and could sell tickets at discounted prices that could be 
partly or completely non-refundable at the relevant time when Mr M purchased his tickets. 
Therefore, the tickets sold to Mr M could have been non-refundable.
Further, at clause 9b3) of the Airlines terms and Remedy 3 on remedies for delays and 
cancellations, it states that if the Airline cancel a flight the ticker-holder has an option to 
receive an involuntary fare refund.
At clause 10a1) on refunds it states:
We will refund the fare and carrier imposed charges and surcharges for your ticket, or any 
unused part of it and any taxes, fees and charges, as set out in the fare rules and conditions 
applicable to your booking.
Further, at clause 10b) it explains involuntary fare refunds will be made if the Airline cancels 
a flight. The significance of this is that it demonstrates whether a refund is due will depend 
on the conditions of the ticket purchased. It also demonstrates that an involuntary refund 
would be dependent on the Airline cancelling the flight. Here the Airline rebooked Mr M on identical flights on the same day but only after Mr M had already sought to cancel the tickets 
already.
Firm T internal systems screenshot
During this dispute Firm T provided Lloyds with internal screenshots of its systems as 
evidence of the nature of the tickets booked. The screenshots show some of Mr Ms details 
including name and postcode and that hed accepted the terms and conditions by ticking a 
box. They also show a pop-up box of information around charges to these tickets including 
that in the event of cancellation the ticket was in all circumstances non-refundable. Im 
satisfied this screenshot is reliable regarding Mr Ms booking because Mr Ms details are 
clearly shown alongside the cost he paid for this booking. Therefore, Im satisfied the non-
refundable nature of these tickets was shown in relation to Mr Ms tickets specifically.
Firm Ts records of the booking
Our investigator has repeatedly chased Firm T for information. Particularly for its internal 
records to show what happened with Mr Ms booking but it hasnt provided this. The 
evidence shows that Mr M emailed Firm T on the 3 October 2021 asking it to cancel his 
booking. Subsequently the Airline emailed Mr M on 17 October 2021 to say one of his 
booked connecting flights had been cancelled and hed been rebooked onto a different flight 
for the same journey on the same day. On 18 October 2021 Firm T wrote to Mr M saying it 
had now applied to the Airline for a cancellation/refund and once it had received an answer 
from it then there was the possibility of a voucher or a refund. This isnt inconsistent with the 
tickets being non-refundable bearing in mind it had already told Mr M that they were non-
refundable. There is no evidence as to whether Firm T received a response from the Airline 
or what any such response was. It has said to Lloyds that it issued tickets to Mr M and that 
the flights were available. It is unclear whether the Airline had received such a cancellation 
or treated Mr M as a no show. This point has been put to both Firm T and the Airline, but 
we have been unable to establish what happened.
As I stated above, under DISP 3.5.9R (3) I am entitled to reach a decision on the basis of 
evidence which has been supplied, and to consider the failure by a party to provide 
information requested  this includes making findings on what is likely to have happened 
taking into account the information which is available. It is of note that neither Firm T or the 
Airline are parties to the dispute, and it is in both Mr Ms and Lloyds interests that after such 
considerable time I endeavor to move this dispute towards resolution.
Having identified the evidence I have relied upon in relation to the transaction and received 
no evidence or arguments on the matter in response to my provisional decision I proceed to 
consider Lloyds position.Could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
Mr M doesnt dispute that he used his Lloyds credit card. Nor does he dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Lloyds couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction given 
what Ive set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there remains a reasonable prospect of success with that particular 
chargeback.
Lloyds did raise a chargeback in this case which was then defended by Firm T stating that 
the tickets were non-refundable. Lloyds emailed Mr M about this, and it says Mr M didnt 
respond. Without any further information from Mr M it then decided that the chargeback no 
longer had a reasonable prospect of success considering the defence Firm T had provided. 
So it reversed the credited amount of the tickets which Lloyds had applied to Mr Ms credit 
card account whilst the chargeback process had been ongoing. 
Ive considered what happened and I dont think Lloyds treated Mr M unfairly by not 
continuing the chargeback in these circumstances. Firm T had responded to the chargeback 
as per the process and provided evidence which set out that the tickets were non-
refundable. And as Mr M didnt respond to Lloyds request, I think it fair that Lloyds decided 
that the chargeback no longer had a reasonable prospect of success in the circumstances 
and decided not to pursue the matter further.
Subsequently Mr M has provided further evidence to this Service during the course of this 
dispute which Lloyds hadnt been provided with when it decided on the chargeback. But I 
dont think it makes a difference even if Mr M had provided the evidence then which hes 
since provided. Ill explain why.
I can see on the email confirmation (dated 22 September 2021) Firm T sent to Mr M when 
he purchased the tickets it says:
Once the ticket is issued it is completely non-refundable and non-changeable, However in 
the event of cancellation please let us know to process your booking for airport tax refund 
only (Fuel Surcharge and all US taxes are non-refundable). Full terms and conditions are 
available at (website address).
We only issue electronic tickets and will email you your e-ticket receipt within 24 hours of 
your booking.
I can see Mr M emailing Firm T on 3 October 2021 (responding to the email Ive quoted 
above and hence showing hed received it) saying Unfortunately we need to cancel these 
flights. Please cancel them and refund my credit card.Firm T then respond by email (5 October 2021) explaining that the tickets werent refundable 
and asking whether Mr M wishes to continue with the cancellation. Mr M then responds with 
some comments and concludes his response by saying Kindly confirm you will now return 
my money or otherwise I will issue a court summons.
Bearing in mind the events of the 17 and 18 October 2021 as described earlier in my 
decision, Ive not seen any revised tickets being issued to Mr M after this point. Furthermore 
considering Mr Ms stated wish and the evidence of 18 October 2021 where Firm T said it 
contacted the Airline, on balance Im satisfied it is more likely that Mr Ms booking was 
cancelled by Firm T on or after the 18 October 2021. If Mr M has evidence contrary to this 
position from after 18 October 2021 Ill reconsider this finding. No evidence or persuasive 
argument was provided in response to my provisional decision. So I see no persuasive 
reason to deviate from this finding.
In his submissions to Firm T Mr M points to the Airlines terms on its website which shows 
some tickets are refundable. But as Ive set out the Airline makes clear in its terms that it 
also sells tickets which are non-refundable, so I dont think this particular argument is 
persuasive. 
I note the Airlines website makes clear that if the tickets are purchased from a third party 
then the third partys terms are applicable to those tickets. Mr M has tried to argue that Firm 
T is acting as agent for the Airline and that this means the terms and conditions of Firm T are 
voided, disapplied or otherwise invalidated. Im not persuaded by this because the Airlines 
terms make clear that if tickets are purchased through third parties, then the third party terms 
do apply. 
As Ive explained Firm T in its chargeback response to Lloyds provided its system 
information showing that in the event of cancellation the tickets were non-refundable. This 
was strong evidence going to Lloyds consideration of whether to continue the chargeback 
taking into account Lloyds requested further evidence from Mr M but that wasnt forthcoming. 
Neither then or in response to my provisional decision.
Mr M says he only bought the tickets as he knew we could get our money back. Ive no 
reason to doubt Mr Ms contention that he had aimed to purchase refundable tickets when 
he started the process of making this purchase. But having considered the evidence Im 
satisfied on balance that Lloyds hasnt treated him unfairly by concluding that what he 
purchased were tickets which were non-refundable including in circumstances where he had 
cancelled them or where he was a no show for the relevant flights.
Mr M points to the fact that the Airline later cancelled the flights. Im not persuaded by this. 
The evidence shows an email dated 17 October 2021 from the Airline to Mr Ms email 
address informing him one of the booked flights (due to fly on 2 January 2022) had been 
cancelled and that Mr M and his party of fellow travellers had been booked onto another 
flight from and to the same airports on the same day, approximately six hours later. There is 
no mention of any other flights for this booking in this email or of any flights being cancelled. 
So to my mind all his flights remained booked as per the original booking save for the 
changed flight Ive described above up to and including the 17 October. I should note the Airlines terms do allow flights to be changed in this manner. So I think his booking for the 2 
January 2022 flight was amended in line with the terms of the Airline.
Having considered all of Mr Ms arguments and the evidence available, I think that Lloyds 
fairly decided to no longer pursue the chargeback process when it did. It appears Mr M was 
booked onto the flights as planned by Firm T and that it cancelled them as per my earlier 
finding.
Normally if Firm T cancelled them Mr M would be entitled to a refund of taxes. However I 
note in the email quoted above it states that Fuel Surcharge and all US taxes are non-
refundable which would be applicable here. I am not aware of any other taxes charged here 
which would be refundable. In the alternative if Firm T didnt cancel the booking he would 
have in essence no-showed to the relevant flights and thus hed not be entitled a refund of 
any refundable taxes.
Accordingly, Im satisfied Lloyds treated Mr M fairly by not continuing with the chargeback. 
And on balance, had the chargeback continued, I think it likely it would have been 
unsuccessful for the reasons given. So I dont think Mr M has lost out because of what 
Lloyds did in relation to chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in s.75 which have to be met before these issues can be considered. 
One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think that Mr Ms 
claim meets the financial limits criteria as it was above the minimum threshold and below the 
maximum threshold.
S.75 also requires there must be a Debtor-Creditor-Supplier arrangement in place (often 
referred to as a DCS arrangement). This would be either between Firm T and Mr M and 
Lloyds or between the Airline and Mr M and Lloyds depending on what basis I felt there had 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation which Lloyds should be held accountable 
for. For the purposes of this complaint my reference to the supplier for the purposes of DCS 
is to Firm T in the circumstances. 
Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point on DCS because - for broadly the 
same reasons Ive already explained in relation to chargeback - Im not persuaded Lloyds 
needs to do anymore in relation to this complaint in relation to s.75. 
For Lloyds to be liable under s.75 it has to be shown that there would be a claim against the 
supplier (Firm T) for breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds has treated Mr M unfairly by concluding that Firm T hadnt 
breached the contract or misrepresented the tickets to him. An important factor in this matter 
is that Mr M hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that he bought fully refundable tickets 
or that there was a misrepresentation by Firm T which induced him to purchase the tickets 
believing them to be refundable. And he hasnt done so when invited to do so in response to 
my provisional decision.Ive considered Mr Ms specific arguments. He points to another website which introduced 
Mr M to Firm Ts website and the tickets it was selling. Im not persuaded that this other 
website misrepresented the specific tickets Mr M purchased to him whilst he was on this 
introductory website. Although Mr M has pointed to that website advertising refundable 
tickets, that doesnt mean that is what Mr M purchased at the time in question once he 
arrived on Firm Ts website or that all tickets available for purchase would be refundable. 
Therefore, the introductory website does not persuade me that there was a good claim for 
misrepresentation against Firm T, and it follows Lloyds acted fairly when it declined the s.75 
claim on that basis. The website made its introductory nature clear and is different in 
appearance and operation to Firm Ts website which Mr M was then directed towards and to. 
Further, it was on Firm Ts website which he entered details and agreed terms before 
purchasing the tickets.
Similarly, Mr M has provided screenshots of Firm Ts website sales process which show 
refundable tickets are purchasable through it. But this isnt in dispute. What is in dispute is 
that Firm T said the tickets Mr M bought were non-refundable. So the fact that fully 
refundable tickets can or could be purchased on Firm Ts website isnt persuasive. Firm Ts 
terms from the relevant time clearly stated both refundable and non-refundable tickets were 
available to be purchased. I dont think Mr Ms evidence is persuasive particularly in contrast 
to Firm Ts internal screenshot regarding his booking showing Mr Ms details and that his 
tickets were non-refundable as I explained earlier in the decision.
Mr M points to Firm Ts own terms and conditions at the time, and there are explanations of 
how to cancel certain bookings with Firm T in those terms. But importantly there is also 
wording explaining that not all arrangements can be amended and that some may incur a 
100% cancellation fee or are non-refundable. So I dont think Mr Ms argument here is 
persuasive on this point as weve already established that Firm T sold both refundable and 
non-refundable tickets.
Mr M also points to the email of 18 October 2021 from Firm T which he says shows it 
confirmed we could have full cash refund. Ive considered this and to my mind this email 
doesnt say what Mr M says it does. What it says is:
Your application has now been submitted to the Airline/supplier and is awaiting approval 
from them. Once we receive confirmation from the Airline/supplier we will be in a position to 
offer you one of the following two options (refund or voucher).
In my view, the email makes clear that Firm T applied for a cancellation/refund on behalf of 
Mr M to the Airline and if the Airline confirmed its approval of a refund Firm T could then offer 
it to Mr M. So Im not persuaded Mr M had been told he would definitely get a refund. I 
consider it more likely Firm T were trying to source a discretionary refund from the Airline as 
a gesture of goodwill. And if the Airline agreed to pay such a refund, Firm T would pass it on 
to Mr M. It is not clear whether the Airline ever responded to Firm T or what its response 
was. But Im not persuaded that this email indicates that Mr M has any contractual right to a 
refund in these circumstances. It follows, I dont think Lloyds has treated him unfairly by not 
paying him under a s.75 claim on this basis.Mr M has made several further arguments to this service in his email of 
1 December 2022 in response to our investigators assessment and throughout this matter. 
However, none of these arguments address the inescapable issue that Mr M hasnt 
produced any persuasive evidence from the purchase he made which shows these particular 
tickets were refundable. I particularly note that in Firm Ts email to Mr M of the 
12 October 2021 it stated:
Please share the information where did you see the tickets are refundable. We have 
checked the ticket terms and condition and it states non-refundable.
And Ive not seen any such persuasive evidence being supplied by Mr M with regard to the 
booking confirmation or the tickets themselves showing them to be fully refundable. I note 
that Mr M has shared with his complain an email from Firm T dated
22 September 2021 to Mr M which refers to an attached booking confirmation/invoice with 
this email. 
However, considering the evidence I have I do not think this attachment has been provided. 
In my experience of dealing with similar complaints such booking confirmations often have 
the details regarding their refundable or non-refundable nature within them. Mr M was invited 
to provide any evidence and arguments he wished to in response to my provisional decision. 
This service received no such response within the timeframe specified. And accordingly I am 
entitled to take this into account under DISP 3.5.9R (3) as Ive described. 
Accordingly I think Lloyds position is more persuasive taking into account the information 
and evidence available to me and it follows that I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr M unfairly 
where Mr M hasnt been able to provide the booking confirmation or tickets or other evidence 
which demonstrates his booking was fully refundable as alleged.
Another point Mr M has made is about the Airlines advertising regarding the flights it sells. 
But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think this makes a difference as the Airline makes 
clear that if its tickets are purchased through a third-party that third-party terms and 
conditions apply.
Mr M has also said hell launch court action against Firm T. As Ive explained this decision is 
about whether Lloyds has treated Mr M fairly. Mr M has not persuaded me that Lloyds have 
done anything wrong in relation to the s.75 claim or chargeback in the circumstances. 
Mr M says he should be compensated for the time hes spent on this matter. I appreciate 
that Mr M is invested in this dispute, but where Im not persuaded that Lloyds has treated 
him unfairly I see no persuasive reason for it to bear any costs for any time or inconvenience 
that Mr M has expended on the matter. 
Mr M further explains he requires compensation for his damaged credit rating. The origin of 
Mr Ms dispute is Firm T not refunding him when he expected it to. Mr M has known 
throughout his credit agreement with Lloyds and indeed his dispute with Firm T that he had 
an obligation to make repayments on the lending Lloyds made to him. So if Mr M hasnt 
been fulfilling that obligation then Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong by recording the true state of affairs in relation to his repayments on his credit agreement with 
Lloyds on his credit file. Mr M could have maintained his repayments in line with his 
obligations to Lloyds whilst bringing this dispute regarding Firm T and Lloyds to this service 
and thus maintained his credit file throughout. If Mr M chose not to make repayments, and 
Lloyds have recorded this on his credit file, then Im not persuaded Lloyds has treated him 
unfairly.
Therefore, having considered the matter and everything Mr M has said and noting his lack of 
response to my provisional decision, Im not persuaded Lloyds has treated Mr M unfairly in 
relation to the chargeback or s.75 claim. I can see Lloyds already made Mr M an offer in 
relation to the customer service it provided him, which I think is a fair offer in the 
circumstances, but which has not been paid. I dont think Lloyds has done anything else 
wrong here which requires further action.
 Putting things right
In all the circumstances it is my final decision that this complaint should be upheld, and 
Lloyds pay Mr M £240 in regard to the customer service hes received.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. It should pay 
Mr M £240 to conclude this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman