DRN-3085574
The complaint
Mr R, Mr R and Mrs R complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim  
Mrs R made on their group private medical insurance policy.
As this complaint was brought by Mrs R, for ease, Ive referred simply to her throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mrs R took out a group private medical insurance policy in October 2019. When the policy 
was set-up, Mrs R selected the standard level of cover and a policy excess of £500 per 
person per year. The standard policy provided cover for two outpatient consultations with a 
specialist per policy year.
In March 2020, AXA arranged an outpatient specialist consultation for Mrs R. This was 
followed by a second consultation with the specialist in April 2020. While it seems AXA had 
authorised these appointments, the total cost of the combined consultations fell below the 
policy excess. This meant that Mrs R met the full cost of both appointments. Mrs R 
underwent a scan in June 2020. Mrs R paid the first part of the scan cost (up to the annual 
excess amount of £500), with AXA paying the remaining scan cost balance over and above 
the excess.
Subsequently, following the scan, Mrs R had a review appointment with the specialist. She 
made a claim for the cost of that appointment. However, AXA declined to cover the claim. 
Thats because it said Mrs R had already used-up the two outpatient consultation allowance 
provided by the policy.
Mrs R was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
felt AXA was acting unfairly by refusing to pay the appointment cost, given it hadnt paid 
anything towards the first two specialist consultations. And she said that Covid-19 had 
caused a delay in the investigations, meaning shed needed three consultations rather than 
two. She decided to lapse the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy terms 
made it clear how the excess and consultation limits worked. While he thought it was 
unfortunate that Mrs Rs consultations had been delayed, he didnt think this was down to 
AXA. So he didnt recommend that AXA should pay this claim.
Mrs R disagreed. She felt the investigator had sided with AXA. And she felt the contract was 
unfair to the customer, as it penalised her twice in terms of AXA not paying out. She didnt 
think it was fair to deduct consultations which she had paid for from her appointment 
allowance.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear our role. We are independent and impartial of both 
consumers and the financial businesses we cover. Our role is to look into complaints brought 
by consumers against a financial business to decide whether a business has done anything 
wrong and if so, whether it needs to take action to put things right. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Rs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether AXA treated 
her fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs Rs policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
AXA. The Managing your Membership section of the policy sets out information about the 
excess and how it works. It says:
Your membership certificate will tell you if you have an excess and how much it is. This 
section tells you how to pay it
If you have an excess on your membership, you can see the amount on your membership 
certificate in your membership guide. Here is how excesses work:
 We will take your excess off the amount covered by your plan for the first claim for each 
person in each membership year. For example, if the claim was covered for £800, and the 
excess was £100, we would pay £700
 We count the treatment costs for each year according to the date the treatment took place.
 Even if treatment costs less than your excess, please tell us about it so we can make sure 
we take this into account if you claim again that year.
I think AXAs policy terms make it clear that if a policyholder has an excess, this amount will 
be deducted from a claim(s) payment. Im also satisfied the policy makes it clear that some 
treatments will fall below the excess but will still be taken into account for later claims 
purposes. 
Mrs Rs membership certificate shows that when she set-up the policy, she chose to select 
an annual excess of £500 per person. This will have been taken into account when AXA 
calculated the annual premium the group would be charged for cover and is likely to have 
reduced the price the group paid. Put simply, an excess of £500 means that a policyholder 
has agreed to pay the first £500 for any eligible claims before AXA will cover any eligible 
costs over that amount. In some cases, a single treatment may exceed the excess, in which 
case, both a policyholder and AXA will contribute towards the costs. In other cases, eligible 
treatment may fall below the excess  which means that while the claim is covered by the 
policy, the policyholder has not yet paid their full agreed annual contribution towards claims 
costs and the remaining excess amount will be deducted from future claims during the policy 
year.
In practice then, contractually, Mrs R would always have needed to pay the first £500 of any treatment or consultations she underwent during the policy year, before AXAs contributions 
would begin. After the excess had been paid though, no further personal contribution would 
be due for eligible treatment for the remainder of the policy year.
The policy terms also state that the policy covers two outpatient specialist consultations per 
policy year. In this case, theres no dispute that Mrs R underwent two specialist consultations 
in March and April 2020. I appreciate the cost of both consultations fell below the policy 
excess and that therefore Mrs R self-funded the cost of these appointments. But both were 
authorised, eligible appointments under the policy terms. So as such, I think AXA was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that these appointments represented the two outpatient 
consultations Mrs R was covered for during the 2019-20 policy year.
It's unfortunate that Mrs Rs appointments may have been affected by the unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And its possible that were it not for the impact of 
Covid-19, Mrs R may not have required three consultations as well as a scan. But in either 
case, Mrs R would always have needed to pay £500 representing her excess before AXA 
was required to pay any costs. So shed still have been out of pocket for this amount (taking 
into account the scan costs), even if she hadnt required a third consultation. And it appears 
that the cost of the third appointment was less than the amount AXA contributed towards the 
scan.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Rs position, I dont think AXA acted unfairly when it 
concluded that her third consultation wasnt covered. So Im not telling it to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, Mr R and 
Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman