DRN-4291000
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S, on behalf of the estate of Mr E, complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax acted negligently in allowing several payments to be made from Mr Es savings 
account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr E held a savings account with Halifax. In early 2021, he was hospitalised following a fall. I 
understand he required support from his family when he was discharged. To that end, his 
niece  Mrs S  got power of attorney for Mr E in late 2021. 
On reviewing Mr Es finances, Mrs S discovered a number of withdrawals had been made 
from his savings account in the months following his hospitalisation. I understand Mr E had 
been visiting his Halifax branch, accompanied by a family member (D), to make these 
payments  as detailed below: 
Date Amount Details
02/03/2021 £50 Payment to Ds daughter
02/03/2021 £80 Payment to D
11/03/2021 £800 Payment to D
11/03/2021 £100 Payment to Ds daughter
15/03/2021 £800 Payment to D
15/03/2021 £100 Payment to Ds daughter
22/04/2021 £100 Cash withdrawal
22/04/2021 £500 Payment to D
22/04/2021 £100 Payment to Ds daughter
13/05/2021 £100 Cash withdrawal
13/05/2021 £2,400 Payment to D
13/05/2021 £1,000 Payment to Ds daughter
03/06/2021 £100 Cash withdrawal
03/06/2021 £400 Payment to D
03/06/2021 £100 Payment to Ds daughter
Total loss £6,730
Mrs S complained to Halifax on Mr Es behalf, who I understand she thinks was coerced by 
D, that it should have done more to protect him. She said hed never visited the branch with 
anyone before, and the amounts withdrawn were unusual for him. Mr E was suffering with 
his health, including mobility and cognitive issues, and Halifax failed to safeguard him. 
Halifax said the payments hadnt appeared suspicious. And it wasnt uncommon for elderly 
customers to attend branch with a family member  noting this had occurred when Mr E was 
recovering from a fall. So it didnt agree it had cause for concern.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs S referred the matter to our service. Sadly, Mr E died a few 
months later. The executor of his estate (Mr S) has provided his consent for us to consider 
his complaint, with Mrs S acting as a representative. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was agreed that Mr E made the 
payments, and she wasnt sure the circumstances amounted to fraud by the family member. 
Even if it did, she wasnt persuaded Halifax ought to have realised Mr E was at risk at the 
time. So she didnt think Halifax was liable for the loss.
The estate has appealed the investigators outcome. Mr S says he is of the opinion that Mr E 
didnt understand that funds were leaving his account. And the family member would have 
known Mr E wouldnt remember why he was in the branch. He also said theyd been told 
Mr Es signature appeared shaky on the payment slips. 
The investigator wasnt able to view Mr Es signature on these slips, although there are 
records that Halifax checked this when Mrs S first complained. Nor could she get evidence 
of Mr Es usual signature for comparison. She explained to the estate why the points raised 
didnt affect her conclusions. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful this is an emotive complaint, involving someone who was clearly vulnerable and 
who Mrs S was seeking to protect. Im really sorry to hear whats happened, and I appreciate 
how difficult this will have been for the parties involved. 
My role here is to look at whether Halifax made any errors which caused Mr E to lose out. 
Where information is contradictory or incomplete, I must decide whats more likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, I do ultimately agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator. Im not persuaded Halifax should fairly be held liable for these 
transactions. Ill explain why.
I agree its clear that Mr E authorised the payments. I appreciate Mr Ss concerns about 
whether Mr E understood what he was doing  as Ill come on to address below. But in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), authorisation depends on whether the 
payment transactions were authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder 
consented to them.
The PSRs state how consent must be given. It occurs when the account holder, or someone 
acting on their behalf, completes the agreed steps to make a payment. There is no 
consideration of informed consent under the regulations. 
In this case, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr E used his payment details to make the 
payments in branch. Such as by signing the forms to consent to the payments. And by using 
his card and PIN to complete the withdrawals. So, to that end, the payments were 
authorised.The PSRs also make clear that banks have a duty to execute authorised payment 
instructions without undue delay. So the starting position is that it was correct for Halifax to 
complete these payments in line with Mr Es authorised requests. 
There are some situations where we might expect a bank to question the account holder 
about the circumstances of the payment before processing it. That generally comes into 
effect when the account holder is at risk of financial harm from fraud  and that risk is, or 
should be, apparent to the bank. Such as when a requested payment is significantly out of 
keeping with the usual account activity, or otherwise indicative of fraud.
I agree with our investigator that its not particularly clear whether this situation amounts to 
fraud. I dont have enough to show D deceived Mr E into making these payments; I 
understand D had a different explanation. While I appreciate the estates concern and 
scepticism about this, its difficult to now establish what may have been understood and 
agreed between D and Mr E at the time. 
Mr S and Mrs S think it should have been apparent to Halifax that Mr E was vulnerable and 
at risk. I cant know for sure how he presented in branch. I have to decide whats more likely. 
Id also point out that I wouldnt consider it reasonable for a bank to decline payments 
outright simply because they thought a customer was vulnerable. But if they had concerns 
the customer was at risk from harm because of their vulnerability, in relation to the specific 
payments being made, it might be appropriate for them to look into the circumstances 
further.
Halifax has explained it isnt uncommon for elderly customers to visit branch with a family 
member, as Mr E did. I consider that reasonable. Particularly considering that, as the estate 
has told us, he was struggling with his mobility at the time. So I dont agree that Halifax 
ought to have been concerned that Mr E was at risk or being coerced by the family member 
due to them coming into branch with him. 
Nor do I think the pattern of the payments was so concerning that Halifax should have 
suspected fraud. I appreciate they came to a significant amount, but I dont think the 
individual payments looked particularly suspicious. They were spread out and didnt drain 
the account. Although there were sometimes multiple payments on the same day, that in 
itself wont reasonably have caused concern  particularly as the payments were going to 
different payees. 
As Mr E was requesting the payments in branch, the bank wouldnt have had concerns over 
who was authorising them. The estate has also told us that the family member 
accompanying Mr E stood back when he went to the counter. I agree with the investigator 
that this likely made it appear to Halifax that Mr E was in control. It presented an opportunity 
for him to give a reason for the payments directly without input from D. He may well have 
been asked, and told Halifax, the reason for the payments. If he said he was transferring 
money to his family  as he was  I dont think that would have seemed particularly 
concerning, bearing in mind the banks duty to act on payment instructions.
On the available evidence, I dont think there is enough to support that Halifax should have 
been aware, based on the payments made and how Mr E presented in branch, that he was 
unaware or being coerced. Unfortunately, due to Mr Es passing and his deteriorating health 
by the time Mrs S found out about the payments, we cant establish what exactly was 
understood or agreed to at the time. Furthermore, Halifax hadnt been notified by then that 
Mr E had any vulnerabilities for which he required additional support.In the circumstances, while I empathise with Mr S and Mrs Ss clear concern over what 
happened to Mr E, Im not persuaded there is enough here to show Halifax likely made an 
error in processing the payments. It acted on Mr Es instructions. And Ive not seen enough 
to persuade me it ought to have had further concerns about what he was doing. I therefore 
dont consider it fair to direct Halifax to refund the estate for these payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman