DRN-3223910
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information on how to complete an 
international transfer.
What happened
On 19 March 2021, Mr P visited a branch for assistance with sending £13,228 abroad.  He 
says the branch adviser suggested he sends a small amount of money first to ensure the 
transaction goes through smoothly.
Mr P explained the branch adviser helped him set up the beneficiary using his online 
banking and made a transfer of £228 in British Pound Sterling (GBP) currency. He says he 
was told that when he sends the remaining amount of £13,000, all the details would be 
saved, and hed only need to add the amount.
On 29 March 2021, Mr P visited the branch again to send £13,000 after the first transfer was 
successfully completed as per his request. However, the second transfer was made in 
United Arab Emirates Dirham (AED) currency rather than GBP currency as Mr P intended. 
As a result, Mr P lost around £900 due to the exchange rate.
HSBC explained that their system saves a template with the beneficiary details but not the 
currency information. They explained Mr P needed to change the currency information 
before sending the payment. They accepted they helped Mr P with the transaction and 
shouldve highlighted this to him, so paid £450 to cover around half of the exchange rate 
loss.
Our investigator said that Mr P had some responsibility to ensure all the details were correct 
and felt HSBC had made a fair offer. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have explained that when a payment is made for the first time, a template of the 
payees details is saved on their system but not the currency information. 
Mr P insists the branch adviser told him that all the beneficiary details would be saved, 
including the currency information, and hed only need to provide the amount to transfer.
I wasnt party to the discussion between Mr P and the branch adviser, so I wont be able to 
say for certain exactly what was said. Although its helpful for me to know the details of the 
conversation between the two parties, its not always possible to have all the information Id 
like. 
Mr P has suggested we request for CCTV evidence to lip read the conversation. I dont think 
this would be appropriate as its simply not practical. In any event, I dont think the exact 
details of the discussion is necessary for me to make a decision on this complaint. 
I say this because even if the branch adviser incorrectly informed Mr P of which details 
would be saved, I dont think I can fairly hold HSBC completely responsible whats happened 
here. Ill explain why.
HSBC have provided us with the copy of the screens that Mr P wouldve seen when 
completing the transfer. Theyve also told us that their system automatically populates the 
form to the currency of the beneficiary account.
So, in this case, when Mr P initiated the process to transfer funds to his payee, the system 
defaulted the payment to send in AED currency rather than GBP currency.
But Mr P wanted to send the funds in GBP currency. The screens show that Mr P couldve 
changed the defaulted currency information to GBP currency. He wouldve also seen a box 
which asked him to please enter the amount you would like to send in either field. 
The field wouldve had the option for Mr P to send the funds in either GBP currency or AED 
currency by entering the amount of 13,000 in the appropriate box. Its most likely at this 
point, Mr P had unintentionally chosen to send the funds in AED currency.
Following this, the screen wouldve shown Mr P the live indicative HSBC exchange rate. And 
even if Mr P had missed this when completing the transaction, he wouldve seen the 
payment summary before he could confirm his payment instruction.
The payment summary wouldve included information about the exchange rates, payment 
amount and debit amount along with a message which said  please check your payment 
details carefully before continuing, as this payment cannot be recalled
It also stated, please select Confirm, if you would like to accept the rate above and confirm 
your payment instruction. Please be aware that once your payment has been confirmed it is 
not possible for it to be recalled or cancelled.
Mr P wanted the payment to be made in GBP currency, but when presented with exchange 
rates he still pressed confirm. I think seeing exchange rates on what he thought was a GBP 
currency transfer should have alerted him to an issue. 
I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr P to have checked the details of the transaction 
before pressing confirm, despite what the branch adviser had told him. HSBC were only 
following his payment instructions to send the funds in AED currency.
Ultimately, it was Mr Ps responsibility to check that the payment details were as per his 
wishes before confirming his instructions, so I dont think HSBC can be blamed fully here.
That said, I agree HSBC shouldve done more to assist Mr P  after all, these transactions 
were clearly important to him as he had visited the branch to avoid any problems. HSBC 
have accepted this too. Theyve paid Mr P half of the amount he lost due to the exchange 
rate of £450.
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate 
Mr P is still out of pocket by around £450 after the refund HSBC have given him. But I cant fairly ask HSBC to cover his full financial loss. I say this because Mr P should 
reasonably have reduced the impact on him by checking the payment details before 
confirming the transaction.
I know Mr P will be disappointed, but all things considered, HSBC have resolved this 
complaint fairly by reimbursing Mr P with £450 and I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that the payment HSBC UK Bank Plc 
have already made of £450 is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman