DRN-3929152
The complaint
Mrs D complains that her landlord policy insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, wont consider her 
claim for damage and loss of rent from an escape of water at her rental property. She also 
complains about delays caused by AXA. References to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs D owns a rental property. She said when a tenancy ended in June 2022 she discovered 
an escape of water, and made a claim to her current insurer in June 2022, which AXA 
accepted. Mrs D said she had a tenant ready to move in but put this on hold for the claim. 
AXA requested details about the leak and sent a loss adjuster to assess the damage, who 
said it occurred before the policy started and had been ongoing for a significant amount of 
time. The loss adjuster said its surveyor told Mrs D this during his inspection and it confirmed 
this by letter to her. Mrs D said she had to wait a number of weeks with no information and 
then AXA declined her claim. AXA advised Mrs D to speak to her previous insurer, and Mrs 
D claimed to her previous insurer in August 2022.
Mrs Ds previous insurer asked AXA for information about the claim and quotes for the 
repairs and liaised with AXA during August and September 2022. In September the previous 
insurer appointed loss adjusters to report on the claim and their report was received in early 
October 2022 and liability for the damage accepted. However, the previous insurer declined 
Mrs Ds claim for loss of rent as she had no tenancy arrangements in place.
Mrs D complained to AXA for wasting nearly four months before declining her claim and for 
having to continually chase it for updates. She said AXA should contact her previous insurer 
about the claim.
AXA apologised for initially telling Mrs D it accepted her claim in confused communications   
and paid her £375 compensation, but said its decision on her claim was correct. 
Mrs D was unhappy with this response and described the compensation paid as measly. 
Mrs D brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AXA had dealt with 
Mrs Ds claim fairly based on the expert report it obtained. She said AXA had acknowledged 
that it gave Mrs D conflicting information about the claim and had paid her compensation, 
which the investigator thought was fair.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said the four months wasted by AXA caused her loss of rent, and she had to chase 
responses. Mrs D provided a letter from a third party saying they looked at the property in 
June 2022 but couldn't rent it because of the damage. The investigator said this was dated 
well after the event and didnt prove a tenancy was in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at Mrs Ds complaint to see if AXA has acted in accordance with the 
terms of the policy, and treated her fairly. Mrs D has raised a separate complaint about her 
previous insurer, and I havent considered that here. 
I was sorry to learn about the damage to Mrs Ds property. It is clear from the property 
inspection that it wasnt habitable at the time and so Mrs D would not have been able to let it 
out. Im pleased her claim for the damage has been accepted by her previous insurer.
Mrs D discovered the damage to her property within four months of her landlord policy 
starting with AXA. The damage was discovered at the start of June 2022 after the tenant had 
left. AXAs loss adjuster couldnt say exactly when the escape of water occurred but said it 
would have been months if not years before the policy started. 
We expect insurers to obtain and then rely on expert assessments of property damage when 
deciding claims. From the expert report it seems very likely the damage to Mrs Ds property 
occurred well before the start of the policy. AXA wasnt receiving premiums at that time as 
there was no policy with it in place and so theres no reason for it to have accepted liability 
for the claim. I think AXA acted fairly in directing Mrs D to her previous insurer.
Mrs Ds policy includes cover for loss of rent. Mrs D says loss of rent is demonstrated by the 
letter she provided from a third party about renting the property. However, the letter is dated 
seven months after the claim and there was no tenancy agreement in place with this person, 
or any other. As Mrs D didnt have a tenant and there was no new tenancy agreement in 
place, there was no rental income to lose at the time. However, since AXA doesnt have to 
cover the claim, it follows that any loss of rent would also not be covered by AXA. 
I have looked to see if AXA caused avoidable delays and therefore greater loss to Mrs D. 
From the timeline of events and communications I havent found that AXA delayed progress 
of the claim. AXA received the claim in June 2022 and made enquiries and obtained an 
expert report following which it declined the claim in August 2022. AXA was entitled to make 
enquiries and obtain information, and I dont think that two months was an avoidable time 
span for this to happen.   
AXA dont dispute that it gave conflicting information to Mrs D about the claim being 
accepted. In its final response it apologised to Mrs D and made a payment of £375 
compensation. I agree with the investigator that Mrs Ds expectations couldve been 
managed better, but £375 is fair compensation for this.
From all the information I have seen, I am satisfied that AXA has acted and made decisions 
about Mrs Ds claim in line with the insurance policy and that it has treated her fairly. And so 
I wont be asking AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman