DRN-4321348
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Banco Santander Totta SA is chasing him for a debt he says he 
doesnt owe  and that he understood to be settled.
What happened
In 2003, Mr W applied for a loan facility of EUR 375,000 with Banco Santander Totta SA 
(BST). It looks like the loan facility (which was granted) was secured on the share capital of 
a company with which Mr W was involved (which Ill call DL).
In September 2021, Mr W copied the Financial Ombudsman Service into an e-mail he sent 
to BSTs representative. In the e-mail. Mr W said that DL had received information in 2018 
that the loan had been repaid. Mr W said that his solicitor in Portugal had paid all liabilities 
from the sale of the property that had been owned by DL and that it wasnt reasonable for 
BST to be requesting the payment of something he wasnt aware of, some two years down 
the track.
An investigator here issued an opinion saying they thought the complaint wasnt one that fell 
within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. This was on the grounds that the 
relevant activity (pursuing Mr W for a debt owed) was being carried out by a firm no longer 
regulated in the UK.
Mr W disagreed with this finding. He said that when he applied for the loan facility, BST was 
regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) and hed never signed anything to 
move his account or give away his protections. He asked for the case to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
The investigator still thought the complaint wasnt one we could consider, so it was passed
to me for further review. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in July 2023. In it, I said:
The first thing Ive needed to think about is whether this case is one that I can consider.
Whilst the investigator may have been right that at least some of the activity pursuing Mr W
for a debt BST says is owed, has been carried out by a firm no longer authorised in the UK
and without a UK office, it seems to me that Mr Ws concerns revolve around what he (/DL)
was told in 2018 about the loan having a zero balance. And this is an activity that is covered
by our jurisdiction.
Ive also thought about where this activity was carried out because we have rules that
govern our territorial remit.
We can sometimes cover complaints about businesses based in the European Economic
Area (EEA) if they have passported their authorisation into the UK from the EEA. This
means that, although they arent regulated from the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) becomes their host regulator, and they appear on the FCA register.
The DISP rules say our compulsory jurisdiction covers complaints about the activities of a
firm carried out from an establishment in the UK. BST is based in Lisbon, but it appears this
firm had a UK office in London.
The complaint is about a loan taken out in 2003 and the evidence suggests the management
of the account took place from the London office up until the firm closed their London branch
and all the loan agreements were transferred back to the Lisbon office.
It follows that I can consider BSTs actions and communications with Mr W before the loan
balance was transferred from the UK account in December 2018.
So, Ive gone on to think about the merits of the complaint on this basis.Ive thought about 
whether BST gave Mr W incorrect or misleading information in 2018, when it says his 
remaining loan facility balance was transferred from the UK to an equivalent account in 
Portugal.
BST has (through its representative) provided evidence of the following:
- It wrote to Mr W in May 2018 to let him know that its London Branch would be closing.
- It wrote to Mr W in August 2018 to confirm this and to let him know that his remaining
loan balance would be transferred to a Portuguese account. The letter gave Mr W a
couple of options and invited him to make contact if he had any questions about what
was happening.
- Around the same time, it notified Mr W of arrears on the account. Mr W contacted
BST in October 2018 asking for an outstanding balance, as he may be looking to pay
it off sooner.
- In December 2018, the loan balance was transferred from the existing UK account to
an equivalent Portuguese account.
Im also mindful of:
- It wrote to Mr W in December 2018 saying it had been trying to contact him about the
account arrears. It said it would very much like to engage with Mr W to see if it could
resolve the situation in a way that wouldnt involve the full recovery process and asked him 
to make contact.
- It wrote to Mr W in August 2019 noting the account was still in arrears and asking his
plans to pay them.
- It wrote to Mr W again in December 2019 about the arrears, asking Mr W to make
contact.
BST has also said that it would have sent Mr W statements covering October 2018 to
December 2018, either in December 2018 or January 2019 (but it hasnt provided evidence
of this).
None of the evidence provided so far (by either party) suggests that BST wrote to Mr W at
any point to say that his account had been settled / had a zero balance. At the same time,
the evidence I have seen from BST indicates that it has tried to contact Mr W since August
2018 about arrears on the account.
Taking all of this into account, I do not currently think there are any grounds to say that BST
has acted unfairly towards Mr W, in terms of its communications with him in 2018, in relation
to the status of the loan facility.I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 7 August 2023. BST 
said it had nothing further to add. Mr W responded to say he was away on holiday, there 
would be items hed want to add and that he required more time to access them. 
On 6 August 2023 Mr W requested an extension of at least 14 days from the end of that 
week, to be able to respond. I agreed an extension to 25 August 2023. 
Mr W provided a response to the PD. He said some fundamental issues had not been 
considered and that:
- There was clear confirmation from BST that the balance outstanding was zero at the 
end of 2018, in the form of a statement sent to the Portuguese solicitor who dealt 
with the property sale (and that if the solicitor had been advised differently, this 
couldve been addressed at the time).
- The property and mortgage sat with DL. Mr W himself had no liability as an 
individual. He could show clearly that BST had agreed contractually that the liability 
was to DL from the outset in 2003.
- The property was sold in 2019. The Portuguese solicitor was bound to have checked 
upon the sale whether there were any liabilities and as none was showing, the sale 
proceeded and DL was duly closed. 
- He could supply any of these documents to show this is fact.
What Ive decided about jurisdiction  and why
Neither party has provided any additional evidence and/or arguments in relation to the issue 
of what falls within my remit. As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I still find that I can consider BSTs actions and communications with Mr W before the loan
balance was transferred from the UK account in December 2018.
 
What Ive decided about the merits of the complaint  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
In response to my PD, Mr W says he can supply further documents to support his position 
that he isnt liable for any outstanding debt. However, Mr W has had the opportunity to 
provide any further evidence and/or arguments in relation to this complaint. He has not said 
why he has not provided documents he says that he can and that will support his case.
In any case, Im satisfied Mr W has had fair opportunity to provide anything further and so I 
can and will determine the case based on the evidence and arguments made to this point. 
Mr W says that the loan was taken out in DLs name and that he himself has never had any 
personal liability for the debt. As above, he says he can supply further documents to show 
that BST had agreed contractually that the liability was to DL from the outset in 2003. 
However, he hasnt provided any documents that show this.
What I have been provided with, is the loan facility letter dated 17 December 2003, a copy of which was sent to Mr W by BSTs representative in August 2021. The letter is addressed to 
Mr W (with no reference to DL in the address details) and says in the first paragraph you 
are the Borrower. Under the heading of Purpose, it says The loan will be made to 
facilitate the purchase by the Borrower of the entire share capital of DL..
This evidence suggests that Mr W is personally responsible for repayment of the loan facility 
and that liability did not rest with DL. 
Bearing this in mind, Ive thought again about whether BST gave Mr W incorrect or 
misleading information in 2018, when it says his remaining loan facility balance was 
transferred from the UK to an equivalent account in Portugal.
I still dont find that it did give incorrect or misleading information, for the reasons set out in 
the PD. I dont consider that anything Mr W has said in response to the PD materially 
changes anything in relation to BSTs communications with him, up to the end of 2018.
Mr W has suggested the actions of the Portuguese solicitor are significant but he hasnt 
provided any documentation to support what he says. He may (separate to this dispute) wish 
to contact the Portuguese solicitor if he believes it has made some kind of error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about Banco Santander Totta SA
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman