DRN-2276419
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Credit Card (Tesco 
Bank), were unreasonable when not upholding a claim he made to the under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and that they should also refund a late payment 
charge.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The merchant retained $200 for shipping costs when Mr W refused to pay the customs duty 
and a part delivery was returned to them. They also charged $150 for restocking.
Tesco Bank have refunded the equivalent of $150 as they didnt feel it was fair for the 
merchant to charge that. 
They havent refunded the shipping costs and Im not persuaded theyve been unfair when 
refusing to do so.
I say that because I am persuaded the UK Government hold the importer responsible for 
paying customs charges and that Mr W had been made aware of that as the merchants 
website explains International orders pay duties and taxes separately. Im persuaded this 
warning would have appeared when Mr W checked out. In those circumstances, the 
merchant hasnt breached its contract with Mr W and their terms and conditions prevail and 
allow them to retain shipping costs.
Mr W also complains that as Tesco Bank were late issuing statements they should not have 
charged him a £12 late payment fee. I think its reasonable to suggest Mr W should have 
known a payment was due on his account irrespective of being provided with a statement.  
Im further persuaded that would be the case because Tesco Bank have explained they 
refunded a previous late payment charge on a goodwill basis for similar issues. I dont 
therefore think it would be fair to tell Tesco Bank to refund this late payment charge.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman