DRN-4026640
The complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA turned down his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M holds travel insurance cover through AWP. He made a claim for personal possessions 
and money after he was robbed abroad.
AWP turned down the claim because the police report said Mr Ms home address was in the 
country where the robbery happened. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr M had provided a 
reasonable explanation for the police report stating he lived in that country, and was satisfied 
that Mr M lives in the UK. The investigator recommended that AWP pay the claim, plus 
interest. He also recommended AWP pay Mr M £150 compensation for the delay in making 
a claims decision.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that cover is only available for residents of the UK, Channel Islands or 
Isle of Man. The policy provides cover for loss of personal possessions and personal money 
(subject to policy limits).
AWP turned down the claim because the police report completed by Mr M stated that he was 
residing at an address in the country where the robbery happened. The report also asked for 
his residential address, and Mr M gave the same address. 
Mr M says the robbery happened outside the address where he was staying whilst on his 
trip, and he thought the police report was asking him about that location. 
AWP hasnt provided any evidence (apart from the police report) to support its view that 
Mr M isnt a UK resident. If it had concerns about this, it could have easily asked Mr M for 
evidence that he lived in the UK, but it doesnt appear to have done so.   
As our investigator has said, Mr M has provided a flight booking invoice which shows he was 
only in that country for a few weeks. I also note that Mr M has provided receipts of the items 
claimed for, and these were purchased in the UK before he started his trip. He also 
purchased his travel money in the UK ahead of his trip. Finally, Mr M has also provided his 
most recent council tax bill which shows he currently lives in the UK. This evidence all 
supports that Mr M is a UK resident.
On balance, Im satisfied Mr M has shown he was only visiting the country where the robbery 
happened, and hes given a reasonable explanation for the police report including the wrong 
home address. I note that Mr M reported the theft to the police within 24 hours, as required 
by the policy. So I find that AWP should pay the claim.
Mr M made the claim in May 2022, but a claims decision was not made until November 
2022. Although AWP apologised for the delay, I agree with our investigator that it should pay 
Mr M £150 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused by the length of time taken 
to make a claims decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay the claim 
subject to the remaining policy terms. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
AWP should also pay Mr M £150 compensation.
* If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman