DRN-3770112
The complaint
Mr P complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to notify him of a new 
customer administration fee before it applied the fee to his share dealing account. He also 
complains about the delays he experienced when he phoned its contact centre and tried to 
connect to its web chat service. 
What happened
In 2021 HSDL contacted its customers about an administration fee it was introducing of £36 
per year. I understand that the fee was applied to customer accounts from April 2022.
HSDL have provided evidence to this service to show that it emailed Mr P four times about 
the new fee and the options open to him if he didnt want to incur the fee. Its records show it 
emailed Mr P in March and November 2021 and again in February and March 2022. HSDL 
also provided evidence to show it wrote to Mr P about the new fee in December 2021. 
Mr P says he did not receive the emails or the letter from HSDL. When Mr P noticed that the 
fee had been applied to his account, he tried to contact HSDL, but had trouble getting 
through to a representative by phone and on its web chat service.
Mr P complained to HSDL as he felt it had applied the fee unfairly as he had not received 
any of the correspondence that had been sent about the fee. Mr P explained that he didnt 
use his share dealing account and would have closed it if he had been aware that an 
administration fee would be applied to the account.
HSDL did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it had contacted him on a number of 
occasions ahead of the introduction of the administration fee and had set out the options 
available if he did not want to incur the fee. It also apologised for the problems Mr P had 
experienced when he tried to contact it to close his account. It confirmed that it was in the 
process of closing Mr Ps account and returning the money in the account to him.
Mr P was not satisfied with HSDLs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered Mr Ps complaint our investigator said he didnt think HSDL had acted 
incorrectly. He said he was satisfied, based on the evidence that had been provided, that 
HSDL had contacted Mr P five times, once by post and four times by email, to notify him of 
the new administration fee. 
He also said that although he was sympathetic to Mr Ps concerns about the delay he 
experienced when he tried to contact HSDL, it had explained that it was experiencing higher 
than expected call volumes when Mr P contacted it. The investigator acknowledged that this 
wasnt ideal, but said these issues can occur on occasion, and he noted that HSDL had 
apologised for any inconvenience this had caused Mr P.
Mr P did not accept our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be determined by 
an ombudsman. He said;
In summary, I feel it is unfair that a company can charge you a fee, even if I the customer did 
not receive notification of this. This means that all companies could send out a letter or email 
in a hope that a few won't arrive and then the fee is charged without the customer ever 
knowing about it or agreeing to it. I feel this is fundamentally unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ps position, and I appreciate that he feels HSDL should have made 
more effort to ensure he received the information it sent to him notifying him of the 
administration fee it was introducing.
I have very carefully considered the evidence and information that has been provided. 
Having done so, like our investigator, I am satisfied that the letter HSDL sent to Mr P was 
correctly addressed and sent. I appreciate that Mr P feels HSDL should have sent the letter 
by recorded delivery, or telephoned him to confirm receipt of the letter, but there was no 
requirement on HSDL to do so. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably find that it acted 
incorrectly when it sent the letter by normal mail. I appreciate that Mr P says he did not 
receive the letter, but I cannot hold HSDL responsible for any failings by the postal service.
With regard to the emails HSDL sent to Mr P, it is very unfortunate that Mr P did not receive 
these emails. But, as it appears the email address HSDL used was an email address held by 
Mr P, I cannot safely find that HSDL was responsible for Mr P not receiving these emails. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr P was hoping for, but in the absence of 
anything to show the letter was incorrectly addressed or that an incorrect email address was 
used I cannot reasonably hold HSDL responsible for the non-receipt of the communications 
it sent. 
I understand that the account has now been closed and the cash balance has been returned 
to Mr P.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman