DRN-3285140
The complaint
Mr H complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr H with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment
24/8/2017 £3,000 24 months £241.51
Mr H applied for the loan for the purpose of debt consolidation  in other words, Mr H said he 
would use the loan to repay other debt. 
When Mr H complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She didnt think that 
118 118 Money had done anything wrong when it provided the loan. Our adjudicator 
explained why she was recommending that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Mr H that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information. Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr H about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Hs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr H wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county 
court judgements registered. 
An old defaulted account from a few years earlier appeared to be inactive, so I can 
understand why repaying that account might not have been a spending priority for Mr H and 
I dont think this information alone wouldve provided a lender with much useful insight into 
Mr Hs current financial situation. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of 
lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these 
wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend.
Mr H had an outstanding short-term loan hed taken out just the week before and hed been 
using a large part of his £3,200 overdraft for the previous 3 months. But set against this, 
Mr H had a significant amount of available credit he wasnt using. 
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr H seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had any serious 
money problems. 
I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Hs credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out 
was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out 
more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether. 
And bearing in mind that this loan was intended for debt consolidation, I think in these 
circumstances 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested 
Mr H was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more responsibly  and it 
looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Hs income and 
expenditure. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Hs finances or ask Mr H to prove what he was declaring (by 
requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources 
to verify what he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr H. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr H in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr H but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman