DRN-2944442
The complaint
Miss K complains that TSB Bank plc declined to refund a payment she didnt recognise as 
being made from her account.
What happened
Miss K was working from home and had a visit from her father. At one stage during his visit 
he asked to borrow Miss Ks phone to make a call. The next morning, Miss K realised there 
was a payment made from her account that she didnt recognise and contacted TSB about it.
Miss K told TSB that she hadnt made the transaction and it happened while Miss K was 
working from home and no-one else could have made the transaction.
Miss K said that her phone wasnt working properly, and shed disabled the security controls 
to access her phone. Miss K said that she had a difficult relationship with her father, and 
hed taken money from her account before without her permission.
TSB looked into the transaction and asked the receiving bank about the account the money 
was sent to and they were told that no funds remained in the account. After further 
investigation by TSB, they decided not to refund the money. TSB examined the audit 
evidence related to the transaction and it showed that Miss Ks genuine device, using the 
same Internet Protocol (IP) address as previous successful logins had been used to access 
the mobile banking service. 
TSB confirmed that biometric data (a fingerprint) had been used to open the banking app on 
Miss Ks phone and was also used to authorise the new payee that received the money from 
her account. Because this evidence was different to what Miss K told TSB, they closed the 
account and made a report to Cifas  a national fraud prevention organisation. 
Miss K complained to TSB about the lack of refund and after the complaint was further 
investigated, TSB didnt change their decision about how theyd handled the situation.
Miss K was unhappy with the outcome and brought her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Miss K told our service that shed had previous problems with 
fraudulent transactions and TSB had refunded them. She also said that shed recently lost 
her debit card just before the disputed transaction was made.
Miss Ks complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that it was 
reasonable for TSB to hold Miss K responsible for making the transaction due to the 
evidence provided by TSB, including the biometric evidence. The investigator pointed out 
that Miss K had used her mobile banking app to access her phone several times before and 
after the payment was made on the day of the payment. Whereas, Miss K had originally told 
our service that she hadnt checked her account until the next day, when she first noticed the 
missing money.
Miss K disagreed with the outcome and stressed it wasnt her that made the payment and 
that it may have been a scammer. She didnt recognise the beneficiary of the payment and 
continued to make the point that her phone wasnt using the biometric security feature 
because it wasnt working properly.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that TSB can hold Miss K liable for the disputed payment if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made it or authorised it.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, TSB have supplied evidence that 
shows the new payee was set up and the payment authorised using biometric identification  
in this case Miss Ks fingerprint. Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction 
was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which TSB and Miss K agreed to operate the account to allow 
TSB to make payments on Miss Ks behalf. For example, TSBs terms and conditions set out 
that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the account holder uses 
their security details to confirm the payment, then TSB accept that the instruction to make 
the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because Miss K used her fingerprint to 
open the mobile app and confirm the payment- Im satisfied that consent was given and the 
disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for TSB to hold Miss K responsible, for example if the mobile app was used 
without her permission.
Miss K has stressed that the relationship with her father was very difficult and hed taken 
money from her before. On the day of the disputed payment, Miss K told us she was working 
from home when her father visited and asked to use her mobile phone to make a call and 
later returned the phone. Miss K isnt certain that it was her father who made the disputed 
payment, but shes said that it couldnt have been anyone else in the house at the time. Miss 
K thought it may have been a scammer who took the payment, but Ive seen no evidence 
that it was anything other than Miss Ks device that was used to make the payment.
So, from what Ive been told here - there were only two people present who could have 
accessed the phone on the day the disputed transaction was made  Miss K and her father. 
Miss Ks testimony is that she disabled the biometric security from her phone because the 
phone wasnt working properly and has since replaced the phone. That would mean the 
phone could be used by anyone for its basic function like making a phone call, but this isnt 
the case for the banking app on her phone.
Thats because TSB have explained that their banking app requires the user to input their 
security credentials into the app to open it and again to confirm a payment to another 
persons account. Miss K has said her father knew her passcodes because hed used her 
phone before, but TSBs information shows that it wasnt a passcode that was used to open 
and confirm the transaction, it was the fingerprint registered to the app  Miss Ks.
Miss K wasnt aware of any other fingerprints registered on her device and Ive considered if 
anyone else could have used the banking app. TSB confirmed that their system recognised Miss Ks unique fingerprint, so I dont think it was likely that anyone other than Miss K used 
her mobile banking app.
Also, I dont think anyone else was using it because Miss K has since said she was using the 
app after the payment was sent out of her account, despite what she told our service when 
she first reported the transaction  where she said she hadnt checked her phone until the 
next morning. Miss K explained that she was waiting for two payments to come into her 
account, which is why she was using her app. But, it was these two payments that funded 
the transaction that Miss K is disputing. Prior to receiving these two payments the balance 
was less than £50 and for the disputed transaction to leave the account, it must already have 
been funded by the two incoming payments Miss K was expecting. 
So, when Miss K used her mobile banking app later that evening, I think it would have been 
apparent that the two payments had already arrived, and the disputed transaction left her 
account. I say that because the reason Miss K gave for using the app later that night was to 
check whether the two payments had been made, so I dont think its likely that she would 
have failed to notice them in her account along with the transaction shes disputing, as it was 
the sole reason for looking at her account.
The audit data from TSB shows that Miss Ks registered device made the transaction from 
the same IP address as previous successful transactions and that it was used in the evening 
after the disputed transaction left the account. The evidence that Ive reviewed leads me to 
the conclusion that because the banking app was opened by a fingerprint and the payment 
authorised by a fingerprint, from Miss Ks registered device using a known IP address, its 
more than likely this was done by Miss K.
Miss K also informed us that she had been a previous victim of fraudulent activity on her 
account and had two refunds from TSB. She also advised that just prior to the disputed 
transaction, shed reported her debit card as lost and was waiting for a new one. Ive looked 
into the details of these previous problems and they were related to unauthorised use of 
Miss Ks debit card. Having possession of the debit card wouldnt automatically give access 
to the bank account and I dont think its likely theyre related to the disputed transaction from 
her bank account which was made using her registered mobile device, which wasnt lost or 
stolen.
Beneficiary Account
Further enquiries were carried out with the beneficiary account holders bank by TSB at the 
time of Miss Ks claim and they were told that no funds remained. When this was looked into 
further, it was apparent that as soon as Miss Ks funds were received into the account, they 
were transferred out. Miss K has said she doesnt know this person and the account 
behaviour is certainly suggestive of fraudulent activity. Because I think it was more than 
likely that Miss K was responsible for making the transaction in the first place, the activity on 
the beneficiary account isnt evidence that Miss K didnt make the transaction.
Account closure and Cifas
TSB can choose to end their relationship with an account holder, just as Miss K can choose 
to end her relationship with TSB. But, TSB must follow the terms and conditions of the 
agreement between them when they do this. The terms set out when they can close the 
account immediately and one of those reasons is if the account holder is acting fraudulently.
TSB told Miss K that they were closing the account but didnt give a reason. Whilst theyve 
said they didnt have to tell Miss K the reason for immediately closing the account, the fact 
that theyve also made report to Cifas indicates they think Miss K was involved in fraud. As Ive made a finding that Miss K more than likely made the transaction herself, it follows that I 
think TSB acted reasonably when they closed the account immediately.
TSB also loaded a marker against Miss K with Cifas, who are a national fraud prevention 
organisation. A marker cant be loaded unless TSB have sufficient evidence that they could 
confidently report the conduct to the police and that it goes beyond mere suspicion. The 
specific marker loaded by TSB is a Category 6  Misuse of Facility  False fraud claim.
So, Ive looked at what evidence TSB have used to load the marker against Miss K, which 
mainly consists of the authentication evidence that her fingerprint was used to make the 
transaction, that it was made from her genuine device using a known IP address and 
together with Miss Ks testimony that she didnt make the transaction. Ive already made a 
finding about the authorisation of the payment and fingerprint evidence is unlikely to be 
anyone other than the registered user, in this case, Miss K. So, I think TSB had more than 
mere suspicion when they notified Cifas and I think it was reasonable for TSB to load a 
Misuse of Facility marker against Miss K.  
Im sure Miss K will disagree with my decision, but its based on an objective assessment of 
the evidence from both parties. Miss Ks testimony isnt supported by the technical evidence 
from TSB. I also didnt find the reason Miss K gave for accessing her mobile banking service 
after both incoming payments and the disputed transaction had left her account to be likely. I 
think that it was more likely than not that Miss K authorised the transaction herself and it was 
reasonable for TSB to hold her liable for it.
Because TSBs evidence is at odds with Miss Ks claim, they no longer wished to provide 
banking services to her, and the closure of the account was a reasonable decision for them 
to make. Im also satisfied TSB met the test for loading a Cifas marker and wont be 
instructing them to change it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman