DRN-3161467
The complaint
Mr E complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) incorrectly charged interest on his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr E says in September 2019 he applied for a 0% interest balance transfer offer on his 
Lloyds credit card account. Mr E says despite him making the monthly payments he needed, 
to cover his monthly transactions, Lloyds charged him interest when they shouldnt have and 
also incorrectly reduced the sum of his 0% interest balance. Mr E says despite him asking 
Lloyds for an explanation, this was simply dismissed as normal interest charges. Mr E says 
Lloyds didnt make it clear that he would have needed to have a separate credit card 
account if he wanted to take full benefit of the 0% interest balance transfer offer. Mr E wants 
Lloyds to refund any interest charged to his credit card account while the balance transfer 
offer was in place. 
Lloyds says they have correctly charged the interest due on Mr Es credit card account 
balance. Lloyds says to avoid any interest charges, Mr E would have needed to pay the full 
balance on his credit card account including the balance transfer element. Lloyds says they 
have done nothing wrong.
Mr E wasnt happy with the response from Lloyds and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Lloyds had acted fairly when they charged the interest to Mr Es credit 
card account and this was detailed in the terms and conditions of the credit card agreement, 
along with  how payments are allocated to reduce any outstanding balance. The investigator 
felt that although Lloyds hadnt treated Mr Es original query regarding the interest as a 
complaint, they had attempted to resolve this informally. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr E to have thought he 
didnt have to pay interest under the 0% interest balance transfer offer hed taken, only to 
find that wasnt the case. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds have acted 
fairly when they charged the interest to Mr Es credit card account and correctly reduced the 
balance transfer element of his outstanding balance with them, when they did. 
As far as Mr Es issue about Lloyds not dealing with his complaint initially, I should point out 
its not the role of this service to scrutinise Lloyds complaints process or to tell Lloyds how it 
should deal with complaints more widely. I know Mr E is unhappy with the way Lloyds have 
answered and handled his complaint   but my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of a complaint. And so, Ill be looking at Mr Es complaint about 
the interest offer issues he encountered. All I would say, from the information I have seen, is 
Lloyds perhaps tried to deal with this informally rather than logging a full complaint, but I am 
satisfied that in itself wouldnt have impacted on the outcome here. 
Mr E says he took out a 0% interest offer on his Lloyds credit card account and didnt expect 
to pay interest on any of the outstanding balance, especially given he had met his monthly 
credit card commitments on time. Mr Es complaint centres around this point, and also that 
on occasions some payments he made, were used by Lloyds, in reduction of the 0% interest 
balance element of his outstanding balance when they shouldnt have. 
I understand the points Mr E makes here, but its fair to say the offer he received from Lloyds 
was for 0% interest on balance transfers and from the credit card statements I have seen, for 
the duration of that offer, no interest was charged on any outstanding balance transfer on his 
credit card account. So, I cant say Lloyds havent kept to that arrangement.
Mr E was expecting not to have to pay any interest on his credit card account, provided he 
made his due monthly payments on time. I understand Mr E feels that Lloyds didnt make it 
clear how the interest rate offer worked to him when took up the offer, and its counter 
intuitive to have a 0% interest credit card account and then to be charged for it. That said,  
Im not persuaded by his argument. I say this because in the terms and conditions of his 
credit card it says under sections A4 and B4.
Purchases: We do not charge interest on purchases made during your latest statement 
period if you pay off your full balance (including any balance transfers and money transfers) 
by the payment due date and you also paid your previous months balance in full by the due 
date. 
So here it is saying, even though Mr E may not have thought so, unless you pay off the full 
balance each month you are liable to pay interest on any purchases made during the latest 
statement period. From the information I have seen that is what Lloyds have done here. 
In addition, on his monthly credit card statements it also explains, in a paragraph before the 
breakdown of balance, it says :
If you do not pay off the full amount outstanding, we will allocate your payment to the 
outstanding balance in a specific order, which is set out in the Summary Box on this 
statement. The way in which payments are allocated can make a significant difference to the 
amount of interest you will pay until the balance is cleared completely.
Also, under section B7.4 of the terms and conditions it says:
We use your payments to clear any overdue amounts before we apply them to your latest 
minimum payment.
We will reduce the amount you owe in the following order:
 any overdue amounts from previous statements; then
 the remaining balance on your statement; then
 any recent transactions not yet shown on your statement.We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest rate first and so 
on down to balances with the lowest interest rates. This means the more expensive 
balances are always paid off first.
So here it explains that when Mr E makes a payment into his credit card account the monies 
are allocated to reduce the remaining balance on your statement, that would include the 
element at 0% as this is still part of that remaining balance outstanding. 
Its reasonable to say that it remains the responsibility of Mr E to check the terms and 
conditions of his credit card before making payments from or into that credit card account, 
and if he was unsure in anyway, he could have contacted Lloyds for a fuller explanation 
before he took up the balance transfer offer. 
Mr E feels Lloyds should have explained he would have been better placed, taking out a 
separate card for the interest free offer and retaining his exiting card for purchases, to avoid 
paying interest on these purchases. While I understand what Mr E is saying here, the fact is 
Mr E took out the offer on his existing credit card account and if he wanted any further 
clarification of how the offer would benefit him, he did have the opportunity to discuss this 
with Lloyds first - details on how to contact them are made clear on Mr Es monthly credit 
card statement. Its not for this service to tell Lloyds how they must make available any offers 
like this, to its customers. 
While Mr E will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman