DRN-2466563
The complaint
Mr S is a director of a company Ill refer to as U. Hes complained on Us behalf about the
way Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on Us commercial vehicle
insurance.
For ease of reading reference to Markerstudy includes its agents.
What happened
U called Markerstudy to claim on their policy after one of their drivers was involved in an
accident. U agreed to use Markerstudys approved repairer and thought that was for an
estimate for the repairs. However, Markerstudy said U had agreed to the repairs being
carried out by the approved repairer and as such the garage had ordered parts for the repair.
U said they initially didnt realise they needed to pay the VAT element of the claim but once
they realised that they did, they asked Markerstudy and the garage to let them know how
much it would be. U said Markerstudy didnt keep them informed which meant U wasnt able
to decide if it could afford the repairs. U thought Markerstudy should have explained the
process to them more clearly.
Markerstudy said the garage wasnt able to return the parts and as such gave U the options
of either paying for the cost of the parts or Markerstudy paying for the parts, but this would
affect Us no claims discount (NCD).
Mr S complained to Markerstudy. He was also unhappy that Markerstudy hadnt done
enough to investigate the claim and that Markerstudy had spoken to one of Us employees
about the claim without authorisation. He said hed also been given inconsistent information
about the cost of the parts and Markerstudy had consistently caused them difficulties, such
as through initially stating the wrong amount of excess.
Markerstudy apologised for speaking to one of Us employees and accepted it could have
done more to investigate the claim. It sent U a cheque for £150 to compensate for this.
However, it said it had followed its usual processes and that U would need to pay for any
losses on the parts the garage had ordered.
Mr S brought Us complaint to us. He said hed had the vehicle repaired and wanted
Markerstudy to record the incident as notification only against Us record.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 December 2020. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I dont intend to address each one but will focus
my decision on what I consider to be the central issues of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Us policy say that Markerstudy wont pay the VAT element of
repairs. This is common in commercial policies and Markerstudy provided Mr S with
information from HMRC to explain why. It seems there was some confusion around this
initially as Mr S said U hadnt received the new policy documents from the broker at renewal.
However, he accepted that he would need to pay the VAT a couple of days after making the
claim. He said once he knew U would need to pay VAT he asked Markerstudy and the
garage to let him know the costs.
Its unfortunate that Mr S hadnt been sent the new policy documents, but I cant hold
Markerstudy responsible for that. Ive listened to calls between Mr S and Markerstudy where
VAT was discussed. However, the calls Ive been sent focus on whether Markerstudy or U is
responsible for paying the VAT. I do think these calls became unproductive due to Mr S
feeling that Markerstudy was responsible for paying the VAT. But I havent been provided
with any calls to show that Markerstudy explained to Mr S what would happen once hed
agreed Markerstudy wasnt liable for the VAT.
Mr S said he thought he was taking his vehicle in for an estimate and Markerstudy would
then let him know how much he needed to pay. Instead Markerstudy approved the repairs
and Mr S only found out how much hed need to pay once the repairs had been approved.
Ive seen Markerstudys notes and can see Mr S was told to bring his vehicle in for an
estimate. So, I can understand why he didnt think the repairs would be authorised without
further discussion.
As U was responsible for paying the VAT element of the claim, I think Markerstudy should
have either let him know how much that would be or checked that he wanted to go ahead
irrespective of cost. I say that because its important for companies to know how much they
will be required to pay. And while Markerstudy knows its process, Mr S didnt.
As I think Markerstudy should have told Mr S the costs involved in the claim sooner, Ive
thought about whether this caused him a loss. I think it has and Ill now explain why.
The amount U would be required to spend in the event of a claim is clearly very important to
them. I say that because when faced with paying VAT and the excess they decided to get
the repairs done themselves. So, if Markerstudy had let them know the cost of repairs, I
dont think U would have gone ahead with them. I think U would have withdrawn their claim.
As such, I dont think its fair and reasonable that U is liable for the cost of the parts the
garage ordered on Markerstudys authorisation. And I dont think the cost of the parts should
be reflected in Us claim.
Ive thought about the fact that the reason the garage wasnt able to return the parts seems
to have been due to the time between them being ordered and Mr S deciding he didnt want
to go ahead with the claim. And Markerstudys notes suggest that was because it wasnt
able to provide him with the hire van he wanted. I dont think this was Markerstudys fault, as
the policy says its not required to provide a like for like vehicle. However, I dont think it
would be fair and reasonable to make U liable for the cost of the parts due to this delay. I say
that because I think U would have withdrawn the claim sooner if theyd known how much
they needed to pay towards the parts.
To put U back in the position they would have been in if Markerstudy had let Mr S know how
much the repairs would cost them I intend to find that Markerstudy should mark the claim as
notification only, not charge U for the parts and not treat the price of the parts as being a loss
under his policy. This should also not affect Us NCD as he is not claiming on the policy.
As liability hasnt yet been established Im not going to comment on that in this decision.
However, I can look at Markerstudys actions in looking into the claim. I can see that
Markerstudy accepted it should have done more and sent U £150 to compensate. I think thisis a fair and reasonable amount as Markerstudy caused some delays, but I dont think it will
make a significant difference to the overall claim, as it can take some time to resolve a claim
where liability is in dispute.
I can see that Markerstudy did provide different costs for the parts when writing to Mr S in
July 2019. However, it provided the correct information in later correspondence, so I dont
intend to require it to do anything further.
Mr S didnt provide any further comments. Markerstudy responded to say it didnt agree. It 
thought the reason U hadnt gone ahead with the claim was because they werent entitled to 
a like for like vehicle, rather than because of the cost of VAT. Markerstudy said U would 
have been able to claim with VAT back within a few months and if U had been concerned 
about the cost of VAT they would have queried it sooner, rather than entering into 
discussions about a courtesy vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the notes Markerstudy provided that Mr S was unhappy that he wouldnt be 
provided with a like for like vehicle while his was being repaired. But the notes also say that 
Mr S told the repairers that the courtesy vehicle wasnt the only issue hed raised with 
Markerstudy that needed resolving before hed book the van in for repairs. The notes dont 
indicate that Mr S queried the amount of VAT while discussing a possible date for repairs, 
but thats not enough to persuade me that this didnt contribute to U deciding to withdraw the 
claim.  
I appreciate that U would have been able to claim the VAT back within a few months, but 
that doesnt mean they would have had the money available to spend at that time. Also, 
knowing how much theyd need to claim is likely to have impacted their decision on whether 
the value of the claim meant it was worth having the claim recorded. So, I remain persuaded 
by their testimony that they wouldnt have gone ahead with the repairs if they had known 
how much they needed to pay for them, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
As such I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to:
Record the incident as notification only if U withdraws their claim.
Not treat the costs of the parts as a loss under Us policy or as an amount U is liable
            to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman