DRN-2949411
The complaint
Mr H2, as representative of Mr H1 and the estate of Mrs H, complains on their behalf that 
they were given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plc, referred to as the business.
In short, Mr H2 says:
The advice to invest in an Estate Planning Service (EPS) run by a third-party 
business was unsuitable for Mr H1 and Mrs H. 
The business didnt carry out proper due diligence into the product and the third-party 
business and didnt explain the risks involved.
The investment underperformed and Mr H1 and Mrs H lost out financially. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr H1 and Mrs H were advised to invest £320,000 of their money  available from 
several other investments  equally into three Inheritance Tax (IHT) schemes, including just 
under £107,000 in the EPS, for the purposes of mitigating their IHT liability. This case 
concerns only the EPS element of the advice. 
In 2019 the EPS began to underperform and Mr H1 and Mrs H were notified of what was 
happening. Mr H1 suggests that they wouldnt have invested in the EPS if theyd been told 
about the risk of losing their money. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said he was satisfied that the recommendation was suitable. He was 
persuaded that the business had conducted proper due diligence into the EPS and the third-
party running the scheme. He also said that the business made reasonably clear the higher 
risks involved which Mr H1 and Mrs H had accepted. 
Mr H2 disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, he said:
Mr H1 and Mrs H were only experienced investors in the sense that they followed 
investment advice. But they werent experienced in making their own judgement. 
He believes Mr H1 and Mrs H were lulled in by a false sense of security. As per his 
letters to the business, they invested in good faith. 
The business said that it guarantees that its advice will be suitable. The use of the 
word guarantee is misleading and doesnt represent reality.  
The wording of the document doesnt really highlight the specific risks involved. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The decision whether (or not) to proceed with a recommendation, was always with 
Mr H1 and Mrs H.  
They wouldve built up their experience over the years. Hes seen nothing to suggest 
they didnt know what they were doing. 
The word guarantee was in relation to the advice and not the product. The business 
didnt give a guarantee that the product would succeed. 
The product brochure mentioned that the product was high risk, and there was a risk 
of losing money because of this. But this was the same risk as the other Enterprise 
Investment Schemes (EIS) Mr H1 and Mrs H had invested in. 
Mr H1 and Mrs H signed documentation confirming that they were aware of the risks 
involved and were happy to proceed. 
Mr H2 disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Mr H1 and Mrs H trusted the business and were lulled into a sense of (false) security 
over the years. 
Its unlikely that people will understand the subtle difference in the term guarantee 
used to describe the recommendation and the investment returns. 
This was a much higher risk investment than was previously made. 
This particular scheme wasnt properly investigated by the business before the 
recommendation was made. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H2 says, Im unable to safely 
say that the recommendation to invest a third of their available money in an EPS run by a 
third-party business was unsuitable for IHT purposes, on the basis that that it didnt perform 
in the way that theyd hoped. I understand that this complaint is only about the EPS part of 
the advice run by a third-party business, and not the other two investments. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr H1s s strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the loss of 
Mrs H and the ill health that Mr H1 has recently been experiencing recently. I recognise that 
it must be an extremely difficult time for him and the family. 
Their son, Mr H2, has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H2 and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.I note that in 2017 Mr H1 and Mrs H were in their late 80s, retired and with a reasonable 
amount of investment experience over several decades. It was recorded that they had 
between a medium to high attitude to risk and were prepared to invest in an EPS for 
purposes of mitigating their IHT liability. 
Im mindful that this wasnt their first time investing in this sort of scheme, and that they had 
done so, for similar purposes, on previous occasions. Therefore, it was likely that they 
understood the general nature and operation of these schemes and the general risks 
involved. 
I note that Mr H1 and Mrs H had around £80,000 invested in other EIS schemes, around 
£800,000 invested in Discounted Gift Trusts, and around £60,000 invested in an IHT tax 
scheme. They also had investments in stocks and shares, ISAs and an offshore bond. I 
understand that they had assets totalling around £2,065,000, including a property worth 
£700,000. Whether or not Mr H1 and Mrs H were experienced investors, in the 
circumstances, I cant say that they werent without (reasonably) substantial financial 
experience.  
Im satisfied that Mr H1 and Mrs H were provided with documentation that made clear the 
risks involved in the EIS. The Information Memorandum for example, makes clear that the 
value of their investment could go up as well as down and that it wasnt guaranteed, and that 
companies invested through the EPS run by a third-party company, may fail resulting in their 
securities being sold for significantly less than the amount paid for them. Furthermore, that 
Mr H1 and Mrs H could lose part or all of their capital. I dont think this style of warning is 
generic, on the contrary it brings home the stark reality of investing in higher risk products. 
The suitability report also makes clear that they may not get back the money that they 
invested, with an emphasis that they may not get back what they put in, and that past 
performance wasnt indicative of future performance.  
Im mindful that unlike other options, the recommendation meant that the money would fall 
outside of their estate after two years, rather than seven years. Given their ages and 
circumstances, I think this wouldve appealed to Mr H1 and Mrs H. Whilst I appreciate the 
higher risks involved, Im mindful that other options were discussed and discounted on the 
basis that in the circumstances they didnt fulfil their need. I understand that Mr H1 and Mrs 
H didnt want to make outright gifts and trust planning was discounted on the basis that it 
was subject to survival for seven years which wasnt suitable. Evidently, they were looking 
for a solution.
Despite their ages, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H1 and Mrs H werent capable of 
making their own decisions, or that there was any issue with their judgement. I also note 
they confirmed that they were in good health, therefore the adviser could only advise on the 
basis of the information provided. On balance, I think its more likely (than not) that Mr H1 
and Mrs H were willing to take a higher risk, given the potential advantages of this scheme. I 
note it was recorded:
You confirmed you are both Upper-Medium risk investors on our risk spectrum who is
willing to accept a High level of investment risk in light of the tax advantages on offer but
accept that this will be at a high risk to your capital.
In the circumstances, it seems to me Mr H1 and Mrs H  who were normally upper-medium 
risk investors  were willing to accept a high/higher risk for this investment. In other words, 
they were willing to invest a proportion of their overall wealth in higher-risk assets in light of 
the considerable IHT benefits but recognised there was also a higher risk to their capital.I note that on this occasion they were advised to split £320,000 equally between three 
providers for the purposes of diversification and risk sharing which I also think was 
reasonable.  
I note Mr H1 and Mrs H confirmed that they could afford to have the investment fall without it 
effecting their standard of living. I note they had a reasonable amount of money  in the sum 
of £35,000  available for emergencies, and this was more than what the business would 
normally recommend. I note despite being retired, they had a net monthly income of over 
£5,000 and out goings of £4,000 which left them with over a £1,000 net monthly disposable 
income. So, its likely that, in terms of their capital and income, they also had some capacity 
to deal with any loss.
I agree with the investigator that the due diligence conducted by the business was 
reasonable, and that it carried out all the checks that it needed to. Despite what Mr H2 says, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business didnt understand the product or didnt fully 
appreciate the risks. Im aware it says that decisions about which companies to invest in 
were left to the third-party business. In the circumstances I cant blame the business for the 
actions of third-party businesses.  
I note what Mr H2 says about the loss sustained by Mr H1 and the estate of Mrs H. But the 
performance of an investment isnt an isolated issue that our service would generally 
consider a complaint about. Thats because performance is dependent on several factors, 
and not something that a business can predict or has control over. So, in this instance, the 
investment not performing in the way that Mr H1 and Mrs H mightve expected, doesnt 
mean that the recommendation by the business was unsuitable.  
I appreciate what Mr H1 says about the use of the word guarantee, and how that might imply 
its recommendation is guaranteed to be suitable. But whether (or not) a business can 
guarantee to provide suitable advice, its not the same as guaranteeing a return on an 
investment. In other words, a product isnt unsuitable just because it doesnt make money, 
unless its guaranteed to provide a return, which isnt the case here. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr H1 and Mrs H were guaranteed to make a return. 
I appreciate Mr H1 will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he and the estate of Mrs H want to hear. 
Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the 
face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
him and the estate of Mrs H what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman