DRN-2684604
The complaint
Miss D and Mr L complain that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) did not properly advise them 
that their bank account did not support direct debits. They want Metro Bank to pay them 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss D and Mr L opened an account with Metro Bank.
They completed an application for a cash account and the account was opened.
Confirmation was sent to them providing the terms and conditions of the account and
confirming that the account was a cash account.
Miss D and Mr L did not immediately use the account, making one deposit in March 2020
and then transferring the funds out of the account.
They then began using the account with greater frequency from around September 2020.
Miss D and Mr L tried to set up a direct debit to pay a regular bill. The provider advised them
that it was not able to set up the direct debit.
Miss D and Mr L called Metro Bank in late September 2020, from Mr Ls phone.
They explained to the agent that they had been advised by their provider that the direct debit
had failed. The adviser told them that he could see no evidence of a direct debit being set
up.
Towards the end of the call, Mr L asked if he could change their account into a current
account. The adviser told him that this could not be done over the phone and that Miss D
and Mr L would have to attend a branch to change their account.
A couple of weeks later, Miss D and Mr L became fully aware that their account could not
support direct debits and they complained to Metro Bank.
They said that they had been in touch in late September 2020 and that they had been told
that direct debits should work as normal, and that they had not been told that their cash
account would not support this type of payment.
Metro Bank responded to this complaint in October 2020. It said that it could not find the call
that Miss D and Mr L referred to and could not find evidence that they had been wrongly
advised. Metro Bank therefore did not uphold their complaint.
Miss D and Mr L were not happy with this and contacted us.
When investigating the complaint, the investigator alerted Metro Bank that the September
2020 call had come from Mr Ls number, and Metro Bank was then able to locate and
provide a call recording.
One of our investigators considered this matter and felt that Miss D and Mr L had not been 
properly advised about the facilities of the cash account at the time of opening it. She 
therefore felt that Metro Bank ought to pay £100 compensation to Miss D and Mr L.
Metro Bank did not accept that view. 
I set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision issued in February 2020. In this I 
explained that, on the evidence available, I was not persuaded that Metro Bank had done 
anything substantially wrong, such as to justify a payment of compensation. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
submit any additional comments and evidence.   
Metro Bank has indicated that it has nothing further to add. 
Miss D and Mr L have provided additional comments. 
These set out that:
1) They made it absolutely clear to the member of staff who met with them to open the 
account that they wanted the account to use as an everyday current account, 
including to pay direct debits. They say that they would not have accepted the 
account if it had been made clear to them that the account would not support regular 
payments. 
2) They explain that they only began using the account around September as that was 
when they were preparing to move in together. That is why it only became clear then 
that the account was not suitable. 
3) They say that there were two phone calls made and I have not considered one of 
them. They say that the first call included them checking with the bank whether the 
direct debit had paid, and then there was a second call, after they had researched 
their account, in which they enquired about changing their account. 
4) They say that the main points of complaint are that they were wrongly informed when 
opening the account and then they were wrongly informed when they called to 
enquire whether direct debits were working. They say that the latter failure caused 
them great inconvenience as they were then unable to go to a bank together and try 
to change their account in person for some time. 
5) They feel that Metro bank gave a poor customer service and ought to have 
apologised. Miss D and Mr L feel that staff were evasive when they called and they 
felt that there was an implication that they were lying.  
6)  Miss D and Mr L feel that they were caused to spend excessive time on this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened again to the available call in order to consider whether it is the first or second 
call Miss D and Mr L have discussed. The available call recording does not appear to be a follow up call. Mr L asks the agent to 
check if a direct debit has gone through, either on that day, or the previous day, as he has 
been contacted by the provider that the direct debit had failed. There is no mention of 
another call to Metro Bank having been made, or any other contact with the bank to query 
this. It appears that Mr L has become aware of the failure of the payment very shortly before 
the call. 
The call then progresses and before the end of the call, Mr L enquires if he and Miss D can 
change their Instant cash account into a normal account. They are then advised that to do 
so would require an in-branch visit. 
I therefore think that the call for which I have the recording includes the content described by 
Miss D and Mr L.
In relation to Miss D and Mr Ls initial meeting, there was clearly a misunderstanding 
between Miss D and Mr L and Metro Bank as to what type of account was required and 
provided. 
As I previously set out, I cannot determine what was said at that meeting, so have relied 
upon the literature which was provided and signed at the time. This makes clear that the 
account applied for was a cash account. I appreciate that Miss D and Mr L feel that Metro 
Bank should have alerted them more clearly to the type of account being provided, but I 
think that Metro Bank provided enough, in the form of the literature, that it was open to Miss 
D and Mr L to ask further questions at that time or to correct the issue. 
Miss D and Mr L have commented that they were unable to put matters right when they 
called because they were not told that the account could not support direct debits whilst they 
were still together in the same place. As previously set out, I do not agree with this. The call 
recording which I have includes Mr L asking if the account could be changed from a cash 
account to a normal account, very shortly after the direct debit was first attempted, and 
whilst Mr L and Miss D were together. 
Mr L was advised in response that to change their account they would need to attend a 
branch. I believe that Mr L and Miss D had, by the time of that call, realised that the cash 
account was limited and not suitable for them, and they received the advice that they needed 
to attend a branch to change the account. 
Miss D and Mr L feel that they have had to spend a lot of time on this matter. I appreciate 
this, but as I have not been able to find evidence that the account opening was Metro Banks 
fault, I cannot direct Metro Bank to compensate Miss D and Mr L for inconvenience which 
was not demonstrably the fault of Metro Bank.  
Finally, Miss D and Mr L have commented that they have not received an apology from 
Metro Bank for the service issues. I appreciate that no apology was offered to them at first, 
when Metro Bank was unable to locate the September call, but when they later did locate 
that recording, Metro Bank offered its apologies to Miss D and Mr L in their response to us. 
Whilst I understand that this decision will be disappointing to Miss D and Mr L, I hope that 
the offered apology provides them with some satisfaction.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and contained in my provisional decision, my view remains 
the same and I do not uphold this complaint. Consequently, I do not ask Metro Bank PLC to 
do anything further.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman