DRN-1787573
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss G took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which she applied for the 
credit card in 2002. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss G says she went into the branch to enquire about an overdraft on her current account. 
She says the adviser told her he could provide her with an overdraft but shed need agree to 
take out the credit card at the same time. And further, that if she wanted the credit card then 
shed have to take out the PPI.
Miss G says she feels she was coerced into taking out the credit card itself. However, Ms G 
would need to make a separate complaint about that. Similarly, she has mentioned that 
Barclays has started to charge her for the overdraft facility, so shed also need to make a 
separate complaint about that. To be clear, this decision is only looking at whether the PPI 
on the credit card was mis-sold.
From what we know of Barclays sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. Ive seen a copy of the application form that was completed 
at the time. The form has a section for PPI with yes and no boxes to either request or 
decline the policy. There is a cross in the yes box to confirm that Miss G had elected to 
have the PPI. Although it is an electronic cross, that is typical of what we see for branch 
sales where the adviser asks the applicant questions, enters the answers onto the system 
and then the form is printed off afterwards for signing.
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss G has said. Ive no doubt that she has provided 
her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Miss Gs memory of the sale has faded somewhat and this is something that I 
also need to take into account. Overall, based on the available evidence, I am not persuaded that Miss G wasnt given a 
choice about buying PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to take it out, knowing 
that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Miss G to take out the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to her, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Miss Gs circumstances at 
the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Miss G would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Miss G would have received full pay 
for. And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Miss G has said 
that her parents would have helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. Overall, I consider that Miss G had a need for the policy and that 
it could have provided a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider 
it was reasonable of Barclays to advise Miss G to buy it.
Barclays also needed to provide Miss G with enough information for her to make an 
informed choice about whether or not it was right for her. I think that Miss G would have 
known something about the policy  that it would cover her repayments if she was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think shed have decided 
to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss G wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Miss G had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss G 
about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss G, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
On another point, Barclays says the PPI policy ended in 2005. Miss G wasnt sure about this 
as she had a payment coming out of her credit card account until 2019 which she thought 
might be PPI. Barclays has shown us copies of Miss Gs credit card statements were PPI 
was shown as Payment Protection Plan. Barclays has also provided evidence that the last 
statement the PPI appeared on was in February 2005. From the evidence Ive seen Im 
satisfied that the PPI was cancelled in 2005.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman