DRN-4467265
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about charges on his credit card account with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money (Virgin). Mr A had a discussion with Virgin about clearing his balance and 
wasnt made aware of any interest charge needing to be applied. Mr A said when these 
charges were applied it caused problems that meant he was unable to get a mortgage.
What happened
Mr A spoke to Virgin to discuss clearing the small outstanding balance on his credit card 
account. But it didnt inform him during this conversation that if he did clear the balance there 
would be a small further charge as some interest would be applied. When Mr A complained 
about this Virgin accepted Mr A should have been informed that interest was going to be 
applied to his account the following month. But that didnt happen. Mr A said this led to him 
missing out on a mortgage and caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr A said this also 
meant he had the extra expense of having to use a mortgage broker. Virgin didnt agree to 
pay this cost. To try and resolve the matter Virgin offered £50 compensation. Mr A didnt 
accept this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr A had been sent letters and 
statements showing there was a need to make a payment. Our investigator said Virgin had 
followed a fair process to allow Mr A to clear the outstanding amount. He noted Mr A had 
ended up getting the original mortgage he applied for, so he accepted Virgins point that it 
didnt need to pay for the mortgage broker. Our investigator accepted Virgin did act to 
remove Mr As late payment marker and had made this clear to Mr A. He said the £50 offer 
for Mr As distress and inconvenience was reasonable.
Mr A didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin said Mr A had pointed out he had a zero balance on his account by the end of March 
2023. But the suggestion was because his account wasnt closed that brought about a 
residual interest charge. Mr A said this charge impacted on his credit file and stopped him 
getting a mortgage. Mr A wanted to know why his zero balance had changed.
Virgin said it made Mr A aware in May that he needed to clear the outstanding balance. Mr A 
did this but wasnt advised of the residual interest that was due to be applied. There was an 
issue with a late fee from March that on three occasions was meant to be reversed and this 
would have added to Mr As confusion. Mr A assumed there was a credit balance on his 
account and wanted this to be returned to him.
To put things right Virgin said it would amend Mr As credit file records for July, it would close 
the account, it would feedback to the internal colleagues that had made the errors and 
offered Mr A £50 for his distress and inconvenience. Virgin said in the final response letter 
that the credit reference agency would be updated about the removal of the marker on 
Mr As credit file at the end of the month.
Mr A said if Virgin hadnt made the mistakes he wouldnt have encountered the difficulties he 
did in getting a mortgage. Mr A said the bank wouldnt continue with his mortgage 
application because of the impact on his credit score. Mr A contacted a broker who said they 
could help get a mortgage with bad credit. This broker charged him a large fee and then said 
Mr A would have to wait for the amendment from Virgin to go through on his credit file.
I can understand Mr As wish to arrange a mortgage and accept that he found his stress 
added to due to Virgins actions. But Virgin did provide statements and details to show what 
was outstanding. Virgin accepted it had made making mistakes and did act to remove fees 
and the credit file marker.
I understand why Mr A would like Virgin to pay for the mortgage broker fees but it does seem 
that the mortgage lender, like other lenders, still had to wait until the credit file had been 
updated. It appears Mr A chose to approach the broker and I cant hold Virgin responsible for 
that. Virgin had been clear that it would update his credit file and when it would do this.
I think based on the details Virgin acted reasonably when it apologised, updated the credit 
file, removed the fees, and offered £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. If it hasnt yet paid this amount to Mr A it should arrange to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman