DRN-2117497
The complaint
Mr B and Miss C have complained the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc caused 
them to lose many thousands of pounds. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that he owed money to a third party. He and his family had been 
threatened with violence when he said he was unable to repay what his creditors said he 
owed. He explained that he disclosed his banking details so that they could obtain a loan in 
his name. Mr Bs banking details included those relating to his business account, as well as 
his own personal account and a joint account. Ill call his business S throughout.
Because of the threats hed received, Mr B felt that he had no choice but to act as he did. 
And he didnt tell the police what had happened until some time later. And then only talked to 
NatWest after the police allowed him to (as theyd been hoping to take enforcement action 
against those involved in threatening Mr B and his family).
As Ill explain, NatWest dealt with all three accounts together when dealing with Mr Bs 
concerns, but this decision concerns only Mr B and, his partner, Miss Cs account. Our rules 
and procedures dont allow me to issue a single determination about complaints brought by 
different account holders  even where, as here, those complaints are closely linked. 
At the time of the initial threats, Mr B and Miss Cs joint current account had limited funds. 
Therefore he had significantly below what was needed to repay the money that was being 
demanded of him. 
There were however a number of direct debits on Ss and Mr Bs joint accounts. The third 
party who had gained control of the account contacted NatWest to reclaim payments made 
by direct debit under the direct debit guarantee scheme. NatWest refunded payments that 
had been made to different suppliers; those payments went back some time and were 
significant. They had the effect, therefore, of inflating the balance of the other two accounts, 
enabling those controlling them to make transfers and withdrawals which NatWest allowed. 
However, the refunds made were not genuine  in the sense that they hadnt been made for 
a reason which was valid under the direct debit guarantee scheme. Consequently, some 
were reversed a few weeks later. 
Once Mr B had told NatWest what had happened, they considered the position hed found 
himself in and the impact this had on him. Whilst sympathetic they believed from a legal 
perspective he has authorised the third party/fraudster to use his account and security 
details . in clear breach of his account terms and conditions. They hoped to be able to get 
£4,400 back of the funds disbursed to other payment service providers but otherwise felt 
they had no liability here.
NatWest had also been able to show theyd discussed the online withdrawals being made 
from all the accounts. These were being completed using another device and from a 
different IP address than the one normally used to access S and Mr Bs accounts. Hed 
initially confirmed to them these were genuine transactions. This had enabled further 
transactions to be made.
NatWest also spoke to the police in April 2017. This enabled them to check the veracity of 
Mr Bs claims that hed acted under duress.
Apart from the emotional and practical impact on Mr B and his family  theyd lost the 
property theyd been living in  Mr B was being chased for a number of debts by companies 
whod had direct debits reversed.
Mr B brought complaints to the ombudsman service.
After careful review of the evidence including a statement from Victim Support, our 
investigator didnt think NatWest had made any errors in processing the online transactions 
as instructed by the third party. However the direct debit refunds had ensured there was 
money in the account to allow these withdrawals. All parties agreed the person asking for 
direct debit refunds wasnt Mr B, nor was it clear hed ever known about these transactions 
as they were happening. Nor had NatWest taken what could be considered normal steps to 
review why substantial amounts were being reclaimed. 
NatWest were asked to put back Mr Bs accounts in the situation they would have been in 
before the direct debit indemnities were raised. This essentially meant NatWest had to 
refund all the disputed direct debits back to the original companies. This would stop those 
businesses pursuing him and S for settlement of what were now debts. Mr B was also 
concerned at the additional costs being racked up. He was being asked to repay companies 
legal costs as well as the money for the direct debits.
This seemed to offer a workable solution which after further discussion NatWest was 
prepared to accept. NatWest tried to repay the money owed. This didnt prove easy. 
Reconciliation of the different amounts was also proving tricky. 
Around the same time NatWest decided to close Mr Bs accounts, including the one he held 
jointly with Miss C. Our investigator questioned the timing of these notices as it seemed 
NatWest had still not delivered a clear resolution to Mr Bs complaints on behalf of himself, 
his partner and S.
As it was proving difficult to resolve the case to Mr Bs satisfaction, our investigator 
completed a further view on 10 October 2018. This essentially confirmed the value of the 
indemnities had exceeded the amount paid out in disputed transactions. 
Mr B rejected this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.  He was 
particularly upset at the implication hed ended up gaining financially from what had 
occurred.
I completed a provisional decision on 23 July 2019. As this complaint was about Mr B and 
Miss Cs joint current account, there was no outstanding debt. I felt it was fair to ask NatWest 
to pay him £700 in compensation.
I received no comments from NatWest. Mr B was prepared to accept the outcome as long as 
he was no longer being pursued for any debt from NatWest.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen nothing to suggest I should come to a different conclusion than 
the one I explained in my provisional decision. What follows repeats my reasoning from my 
provisional decision.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than more than 
three years of financial difficulty for Mr B and Miss C may merit. Ive also not added all the 
detail of what happened prior to and during the fraud. These issues are well known to all 
parties.
Im also not going to cover all points raised by Mr B. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects which 
impact the decision Im making.
Its worth confirming this service has received many detailed emails and correspondence 
from both NatWest and Mr B and Ive reviewed these carefully in coming to my decision. Our 
investigator also contacted some of the direct debit originators directly to understand the 
status of Mr Bs account with them. I have referred to that where relevant.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply and Ive referred to these below. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
One other aspect I need to review is whether a bank should do more in certain 
circumstances. This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer. 
In broad terms a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). 
 Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. I have noted the 
BSI Code came into effect after the disputed transactions in this complaint.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what NatWest and Mr B have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events and Mr Bs testimony were covered in our investigators 
views of 8 February, 6 July and 10 October 2018. I dont intend to repeat everything that was 
said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can 
reassure Mr B and NatWest Ive read the file thoroughly. 
The way this fraud happened was by a third party reclaiming money from a number of direct 
debits. These funds credited both Ss account and the account Mr B held jointly with Miss C. 
A new savings account was set up in Mr Bs name. A third party then carried out numerous 
transfers between Ss account, Mr Bs savings account and the joint account. Online 
payments were then also made from all three accounts to external third parties. Thats where 
the losses took place.
Direct debit transactions
Under the direct debit guarantee, banks which have made payments must, in certain 
circumstances, make an immediate refund of money paid by direct debit and seek that 
money back from the supplier (generally called an originator). The originator may be able to 
challenge that; but if they cant, they will generally still be able to claim their money back 
from the customer. The direct debit guarantee scheme is designed to give protection when 
direct debit payments are made incorrectly, not to resolve disputes between suppliers and 
their customers. 
NatWest has admitted their procedures to query requests to refund all direct debits was not 
what theyd normally expect. Theyve previously accepted our view that the requests to 
refund the direct debits were not made by Mr B. If anything the phone calls suggested these 
may have been done by a female, and not a male, voice. 
However its difficult to say Mr B was completely unaware of this. I can see a letter NatWest 
wrote to Mr B on 10 March 2017 apologising about two direct debit refunds being credited on 
23 February (to Ss account) and then immediately being re-debited. The letter was sent 
after a phone call was received by NatWest on 24 February. Im unable to tell whether that 
phone call was made by the third party who also requested the initial refunds or not but I suspect this is likely. I note though the letter was sent to Mr Bs home address.
It was the fact that the direct debit refunds were made  the majority of which credited Ss 
account  that allowed transfers to be made to a savings account set up in Mr Bs name. 
That account was only opened on 23 February 2017.
I have scrutinised spreadsheets and figures presented to us by NatWest. These have 
included a spreadsheet (from an email dated 12 December 2017) showing direct debits 
crediting and debiting the joint account from 24 February to 22 March 2017. This didnt 
include the normal monthly direct debits being paid as part of Mr B and Miss Cs normal 
account management. However the account statements do show these. For example there 
are three direct debit payments on 1 March 2017 to three different household suppliers.
There is a separate email from NatWest dated 18 April 2018 which confirms the action they 
were taking after agreeing to put accounts back into the position they were in before the 
direct debits were reclaimed. In May 2018 NatWest sent two cheques to the two originators 
where payments had been refunded to Mr B and Miss Cs account.
Mr B and Miss C got correspondence from their local authority asking them to repay the 
amount due between the period the direct debits were reclaimed and before NatWest repaid 
£1,432.58. 
Our investigator spent a considerable time in discussing Mr Bs position with the company 
trying to collect these arrears on their Council Tax. His view of 10 October 2018 contained a 
detailed excerpt from the information presented to him by Mr B and Miss Cs local authority. 
This showed some costs were down to action taken to repay this amount. He asked 
NatWest to repay £185 relating to court costs and fees charged by the company trying to 
collect arrears. There was also a partial months payment Mr B and Miss C were due to pay 
before they ceased occupancy of the property. NatWest were not asked to repay this.
I believe having reviewed the figures in detail this remains the correct outcome.
State of the current account
There were numerous transactions between this account, Ss account and Mr Bs savings 
account. There are both debits and credits. This seems to have been solely designed to limit 
the chance of NatWest spotting what was going on.
At the end of the fraud period, there was barely £6 left in this account. This is not that much 
different to the £1 in the account prior to 24 February. Payments had been transferred to 
external third parties as well as to the other accounts, and then on to third parties.
In spreadsheets NatWest shared with us both before the updated view and after there is no 
indication that any outstanding debt relates to Mr B and Miss Cs joint account. Having 
reviewed the evidence I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome.Putting things right
In his view of 10 October 2018, our investigator asked NatWest to pay Mr B £750 in 
compensation for the distress caused by both them closing his accounts during a difficult 
period and not sorting out the direct debit indemnity issue.
Im going to amend this slightly. This decision does need to be read in tandem with the 
decisions Ive also completed on Ss and Mr Bs own accounts.
There were direct debit issues relating to the joint account. Its clear the local authority took 
prompt enforcement action to sort out the money from the reclaimed direct debit. They 
wouldnt have needed to do this if the direct debit hadnt been reclaimed without question. 
I also appreciate this came at a completely horrible time for Mr B and Miss C. Without a 
doubt they had a lot to deal with. Subsequently Ive seen one of the perpetrators of this fraud 
admitted to fraud and was sentenced in January 2019. 
NatWest did write to Mr B to close his accounts during the time our service was negotiating a 
resolution to Mr Bs complaints. So the timing was not ideal and Mr B has told us this added 
to his distress over what has happened. 
Ive thought about both of these factors carefully and decided I will be asking NatWest to pay 
Mr B and Miss C £700 for the distress caused here.
Im sure Mr B will want to carefully review what Ive said in this and other decisions. NatWest 
took some time and effort to lay out in full what figures theyve relied upon. Were happy to 
share these figures with Mr B. This may assist him in deciding what his response to this 
provisional decision will be.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Repay £185 to Mr B and Miss C for additional costs relating to the direct debit 
reclaimed from the local authority; and 
Pay them £700 for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman