DRN-4145004
The complaint
Mr P complained about Building Block Insurance PCC Ltds service under his vehicle 
breakdown insurance policy. Ill refer to them as BBI.
What happened
When Mr Ps car wouldnt start he called BBI for a home start. He said that BBIs recovery 
operator attended, started the car and advised him to leave it running for about 45 minutes 
to an hour and it would be fine. But when his car wouldnt start again the next day, Mr P 
called BBI again. 
BBI said that it was the same or similar fault as the previous day and Mr P hadnt taken his 
car to the garage for the underlying issue to be fixed. So they wouldnt re-attend without 
further payment, in line with Mr Ps policy. 
Mr P was unhappy. He said that he had to get help elsewhere at his own expense. He 
thought that BBI failed to properly conduct the repair and advise him, and that the policy was 
misleading. He wanted BBI to apologise and compensate him. But they said they acted 
correctly and in line with their policy terms. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought BBI had treated Mr P fairly and had 
done what they needed to do under his policy. Mr P didnt agree and so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said that the policy was misleading and failed to deliver the unlimited callouts promised. 
I cant comment here on the circumstances of how the policy was sold to Mr P, as that would 
first require a different complaint, against whoever sold Mr P the policy. What Im looking at 
here is whether BBI did what the policy required them to do and whether the policy was clear 
about what that was. 
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ps breakdown insurance policy. Its clear that its purpose is to 
make temporary repairs only. It says on page 12 what is covered, which is that BBI will 
instruct a recovery operator to attend the scene and where possible carry out a temporary 
repair. On page 6 it says:  
Any repair carried out by a Recovery Operator is deemed a Temporary Repair. We 
therefore insist that Vehicle is taken to a garage immediately and any permanent repairs are 
made. We reserve the right to request evidence of any permanent repairs'
The policy also states on page 19 that their recovery operators are trained and equipped to 
undertake temporary roadside repairs and are not in a position to comment on the general 
roadworthiness or safety of a vehicle, before, during or after a breakdown or repair. It also 
says that the completion of an emergency repair cant signify or guarantee the 
roadworthiness of the vehicle concerned, and attention should always be sought from a 
garage or alternative place of repair.
The policy makes clear in the policy conditions on page 8 that where BBI have attended a 
previous breakdown in the last 60 days where the fault is in their opinion the same, related, 
or similar, and where no remedial action has been taken to correct the fault, theyll re-
attended on a paid basis only as it would be outside the policy terms. But they will reimburse 
that cost if the consumer can subsequently provide evidence that the original breakdown 
cause had been repaired, or it is established that the breakdown cause is unrelated. 
After BBI had attended Mr Ps car the first time, they sent Mr P a text suggesting he retain 
receipts. BBI meant by this evidence that the car had been repaired. But Mr P said the text 
wasnt clear and that they should have said that they wanted him to take his car to a garage. 
I dont think the text was very clear about what it was referring to, but I dont think that made 
any difference. This is because I dont think that BBI were required to advise Mr P that he 
should take his car to a garage.  
The above terms are all common terms in this type of policy and are not unusual or 
unreasonable. They are made clear in the policy and are not in the small print. We expect 
consumers to read the terms of any policy they take out, as that shows what they have 
agreed to. The point of such a policy is to get a car moving again so that it can be taken for 
repair of the underlying issue, not to do a full repair, and the policy is clear about that. 
The policys two-page information document also states under What is not insured?  that 
claims relating to a previous fault were a full repair has not been undertaken will only be met 
on a paid basis. So I think that was also made clear in the policys associated documents.  
Mr P said that he was young and only a learner driver and couldnt be expected to read the 
policy small print to realise that he needed to have the underlying issue fixed or that BBI 
wouldnt attend his car for the same thing again for free. He thought that the recovery 
operator should have told him he needed to do that. But, while I do see that that these sort of 
matters can be unfamiliar to a new young driver, I dont think that BBI were responsible for 
that. The recovery operator wouldnt know the terms of BBI Mr Ps policy and wasnt required 
to, because his role was only to do a temporary repair to get the car started. As Ive 
explained above, I think the policy is clear on these terms and I dont think the language was 
misleading or unfair, or that it was such as to manipulate new and nave drivers. I think that 
BBIs policy was clear about the service BBI would provide, and they did provide that 
service.   
I think that they acted reasonably, and so I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
