DRN-3359109
The complaint
Mr R complains about AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AC) and their decision to provide him with a 
high interest loan, which he thinks was irresponsible.
What happened
In September 2015, Mr R applied for a high interest loan with AC. This application was 
approved, and AC provided Mr R with a capital loan of £5,000 which was repayable over a 
60-month term with a monthly repayment of £191.97.
Mr R says he struggled to meet the monthly repayments of this loan. And he had to take out 
other lending to meet these payments before accepting help from friends and family which 
allowed him to clear the loan in full in January 2018.  In 2021, Mr R revisited his past 
financial commitments. And having done so, he was unhappy that AC provided him with the 
loan in 2015. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr R thought ACs decision to provide him with the loan was irresponsible. He thought his 
poor credit status, including his existing credit at the time of the application, shouldve made 
it reasonably clear to AC that hed be unable to afford the loan. And he thought the loan itself 
had placed him in greater financial difficulty due to the high interest rate. So, Mr R wanted 
the interest and charges applied to the account to be refunded to him and for the loan to be 
removed from his credit file.
AC didnt agree. They thought the checks they completed before providing the loan were 
proportionate to the loan value and Mr Rs monthly income. And they didnt think these 
checks provided any information that suggested the loan wouldnt be affordable. So, they 
thought they had acted responsibly and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr R 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the checks AC 
completed were proportionate. But they thought the checks shouldve alerted AC to potential 
issues with affordability. They explained Mr Rs credit file suggested a reliance on credit. And 
they didnt think AC had taken Mr Rs true expenses and obligations into account. They 
thought if AC had, and sought further clarity, it was likely they wouldnt have approved the 
loan at all. So, our investigator thought AC should deduct the capital £5,000 Mr R received 
from the total payments he made an any balance left should be refunded to Mr R plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayments to the date of settlement. And they 
thought AC should remove any negative information reported to Mr Rs credit file relating to 
the account.
Mr R accepted this recommendation. But AC didnt. They thought as the loan was intended 
for consolidation of debts, Mr R would still have been left with a reasonable amount of 
disposable income even when the loan payment was considered. And they pointed out that 
Mr R repaid the loan ahead of schedule and showed no signs of affordability issues during 
the lifetime of the loan. So, they didnt think they should do anything more.
Our investigator responded explaining Mr Rs bank statement showed he paid all of the joint 
loan payment each month, not 50% as AC had calculated. And they explained Mr R also 
paid £450 a month for child maintenance which AC hadnt considered. So, they thought Mr 
Rs financial commitments including the loan should still have suggested the loan may not be 
sustainable, considering the credit information AC wouldve seen. AC didnt respond to this 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did AC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did AC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did AC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that AC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.Did AC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen AC considered the information Mr R provided in his application, which included 
homeowner and employment status, income and existing credit obligations as well as 
existing expenses. And they compared this against the information reported to Mr Rs credit 
file. Considering the capital value of the loan against Mr Rs declared monthly income, and 
the monthly repayment of £191.97, I think the checks AC completed initially were 
proportionate. So, I cant say they acted unfairly here.
Did AC make a fair lending decision?
But as well as ensuring the checks were proportionate, Ive also thought about whether AC 
assessed the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think they 
did. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit file AC wouldve seen at the time of Mr Rs application. This 
credit file showed that Mr R had opened 4 new credit accounts in the previous 3 months. 
And in the same time, 3 of his outstanding credit balances had increased. The credit file also 
showed that Mr Rs card utilisation had increased in the past 12 months, and even more so 
in the 3 months before the application. And I can see all of this information was listed as a 
risk rating score of R on the report, which is he highest risk rating out of the 3 available. 
And the report also showed that 4 short term loan accounts had been opened in the last 6 
months, with 2 of those being opened in the last 3 months and 2 of these accounts remained 
open at that time. So, I think this information shouldve suggested to AC that Mr R had an 
increased reliance on credit in the immediate months before he applied for the loan. And I 
think AC shouldve sought further information to satisfy themselves that the loan was 
affordable to be repaid in a sustainable way, considering this suggested reliance.
I can also see that Mr Rs worst current status on his accounts was listed as U, meaning 
there had been a time where he had been unable to meet a minimum payment. And it also 
stated that 2 active revolving accounts were above their credit limit at that time. So again, I 
think all of this information shouldve suggested to AC that Mr R was reliant on credit already 
and struggling to maintain his existing financial commitments in a sustainable way. And 
again, I think this shouldve prompted AC to seek further information, such as up to date 
bank statements and a more in-depth income and expenditure report. While I can see on 
ACs contact notes it was listed that these statements should be requested, AC have 
provided no evidence to show these were received or considered. 
So, I dont think Im able to say AC acted fairly when assessing the information available to 
them from the checks they completed. And Ive then thought about what I think AC would 
most likely have done, had they acted fairly and requested more information.Ive looked at Mr Rs statements from the three months before his application in detail. And it 
shows that each month, Mr R was taking short-term loans for small amounts on a regular 
basis. And they show that Mr R was using his overdraft each month, with additional charges 
for entering an unarranged overdraft in one of the months. I think these statements would 
most likely have led AC to realise Mr R was reliant on credit, and that he needed to take high 
interest short term credit to help him pay the existing credit he had. And because of this, I 
think AC would have, and should have, realised that Mr R would be unable to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way.
They also show that Mr R was paying the full mortgage balance of over £800, rather than the 
50% AC assumed when completing their affordability calculations. Alongside this, they show 
that Mr R was also withdrawing £440 in cash each month, which Mr R has confirmed was for 
child maintenance. So, I think this alone showed that Mr R had outgoings of £800 more than 
AC initially calculated. 
While I appreciate the loan was intended to consolidate some of Mr Rs existing debt, this 
loan wasnt enough to consolidate it all. And calculating the commitments Mr R wouldve had 
after the consolidation, Mr R wouldve been paying over £1,500 a month to his existing debt. 
And Mr Rs child maintenance and the AC monthly payment would need to be added to this, 
which would leave Mr R with just under £500 after all of these commitments were paid. 
So, Mr R would be expected to pay for any other expenses, including travel and food costs, 
clothing, healthcare, and any insurance products within this remaining amount. While AC 
may argue this would be a reasonable disposable income, I dont agree. I say this because if 
this was a reasonable disposable income, I wouldnt expect Mr R to need to take regular 
short-term loans. And I dont think this disposable income provided Mr R with any chance of 
repaying his credit cards or his overdraft in a sustainable way that gave him an opportunity 
to reduce his debts. So, I think if AC had received this additional information, and assessed 
this fairly, they wouldve taken the decision to decline Mr Rs loan application. It follows that, 
as AC approved the application, I think this was unreasonable and unfair.
Did AC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think that AC acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think AC acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think AC should do to put 
things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr R back in the position he 
wouldve been, had AC acted fairly in the first place. 
In this situation, if AC had acted fairly, I dont think Mr R wouldve been given the loan. So, I 
dont think he should incur a financial loss because of this loan. But I also must recognise Mr 
R was able to utilise the loan and had the benefit of the capital balance. 
So, I think Mr R should be refunded any interest and charges hes paid toward the loan, that 
was charged on top of the capital balance he received. And I think any negative information 
reported to Mr Rs credit file relating to the loan should be removed, to ensure he is placed 
back in the position he wouldve been had the loan not been given.
I understand AC wont agree with this outcome. And I recognise they believe Mr Rs 
management of the loan, and his ability to repay it early, suggests there was no issued with 
affordability. But Mr R has confirmed he took other credit to maintain his payments to this 
loan. And considering Mr Rs habits shown in his bank statements before the loan was approved, I think its reasonable for me to assume this was the case. And Mr R has 
confirmed he was given money by family to repay the loan to help his financial situation. So, 
I dont think the fact the loan was paid early is enough to suggest it was affordable. And even 
so, in this situation while I understand AC have questioned the affordability, I think it 
shouldve been reasonably clear to AC that repayment of the loan wasnt sustainable, due to 
Mr Rs financial situation and habits at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint about AvantCredit of UK, LLC and 
I direct them to take the following action:
Deduct the capital balance of the loan from the total repayments Mr R made and 
refund the remaining amount to Mr R along with 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayments to the date of settlement; and
Remove any negative information recorded to Mr Rs credit file relating to the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman