DRN-3487617
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In June 2016, Mr Os Santander account received a transfer of almost £8,300 from a third-
party account outside of the United Kingdom. On the day the after the funds arrived, £600 
was withdrawn in two cash machine transactions and transfers of £2,900.00, £2,500.00 and 
£1,900.00 were made to another account in Mr Os name. And on the day after this, a final 
transfer of £260 was made to a third party. 
Shortly afterwards, Santander received a notification from the bank, which sent the payment 
to Mr Os account, stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
Santander reviewed Mr Os account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention 
marker against Mr O.
Mr O eventually complained about Santanders actions. Santander looked at Mr Os 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr O remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr O has focused his complaint on the fact that Santander didnt do enough to contact him 
before it recorded a fraud marker. But even if Santander ought to have done more to contact 
Mr O before recording the fraud marker. This on its own wont mean that the marker should 
be removed. I still need to consider whether further investigation would have resulted in a 
different outcome.
Mr O told our adjudicator that the funds were from a friend and were sent for him to make 
purchases to send back to him. Mr O said he didnt remember the name of his friend. And he 
wasnt able to provide any evidence of what it was he bought for his friend or him sending it 
either.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. And while I accept that Mr O was asked about events 
which took place sometime ago, given the amount of the funds in question I would have at 
the very least expected him to have remembered the name of the sender and have had 
some evidence of the purchases he sent in return. Mr O says that Santander shouldnt have 
let him withdraw the funds if they were fraudulent. But Mr Os actions in dispersing the funds 
so quickly saw them leave Mr Os account before the third-party bank, which initially sent the 
payment, notified Santander that its customer (whom Mr O says was his friend) had reported 
being the victim of fraud. 
In these circumstances, I dont think that Mr O has provided anywhere near enough to prove 
his entitlement to the funds in question. And as Santander received a notification that the 
funds received were fraudulent, from a third-party bank, Im satisfied that it did have 
sufficient evidence to conclude that fraudulent funds had entered Mr Os account.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. And as Mr O clearly spent 
the funds, Santander was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than 
not Mr O was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for 
Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Os account. I think its worth me explaining that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Os account permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way 
to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already 
explained why I think Santander was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Os account 
had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording 
the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Os account. And Im therefore not upholding   
Mr Os complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O  especially in light of the fact he 
believes that Santander should have done more to inform him about its investigation. But as 
Ive explained I dont think that this would have prevented a fraud marker being recorded 
here. So I hope Mr O will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman