DRN-4414922
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain that Nationwide Building Society caused delays with the issue of 
their mortgage offer, so their old house sold before they could buy the new one. They 
wanted Nationwide to pay the extra storage and accommodation costs they incurred.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M sent us a detailed timeline of their mortgage application. They said they first 
approached Nationwide for a mortgage on 18 July 2022, but they werent able to have a 
meeting with a mortgage advisor until 29 July. Mr M and Ms M said they were told the 
application would take four to six weeks, and they told the mortgage advisor then that they 
were due to complete on Friday 16 September, which was exactly seven weeks away.
Mr M and Ms M listed a number of what they said were mistakes and oversights by
Nationwide, and some contradictory updates they received. They said all this meant that,
whilst they did receive a mortgage offer, they didnt actually get it until halfway through the
afternoon of the day they were due to complete, and move. They said they were committed
to selling their former home on this day, so had to move out. But by then, the seller wasnt
able to move that day, so they had to move into temporary accommodation in the interim,
before finally completing their purchase the following Thursday.
Mr M and Ms M wanted Nationwide to pay their out of pocket costs, which they said were
£240 for the renewed valuation, plus £1,857.50 for interim accommodation, and £680 for
additional storage for the time between moving out of their old home and into their new one.
Mr M and Ms M said when they complained, Nationwide just said this was all their fault, for
committing to a completion date without a mortgage offer in place. It offered £150. Mr M and
Ms M said that wasnt enough. They said they would have accepted half of their costs, if
Nationwide hadnt just blamed them. So they wanted our service to look into this.
Nationwide said it had given Mr M and Ms M the earliest possible appointment date when
they wanted to complete the application for their mortgage. It was sorry this had taken longer
than it would like. But it accepted it had made mistakes here, because the application Mr M 
and Ms M made on 29 July wasnt rekeyed until 18 August. Nationwide apologised for that. It
said it confirmed on 5 September that their Home Report was out of date, and would need to
be refreshed. Nationwide said Mr M and Ms M would always have needed a refreshed
report, but it noted this could have been mentioned to them earlier, and more clearly. It also
accepted it had put the wrong reference on this report when it was received.
Nationwide said it was sorry Mr M and Ms M felt there was no one taking ownership of their
application while their named mortgage advisor was away, but it said Mr M and Ms M could
still contact the relevant team for updates. Nationwide said it understood Mr M and Ms M
had said at the outset that they wanted to complete on 16 September, but it said it couldnt
guarantee at that point that it would issue an offer, or commit to a date for completion.
Nationwide said it issued its offer within seven weeks, which it thought was reasonable. And
it thought the core of the problem here was that Mr and Mrs M had already agreed a
completion date before they applied to Nationwide for a mortgage. So it wouldnt reimburse
the costs that Mr M and Ms M wanted it to cover. It had paid £150 in compensation.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, because she thought Nationwide
caused unreasonable delays, and if it wasnt for these, Mr M and Ms M would have been
able to move on 16 September 2022 as planned. So she said Nationwide should reimburse
Mr M and Ms M for the unnecessary refreshed report costs, pay the additional removal and
storage costs, and half of what theyd paid for interim accommodation. And it should pay a
little more compensation.
Mr M and Ms M agreed with this, but Nationwide didnt. It said it hadnt issued an offer until
16 September, and it wouldnt have expected Mr M and Ms M to enter into any binding
commitment to purchase until after the offer was issued. And Nationwide said a refreshed
Home Report would always have been needed in this case. Nationwide said its usual not to
rely on these when they are more than three months old, and the report in this case was
already nearly that old when Mr M and Ms M made their application.
Our investigator then said Nationwide didnt have to pay for the refreshed Home Report, in
that case. But, although she accepted it was clear that Mr M and Ms M were committed to a
purchase before the offer was issued, she said the point here was that Nationwide did agree
to make an offer, it just delayed in doing so. She still thought Nationwide should pay the
additional removal and accommodation costs, plus the suggested additional compensation.
Mr M and Ms M said they would accept this, but Nationwide maintained its previous position.
It didnt think it was reasonable for Mr M and Ms M to set and agree a moving date without a
formal offer of mortgage. Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me
for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it, but only in part. This is what I said then: 
In considering this case, Ive not just got to consider whether Nationwide made mistakes 
here, although I should say at the outset, I think it did. But Ive also got to think about 
whether those mistakes were the cause of what went wrong here. That means looking 
at what I would usually expect to happen, in a transaction like, this, and setting that 
against what did happen here. I then have to consider what part of that it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for, and ask it to pay for.
I know Mr M and Ms M were very upset by Nationwides response to their complaint, 
because they felt Nationwide was blaming them for what went wrong here. And I 
understand their argument, that if Nationwide had processed their application promptly 
and smoothly, the transaction would have gone through on time, and they wouldnt have 
needed to move into temporary accommodation.
As I said above, I do think Nationwide made mistakes here. I can see it missed an 
opportunity at the outset to alert Mr M and Ms M to the fact that they were always going 
to need to refresh their valuation. Like our investigator, I havent been able to see any 
reason for Nationwides delay in rekeying their mortgage application. Mr M and Ms M 
told us at least some of the rekeyed information seemed to be missing or wrong. And it 
does look as if confirmation of an acceptable valuation was delayed by the wrong 
reference having been provided to the valuers. Additionally, I think it must have been 
deeply frustrating, to find out that the key contact on the mortgage application was on leave at a crucial time, and doesnt appear to have left an alternative contact who was 
as engaged with the issues.
So I do think that Nationwide made mistakes here, and I dont think that £150 provides a 
fair and reasonable response to those mistakes.
But Im sorry to have to tell Mr M and Ms M I also dont think Im able to ask Nationwide 
to pay half of their interim accommodation costs, and the additional removals costs. 
Thats because what I would usually expect to see in a case like this, isnt just that the 
lender wouldnt make so many mistakes with the application. Its also that the buyer 
wouldnt make a firm commitment to a sale and purchase until they have received a 
mortgage offer. And it does appear that Mr M and Ms M committed to this purchase, and 
agreed a date for it to go ahead, well in advance of Nationwide issuing any offer.
That doesnt mean its ok for Nationwide to make mistakes. But I think the 
consequences of these mistakes would have been somewhat less serious, if Mr M and 
Ms M hadnt already committed to their sale and purchase, and set a firm date for that.
Although there is a risk in committing to a property purchase without a mortgage offer in 
hand (and this could be a very considerable risk, if Mr M and Ms M were legally obliged 
to go ahead with their sale and purchase on 16 September) its for Mr M and Ms M to 
decide on the risks they are willing to take in a purchase, so its up to them whether they 
decide to do that. But I havent seen anything to make me think that Nationwide had 
knowingly and willingly accepted a share of the risk that Mr M and Ms M were taking in 
finalising a date for a move, before an offer was issued. And that means I dont think its 
fair to say that Nationwide should pay a share of costs in this case which only occurred 
because Mr M and Ms M decided to take that risk.
However, to return to the point I made above, I do think Nationwide made a number of 
mistakes in this case. And for that reason, I dont think that £150 is an appropriate level 
of compensation here. I know Nationwide says that this case still received an offer within 
its usual timescales, but I think thats been at least in part because of the efforts in 
pushing things forward made by Mr M and Ms M.
So I think this was very stressful for Mr M and Ms M, and I think the number of mistakes 
and oversights I can see here mean it always would have been so, even in different
circumstances. For that reason, I think that Nationwide should pay a total of £350 in
compensation. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I understand that Nationwide has already made a payment of £150 in this 
case, so I think it should pay £200 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it had received the provisional decision, and had nothing to add.  
Mr M and Ms M replied, to say they were disappointed, but didnt think there was any more 
they could say, other than to stress that Nationwides customer service fell well below 
expectations. They felt theirs was a very straightforward mortgage application which their 
solicitor had said should have taken no longer than four weeks. But Nationwide didnt keep to its usual timelines, and only managed the offer in seven weeks because of the amount of 
work Mr M and Ms M did to keep things moving. 
Mr M and Ms M said their offer being ready on their moving day was irrelevant, because it 
wasnt ready until too late in the day for their solicitor to draw the funds. 
Mr M and Ms M said they werent fully committed to moving on that date, but they said it was 
so late in the week before they knew if Nationwide would make an offer or not, they felt they 
had no choice but to move out, otherwise this would have affected their chain.
Mr M and Ms M acknowledged that their comments were unlikely to change my final 
decision, but said they didnt intend to deal with Nationwide again in future, and would be 
moving their mortgage as soon as the fixed interest period ended. 
I do appreciate that Mr M and Ms M feel very let down by Nationwide. But their original 
complaint was that they should have been able to move out of their old home and into their 
new one, on the same day. They wanted Nationwide to pay the extra costs they incurred, 
when this plan didnt work.
I could see that Mr M and Ms M had made at least some of the arrangements for their move, 
well in advance of any mortgage offer being in place for the purchase of their new home. I 
explained in my provisional decision that this always carries some risk. And I didnt think it 
was fair to make Nationwide pay for the costs of things not running smoothly, when it wasnt 
the one that decided to run this risk. But I did think it was fair to ask Nationwide to pay 
compensation for the effect of its poor service. So thats what my provisional decision 
proposed. And, although I understand Mr M and Ms Ms frustrations, what theyve said now 
hasnt changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr M and Ms M £200, in 
addition to the £150 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman