DRN-4210085
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1975 (CCA) in respect of a disputed payment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P entered into a contract with A relating to release of a motorhome that was the 
subject of a chattel mortgage (CM) under an agreement between Mr and Mrs P and 
another company (B). A acquired Bs rights and interests under that agreement after B 
went into administration.
On 31 January 2020 the administrators wrote to the lenders, numbering in the several 
hundreds, saying:
On 22 January, we sold such right, title and interest as the Company has in all of the 
motorhomes, to a company of which [XX] is a director. Under the terms of the sale 
agreement:
The purchaser is obliged to seek the consent of the CM holders to keep CM vehicles in their 
possession.
If the CM holder does not wish to sell the CM vehicle or otherwise make it available to the 
purchaser, then the purchaser is obliged to forthwith deliver the CM vehicle up to them for no 
charge, save in circumstances where it does not have control of the CM motorhome.
The purchaser shall use reasonable endeavours to contact the CM holder and enter into 
agreements with them. 
On 17 February 2020 A required Mr and Mrs M to enter into an agreement to release their 
motorhomes for which it charged £4,092. Mr and Mrs M did so under duress and say they 
noted the agreement document accordingly. The agreement includes the following:
IN CONSIDERATION of the release of the vehicle to the owner free of incumbrance and 
UPON PRODUCING proof of identity and proof of address to [A]copies of which are 
attached hereto
The owner WILL FORTHWITH PAY to [A] the following amounts set out in the schedule 
attached hereto.
The schedule says:
Payments to be made by the owner pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Agreement
Tracker Removal £102.00
Storage 27/01/20 to 18/02/20 £690.00
Insurance 27/01/20 to 18/02/20 £92.00
Retain Bike Rack/TV £480.00
£1364.00 x3
Total £4,092.00
This sum was paid by Mr P on 7 February, albeit reluctantly, using his credit card. Shortly 
after he made a claim under section 75 which was rejected by the bank.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She was satisfied that there was no breach 
of contract as A delivered the motorhomes on payment. On the question of 
misrepresentation she accepted the argument put forward by HSBC that: a customer 
cannot properly claim that the position has been misrepresented to them if they knowingly 
entered the contract. The customer knew the position they were agreeing to and entered into 
the Agreement on that basis.
Mr P didnt agree and submitted a detailed response setting out his position. He says the 
matter has become confused with the length of time and the many exchanges between our 
investigator and HSBC. He says that A made false statements as follows:
[A] stated that they were entitled to charge us when they were not.
[A] stated that they were recharging costs they had incurred when they had not incurred 
such costs.
He said that at the time they were in a state of shock having some £100,000 of assets at risk 
and took the view they had to pay to protect themselves. He explains that taking legal advice 
would be both costly and time consuming and at that time it was not clear that A was in the 
wrong. He also pointed out that they were now aware that many in a similar position had 
been reimbursed either through the chargeback regime or with section 75 claims. Finally he 
reiterated that they did sign the agreement under duress.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is in place. As our investigator has 
explained that a third company debited the credit card, but both it and A have a common 
director so I consider it reasonable to conclude that the money was being processed on 
behalf of A by the third company.On the second leg of section 75 I think that the issue is whether there was misrepresentation 
or not. It is possible there was breach of contract, but I will focus on misrepresentation.
Misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact made by one party to a contract to the other 
that:
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contract
A misrepresentation might be made before the contract was entered into, or it might be 
incorporated into the contract terms.
It seems to me that when B went into administration it was sold to A on the understanding 
that the motorhomes would be released to the rightful owners without charge. This was set 
out by the administrators in their letter to the owners. It appears that A sought to impose a 
charge having agreed with the administrators that they would not do so.
I cannot comment on the legality of this charge, but I think the agreement which A required 
Mr and Mrs P to sign was misleading. It made no reference to the terms of the agreement 
with the administrators. They have confirmed in a letter dated 18 February that the 
motorhomes were to be delivered up to the owners free of charge. But at the time Mr and 
Mrs P were pressed to sign the agreement A made no reference to this.
HSBC has put forward a number of arguments over the time this matter has been under 
consideration. Most of these seem to have been abandoned. It said that as the motorhomes 
had cost more than £30,000 section 75 did not apply, but as our investigator has explained 
the agreement which is the basis of the complaint is that between Mr and Mrs P and A which 
is within the financial limitations of the legislation.
It also suggested that Mr P had no claim as the contract was between Mrs P and A since 
she was the mortgagee, but as has been explained the agreement which gave rise to the 
section 75 claim is with A and is in the names of both Mr and Mrs P.
The remaining argument it is now pursuing is that the contract was entered into knowingly 
and if Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the demand for money they could have taken legal 
advice. I suspect HSBC is relying on hindsight in reaching this conclusion.
When Mr P made the claim he had become aware of others in a similar predicament and 
had a better understanding of the position and so his claim refers to an understanding which 
I dont consider was reasonably clear to him at the time he and his wife had to make a 
decision.
Mr and Mrs P were presented with a demand set in a legal or quasi legal format requiring 
them to pay some £4,000 to release their assets which were worth some £100,000. They 
were informed that they faced ongoing daily rental charges. I am satisfied, as are many 
others that A was not entitled to make these charges and it broke the agreement it had with 
the liquidators. It follows that in issuing the agreement requiring payment for release of the
motorhomes it misrepresented the position. In doing so I consider it materially influenced Mr 
and Mrs P to enter into the contract. That is misrepresentation and it is all that is required by 
section 75.
The fact they may have had some concerns about it doesnt mean that A wasnt guilty of 
misrepresentation. HSBC is arguing that Mr and Mrs P had some doubts about the requirement to pay money to A and that somehow means there wasnt a misrepresentation 
required by section 75. If it was obvious to them at the time they were required to make the 
payment that A wasnt entitled to the money then I could see some merit in the banks 
argument. But if it was something that would require legal advice then I think that alone 
suggests the matter was not clear cut.
While Mr and Mrs P might have doubted As right to charge the fees, I think that falls rather 
short of my being able to say that they werent induced to enter into the contract on this 
basis, or indeed other representations by A, such as the suggestion it held power not to 
release the motorhome unless they paid. Indeed they have told this service of one CM 
holder who chose not to sign the agreement and who did not get his motorhome back.
I would add that there have been times when HSBC seems to have misunderstood the claim 
and this had led to delays which has caused Mr P distress and inconvenience for which he 
should be compensated.
I concluded that the bank should:
1. Pay Mr P £4,092, together with annual interest at 8% simple from the date Mr P repaid the 
credit card transaction on his account) to the date HSBC settles the claim. If the debt has not 
been paid then the account will need to be recalculated. If HSBC deducts tax from the 
interest element of my award, it should confirm to Mr P that it has done so and provide him 
with the relevant tax deduction certificate
2. Pay Mr P £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr P did not respond, but the bank argued that there was no debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement since A and B were not connected as required by the CCA. It also said that there 
was no misrepresentation. Mr P had been told he would receive his motorhomes if he made 
payment when he paid they were returned to him. It may have been a ransom payment, but 
Mr P was aware A was not entitled to the money.
I wrote to HSBC and explained in detail why I considered the companies were connected as 
set out in the CCA. It responded to say that it didnt agree with everything I had said, but it 
was prepared to agree with my provisional decision with no admission of liability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the bank has now agreed to accept the provisional decision and Mr P has made no 
comment I consider it should stand.
Putting things right
The bank should refund the payment and pay Mr P compensation as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to take 
the following steps to resolve the dispute:
1. Pay Mr P £4,092, together with annual interest at 8% simple from the date Mr P repaid the 
credit card transaction on his account) to the date HSBC settles the claim. If the debt has not been paid then the account will need to be recalculated including any interest paid. If HSBC 
deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should confirm to Mr P that it has done 
so and provide him with the relevant tax deduction certificate
2. Pay Mr P £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman