DRN-3305126
The complaint
Ms E has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unreasonably refused to pay her claim under 
her pet policy because it unreasonably decided it concerned a pre-existing condition which was 
consequently excluded.
What happened
Ms E took out her policy for her dog on 6 July 2020, which provided cover for £4.000.00 vet 
fees with an excess of £75.00.  On 8 May 2021, Ms Es dog had collapsed out on a walk and 
was having breathing difficulties, plus retching, frothing from her mouth and vomiting, so she 
brought her to the vet. Her vet believed this was BOAS as in Brachycephalic Obstructive 
Airway Syndrome so referred Ms E to a specialist vet who treated and operated on her dog 
costing £4,186.06 in vet fees. Ms E then made a claim to HDI. 
On looking at her dogs vet history, HDI decided that because her dog collapsed on 4 May 
2020, which was before the policy started, this meant her claim was due to a pre-existing 
condition, which therefore wasnt covered by the policy. So, it declined to pay her claim on 
12 August 2021.
Ms E didnt agree and neither did her vet. They felt this episode in May 2020 was nothing 
like the episode May 2021 and believed the 2020 episode was more likely neurological or 
possibly hypoglycaemic in origin. So, Mrs E complained. HDI wouldnt change its stance so 
she brought her complaint to us. The investigator agreed that HDI had acted unfairly and he 
was of the view HDI should reconsider the claim with a view to paying it. HDI refused to 
accept his suggestions, so Ms Es complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator 
suggested. Ill now explain why.
This case hinges on the interpretation of the vet entry for the episode which occurred on 4 
May 2020. Sadly, the vet in question is no longer at the vet practice so cant give any view. 
His or her colleague, Ms Es present vet, has interpreted it one way and HDIs internal vet 
nurse has decided to interpret it in HDIs favour, saying rather ironically that as Ms Es vet 
wasnt the consulting vet, she couldnt say what her colleague meant. But I consider neither 
can HDIs vet nurse on that basis, and furthermore she of course has never worked with this 
vet or been his colleague, so would have less chance in my view of interpreting the note 
correctly as well.
Further in such a situation where evidence might be unclear, the fair presumption is to 
interpret it in the consumers favour rather than the insurers.
The vet note in question for the episode of 4 May 2020 says the following:
"O describes seizure episode whilst out a walk today and after running around 
playing a lot with other dogs and not having had breakfast, fell over, lost 
conciousness, paddling, expresed anal glands (had just defacated and urinated on 
the walk) lasted '10s, was a little quiet for an hour or so afterwards and now is back 
to nomial. Otherwise well in herself DDUE nomial. Adv that ideally would examine 
dotty, bloods +/- referral etc., but O not keen for this and would rather just
monitor for now, discussed causes of seizures, adv that hypoglycaemia can cause 
seizures but unsure if it would present like this.
O to monitor and if any further episodes will visit for FI."
Ms Es recollection of her call with this vet was that it was felt it might be idiopathic epilepsy. 
Certainly, she wasnt concerned to have investigated it further given the vets offer to do so 
and of course, we must remember in May 2020 the pandemic was fairly severe and we were 
in lockdown too. So, whilst HDI make quite a lot of Ms Es refusal to have dog checked in 
given this episode, its vet nurse appears to have forgotten the situation faced by both the vet 
and Ms E, given the pandemic where most vets were only offering treatment for life 
threatening issues too and certainly there were severe changes to how everyone acted and 
behaved. This episode didnt seem that serious in any event as Ms Es dog was fine and 
remained fine for another year. 
It is HDIs burden of proof to show this incident was related to the eventual diagnosis of 
BOAS and I dont think it has discharged its burden of proof coherently or indeed fairly and 
reasonably. The description of the incident Ms E dog suffered in May 2021is very different, 
as here her dog had trouble breathing, she was retching and throwing up and didnt recover 
from the incident quickly as she was still ill the next day. Vet examination then concluded 
she had developed BOAS. Ms Es vet doesnt think the incidents are linked either based on 
her colleagues vet note and the presenting symptoms a year later.
HDIs vet nurse has expressed herself somewhat aggressively on the matter which I 
consider weakens her argument considerably. Obviously both times the dog collapsed which 
shows some similarity but the differences in symptoms do create a significant element of 
doubt as of course different illnesses can show some similar signs but in May 2020 Ms Es 
recovered within about 10 seconds, whereas in May 2021 the symptoms suffered were far 
more severe indicating a breathing issues plus regurgitation which appear very much classic 
BOAS symptoms from my understanding of BOAS.
Following the investigators view, HDI provide a further view from its vet adviser. He talks of 
Ms Es dog steadily worsening over time, but I dont consider she did. She was fine for a 
year, so I dont agree she was worsening over time in a gradual steady decline with 
symptoms pertaining to anything to do with BOAS. He again makes much of the fact Ms E 
didnt have tests done in May 2020, again appearing to fail realise the situation with the 
pandemic. 
Obviously if it was the case that Ms Es dog did steadily worsen over that year, she would 
have gone back to the vet for these tests, but she didnt.  Because the clinical notes dont 
show this. Her dog had her vaccinations in July 2020, was seen for an itchy rash in 
September 2020, an upset tummy on 24 October 2020 and wasnt seen again until May 
2021 with the BOAS episode. So, there is simply no evidence of any steady decline or 
worsening over time at all, in my view. 
On this basis I fail to see how HDI has discharged its burden of proof that the first incident in 
May 2020 was at all linked to the episode in May 2021 to cause Ms Es claim to be from a pre-existing condition and so excluded. So, I consider its refusal to deal with and pay Ms Es 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms as to the benefit limit and excess to be 
unreasonable and unfair.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require HDI Global Specialty SE to do the following:
Reassess Ms Es claim under the remaining terms and condition of the policy with a 
view to paying it.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Ms E paid her vet to the date of its 
refund to her.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Ms E for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman