DRN-3610270
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited handled a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a collision with another driver. He reported this online to Watford and 
then he later called it and gave further details. Liability was disputed and five months later, 
Watford called Mr B to ask for further details. It also said the claim may be settled as 50/50 
split liability. 
Watford sent Mr B various letters saying either that his No Claims Bonus (NCB) had been 
allowed or disallowed. And finally, 21 months after the accident, it told him it had settled the 
claim as split liability and Mr B lost his two years NCB. Mr B was unhappy with this as he 
had given details of a witness and Watford hadnt inspected the cars for evidence of who 
caused the collision. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr B 
hadnt wanted to claim on his policy until liability was settled. She thought Watford had 
reasonably handled the claim and it had sent contradictory letters when it had closed the 
case due to the other insurers lack of response. She thought it had tried to contact the 
witness, but he hadnt provided a statement. And so she thought it had settled the claim as 
split liability as it was entitled to do because it wouldnt be able to fully defend Mr B if the 
matter went to court. 
Mr B said the other driver had undertaken him in the inside lane and the damage to his car 
would show this. He said Watford hadnt told him that he could claim on his policy for his 
repair costs. He said it hadnt explained what a 50/50 settlement meant. And he thought the 
matter should have gone to court. Mr B wanted Watford to refund him half his premium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the accident. I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated by how the 
claim was settled. And I can also see that this has been a stressful and confusing episode 
for him. Mr B has explained the financial consequences Watfords settlement of claim has 
had for him and that he hasnt had his car repaired. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that there were two conflicting versions of events. Mr B said the other driver 
undertook him when their lanes merged and collided with the passenger side of his car. The 
other driver said Mr B cut in front of him. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr B the same as someone else in his position. 
Watford is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or that it needs to be especially highlighted in 
the policy documents. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is 
reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
The evidence that Watford had to consider was the two drivers versions of events. These 
conflicted and so it was one drivers word against the others. I cant see that there was 
CCTV or dashcam evidence available, I can see that Mr B provided details of a witness and 
Watford contacted him five times to provide a statement, without success. Watford couldnt 
compel him to co-operate. So I think it reasonably tried to get the witnesss statement. 
Mr B thought Watford should have appointed an expert to inspect his car. But I think this 
would add further cost to a low value claim without necessarily showing that one driver was 
at fault.  
I think Watford then reasonably decided that, without any independent evidence, it wouldnt 
be able to defend the matter if it went to court. And so it settled the claim as 50/50 split 
liability. I think it was entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions after reasonably 
investigating the claim. So I cant say it did anything wrong. 
Mr B thought the matter should have gone to court. And I can see that both parties instructed 
solicitors. But I think Watford was entitled to minimise claim costs and, as it didnt think it 
could fully defend Mr B in court, then I think it reasonably decided to settle to avoid further 
risk and costs. 
Mr B was unhappy with how the claim was progressed and that he received confusing letters 
saying it had been closed and then reopened. But I think Watford progressed the claim 
reasonably and the delays were due to a lack of response from the other insurer. It updated 
Mr B when it closed the case due to this, but it warned him that it may be reopened. So I 
think Watford fairly managed Mr Bs expectations and kept him informed. 
Mr B said he wasnt told that he could make a claim. But I dont agree. I think he had the 
opportunity from the start and decided not to do so until liability was settled. Mr B said he 
didnt understand what was meant by the split liability settlement. But, from Watfords notes, 
I cant see that he asked it to explain this. And I think that when the claim was finally settled 
Watford did tell him that he could claim half his repair costs from the other insurer or make a 
claim on his own policy. 
As Im satisfied that Watford hasnt done anything wrong, I dont require it to pay Mr B any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman