DRN-3290743
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to process his account 
application in time to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme before it closed.
What happened
Mr A was an existing personal customer of HSBC and wanted to apply to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
HSBC required customers to hold a business relationship with the bank before it would offer 
them a Bounce Back Loan  so personal customers, like Mr A, had to open either a feeder 
account or business current account before they could apply for a loan.
Mr A applied for a feeder account in July 2020. In the weeks and months that followed, he 
contacted HSBC on a number of occasions to chase progress. Despite the bank escalating 
the matter and resubmitting the application several times, HSBC ultimately failed to assess it 
before the Bounce Back Loan Scheme closed on 31 March 2021. 
When Mr A complained, HSBC apologised for the inconvenience hed been caused but said 
that it was unable to proceed with the application with the Loan Scheme having ended. 
So Mr A asked us to look into things. He said that negligence on the banks part left him 
unable to obtain the £50,000 loan he wanted, which ultimately caused him to lose his 
business. And he said HSBC stopped him from applying elsewhere, as it only confirmed it 
wasnt able to proceed with his account application on the day the Loan Scheme closed. To 
put things right, he wants HSBC to proceed with his application as an exception and 
compensation of £25,000.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, that:
HSBC had failed to properly progress Mr As account application, causing significant 
delays without justification. This had required Mr A to chase things up and caused 
him some avoidable upset.
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme was now closed, so HSBC couldnt now consider an 
application from Mr A.
There was no guarantee that Mr As application for the feeder account wouldve been 
successful. Or even if it was, that the loan application itself wouldve been either.
From what hed seen, he didnt think Mr A wouldve been eligible for the loan he 
sought. This was because his turnover wasnt sufficient for Mr A to qualify for the 
£50,000 loan.
So to put things right, our investigator recommended that HSBC pay Mr A compensation of 
£500. As he didnt think Mr A wouldve obtained the loan even if HSBC had processed the 
application as it shouldve done, he didnt think it was responsible for any of the losses that 
Mr A claimed.
HSBC accepted our investigators view but Mr A didnt. He said that banks still had the 
authority to open Bounce Back Loan accounts in exceptional circumstances. He also said 
that a loan was guaranteed if a feeder account was opened and maintained that he was 
eligible, despite our investigators points regarding his turnover. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that because of errors on HSBCs part, Mr As feeder account application 
wasnt assessed prior to the closure of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme on 31 March 2021. 
So the only issue for me to decide is how Mr A should be compensated for the impact of this. 
I should firstly clarify that there is no longer any means by which HSBC could consider a 
Bounce Back Loan application from Mr A. There was a short window within which, in very 
specific circumstances, applications could be considered as an exception after the Scheme 
ended. But this has also now closed.
Mr A says that being without the loan causing him significant financial losses, and ultimately 
the collapse of his business. To require HSBC to compensate him for any of these losses, Id 
need to find that they were caused by what the bank did wrong. But I dont think they were. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our investigator explained, there is no guarantee that Mr As account application wouldve 
been successful had the bank processed it in time. Such applications were still subject to 
criteria, including credit-scoring. 
The bank would also only have opened a feeder account for Mr A if it could see that he was 
eligible for the Bounce Back Loan he was seeking. I dont think he was. Mr A says he 
wanted to apply for a loan of £50,000. Under the rules of the Loan Scheme, applicants could 
borrow up to a maximum of 25% of their annual turnover (for which the 2019 calendar year 
was to be used). Mr A therefore needed to have had a turnover of £200,000 during 2019 to 
be eligible. But the information Ive seen, including Mr As tax return and accounts for 
2019/20 and statements of the account through which he was running his business, show 
that Mr As turnover was significantly lower than £200,000 during 2019. 
So I dont think HSBC wouldve approved Mr As account or loan application on this basis. 
And while Mr A may have been able to apply elsewhere had HSBC declined the application 
before the Scheme closed, I dont think Mr A wouldve been successful in obtaining a loan 
from another provider for the same reasons.
It follows, then, that I dont think Mr A would be in a different position even if HSBC had 
properly processed his application. As I dont think he wouldve obtained the loan he was 
seeking, he would unfortunately have always incurred the losses that he did. So there is no 
basis on which I could reasonably require HSBC to compensate him for these.
I do, though, see that Mr A was caused some considerable upset and inconvenience by the 
delays in progressing his application. I appreciate that at the time of Mr As application, 
HSBC was dealing with both the significant impact of the pandemic and the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing under the government-backed loan schemes. But even taking 
all of that into account, the delays that Mr A experienced were excessive and unreasonable. 
Mr A had to chase HSBC up repeatedly, making a number of calls and having to raise 
complaints in an effort to drive progress. As well as being inconvenient and taking him away 
from his own business, this wouldve been increasingly stressful during an already difficult 
time  prolonging matters even if, as Ive said above, I dont think he would ultimately have 
obtained the loan he was seeking anyway.
So its right that Mr A is compensated for the stress, worry and inconvenience that HSBCs 
errors caused him. To that end, I also think that £500 is fair  so thats what Im requiring the 
bank to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr A compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman