DRN-3931832
The complaint
Mr E complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to turn down his 
income protection claim.
What happened
Mr E holds income protection cover with Aviva, the aim of which is to pay benefit if he cant 
work in his own occupation due to illness or injury. The policy has a 26-week deferred 
period. 
In March 2022, Mr E stopped work after experiencing pain in his chest and arm. It was then 
confirmed hed had a heart attack. He had surgery and was discharged from hospital and 
had cardiac rehabilitation. 
Mr E submitted a claim to Aviva, but this was turned down as Aviva didnt think Mr E had 
been incapacitated throughout the deferred period. Unhappy with this, Mr E brought a 
complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Avivas claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Mr E didnt accept our Investigators conclusions, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, Mr E needs to show that he meets the below policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the whole of the 26-week deferred period:
the Life Assured is totally unable because of illness or accidental injury to perform the 
material and substantial duties of their Employment and is not engaged in a remunerative 
occupation.
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence. 
Mr Es GP signed him off throughout the deferred period and said he could not work due to 
his acute myocardial infarction. 
Mr E was reviewed in April 2022 by a cardiac nurse and was noted to be making a good 
recovery. He had not experienced any chest pain or breathlessness, but did feel slightly 
tired, though he was reassured this was normal in the early stages. Mr E advised the nurse 
he intended to take at least a month off work.
In July 2022, Mr E was again reviewed by a cardiac nurse. The nurse said Mr E had made 
an excellent recovery following his cardiac event and he felt well. He denied any chest pain 
or shortness of breath, and had fully resumed his usual activities, including regular moderate 
exercise such as cycling, without issues. The nurse said that, as Mr E was well from a 
cardiac perspective and there were no concerns to address, she was discharging him back 
to his GP. 
In August 2022, Mr E saw his GP and explained he felt overwhelmed by his health and 
financial issues. The GP started him on antidepressant medication. The following month, 
Mr E had a review by a mental health nurse. He explained he had found his heart attack 
difficult to process. Mr E described other factors that were impacting him too, and said he 
was tired all the time and found it difficult to concentrate. Mr E was referred to secondary 
care for mood management.
Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO) reviewed the medical evidence, and said Mr Es heart 
attack had been successfully treated. He thought Mr Es continued absence was due to an 
adjustment reaction to the fact he had suffered a heart attack. He said this can manifest as 
fatigue, poor sleep and uncertainty about the future. The CMO noted that Mr E had been 
prescribed anti-depressant medication, but he thought Mr E had an adjustment disorder 
rather than depression. The CMO said counselling might help Mr E, but was of the view he 
could work, despite his emotional reaction. The CMO also said that, from a cardiovascular 
perspective, there was no requirement for Mr E to remain off work. 
Its clear that Mr E has been through a really difficult time. However, I agree with our 
Investigator that the available medical evidence doesnt support that Mr E was incapacitated 
from his role for the entire 26-week deferred period. It was reported in July 2022 that Mr E 
had made an excellent recovery from his heart attack, and he was discharged back to his 
GP. Although Mr Es mood was clearly affected towards the end of the deferred period, 
Avivas CMO thought he was experiencing an adjustment disorder rather than a mental 
health illness, and believed Mr E should still be able to work regardless of this. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr E, but I find it was reasonable for Aviva to turn 
down the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman