DRN-4002890
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc declined a credit card application without giving a 
reason why.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr L applied for a credit card with Santander. The application wasnt 
approved and Mr L asked Santander why this had happened.
Santander told Mr L that the application was assessed using information provided by him, 
his credit score, affordability, and any information about current and past accounts. They 
went on to say that they declined the application as a responsible lender and gave contact 
details for credit reference agencies should he wish to contact them. 
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Santander hadnt acted 
unreasonably and that Mr L had been given the opportunity to appeal with any extra 
evidence he wanted to provide. 
Mr L disagreed saying we hadnt dealt with his complaint properly, so the matter has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr L feels about what happened and I want to assure him Ive 
considered everything he has said when coming to a decision. 
Each business will have their own credit scoring criteria when assessing an application. 
Santander have explained they used information provided by Mr L, his credit score, 
affordability, and information about current and past accounts. These are the kind of things 
Id expect a lender to consider.
Santander considered this information and decided not to approve the application. Amongst 
other things they told Mr L If a customer already has outstanding credit this can also be a 
reason why further credit is not provided. They also gave contact details for credit reference 
agencies saying Mr L could contact them to find out why the application was declined. 
When bringing his complaint to our service Mr L said he wanted to know exactly why the 
application had been declined and for Santander to issue him with a credit card. 
My role here isnt necessarily to tell Santander to issue Mr L with a credit card as he has 
asked us to, rather it is to see if I think he has been treated fairly and reasonably during the 
application process. And looking at what happened Im satisfied that is the case. 
Santander considered all the information Id expect them to take into account when 
reviewing an application for credit. They made a business decision not to approve the 
application which is a decision they are entitled to make. And Im satisfied they gave Mr L an 
appropriate amount of information about how and why they made that decision. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Santander treated Mr L 
fairly and reasonably and wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman