DRN-2205373
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed its newly-
opened account.
Miss K is Os director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
O applied for a business current account with Lloyds. Lloyds began to open an account for O 
on 16 March 2020. But on completion of its checks the following day, the bank decided it 
didnt wish to offer O an account. It wrote to O on 17 March 2020 to say that it would be 
closing the account in 60 days time. And it restricted the account during that period.
Os previous director, Mr K, complained. He said that Lloyds had led him to believe the 
account could be used, so hed provided the new account details to customers and 
suppliers. Mr K also said that as Lloyds was only offering loans under the government-
backed schemes to existing customers, it had then declined Os application for a Bounce 
Back Loan.
Lloyds stood by its decision to close Os account, as it said the application hadnt met its 
requirements. And as it didnt have an account with Lloyds, it wasnt eligible to apply to the 
bank for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank said the account had been correctly blocked until 
closure but while it couldnt verify Mr Ks comments that hed been told he could use the 
account, it paid £150 compensation for any inconvenience O had experienced. 
One of our investigators looked into Os complaint, but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything more. In summary, she thought Lloyds had been entitled to decide to close the 
account and had done so in accordance with the terms and conditions. She couldnt see that 
Lloyds had said the account could be used in the interim, so in the circumstances 
considered the £150 already paid to be fair compensation for any inconvenience caused. 
Miss K didnt accept our investigators view. She said that O wouldnt have applied for a 
Bounce Back Loan with Lloyds or made changes to its banking arrangements if the bank 
hadnt advised that the account could be used. She also said that Lloyds decision to open 
and the close the account  rather than simply decline the application at the outset  had a 
bigger impact on Mr Ks credit file, which had left O unable to open a new account 
elsewhere. So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has explained that it didnt wish to offer O an account as its application didnt meet 
the banks criteria. Thats a decision it was entitled to make  banks are entitled to set their 
own criteria and assess applications against them, and ultimately decide who they wish to do 
business with. So I dont think Lloyds treated O unfairly in declining to offer it an account on 
the basis that it didnt meet the banks standard criteria.
I do, though, think the way Lloyds went about things couldve been better. Lloyds says that 
the application didnt meet its criteria and so was declined  yet it had already started 
opening an account for O. It says that its checks were still ongoing, so it didnt consider the 
account open. But as an account had been created, Lloyds had to close it. Even then it 
didnt close the account immediately, and gave 60 days notice. But as the account was 
restricted during that period, O couldnt use the account anyway. While this was all 
conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account, it seems to have 
been more convoluted than it needed to be.
In the end, I dont think this caused O to lose out. As O didnt meet the banks criteria, it was 
never going to have an account with Lloyds and therefore wasnt going to be able to obtain a 
Bounce Back Loan from it either. Lloyds notified O of its decision to close the account the 
day after it was created. As no funds were ever deposited in the account, the restriction and 
closure didnt impact Os access to funds or ability to meet its commitments. And while 
Miss K says that Lloyds actions had a greater detrimental impact on Os credit record than if 
the application had been declined outright, Ive not seen any evidence to support that  or 
more importantly, that theyve affected Os applications for accounts or borrowing elsewhere.
I can see how O was put to some inconvenience as a consequence of believing the account 
to be open and ready to use. While Ive not found that Lloyds explicitly stated that the 
account could be used during the notice period, I accept that Mr K would have assumed, 
quite reasonably, that it was operational after he received the account details. He said this 
led him to inform some of Os suppliers and clients of the new account for them to use. While 
no transactions were ever run through the account, and the bank communicated its decision 
swiftly after the account was set up, I can see how it wouldve caused O some 
inconvenience in having to get back in touch with those parties to amend the account details 
for a second time. But I think the £150 that Lloyds has already paid to O is fair compensation 
for the extra administrative work it mightve been put to in this respect. So Im not directing it 
do anything more to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman