DRN-2932061
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD trading as Nova Direct online 
arrangement of his home emergency policy and the linked cancellation charges he had to 
pay.
What happened
Mr S attempted to take out a home emergency policy online with Nova Direct to be paid on a 
monthly basis, but he encountered problems at the payment stage. As a result, he 
completed the online application again with a different card to complete the purchase.
Shortly afterwards Mr S checked his email and found hed received confirmation from Nova 
Direct that he had in fact purchased two home emergency policies with identical cover for 
the same risk address:
First Policy was set up on 24 December 2020 at 5:39am. This policy was set up by 
Mr S to be paid on a monthly basis funded by a separate credit agreement with a 
finance company.
Second Policy was set up on 24 December 2020 at 5:55am. This policy was paid 
for by Mr S with a one-off annual premium payment.
Initially after being unable to get the help he wanted to resolve this over the phone, Mr S 
managed to request cancellation of the second policy through a link provided by Nova 
Direct. But Mr S was upset at being charged £9.98 for the cancellation.
As a result, Mr S wrote to Nova Direct requesting a refund of the £9.98 cancellation fee and 
said that hed never wanted to take out two policies and had only done so due to issues with 
the system. He said that if Nova Direct didnt want to give him a refund then he would cancel 
the first policy as well. Nova Direct didnt agree to Mr Ss refund request. It said the charge 
was in line with its policy terms.
So, Mr S did go to the website and requested cancellation, and thought hed paid the £9.98 
cancellation fee for the first policy. But Mr S wasnt sure if this had worked because he said 
he was still getting correspondence from Nova Direct asking for payments. So, a couple of 
weeks later Mr S went back on the same website and again cancelled the policy and was 
charged the £9.98 cancellation fee again. Mr S also followed this up with cancellation of the 
associated direct debit with his bank.
Records show that two direct debit payments of £13.99 each were collected by the finance 
company that funded the first policy before the direct debit cancellation was processed. 
Subsequently in February 2021, Mr S was contacted by Nova Direct asking again for him to 
arrange to make the premium payments as he was now in arrears for the first policy.
Although Mr S doesnt feel any cancellation fee is justified, he has accepted he has to pay 
one cancellation fee. Therefore, to resolve this complaint against Nova Direct he asked for 
the extra cancellation fees to be refunded.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said Nova Direct was within its rights to accept 
and set up the first policy and so a cancellation fee of £9.98 for this was fair. But he said 
even though Mr S might have applied twice to cancel the first policy, Nova Direct shouldnt 
have charged him twice for the same policy cancellation. He also said Nova Direct should 
refund the £9.98 fee it charged to cancel the second policy because he felt Nova Direct 
shouldnt have allowed a second identical policy for the same risk address to be set up.
Nova Direct agreed to refund one of the cancellation fees for the first policy. But it didnt 
accept that the two policies being set up was its fault. So, it wouldnt refund the cancellation 
fee for the second policy. Unhappy with this Nova Direct asked for this complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
This service also has Mr Ss complaint about the premium refunds under a separate 
complaint against the insurer. But this decision deals only with the complaint against Nova 
Direct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said his intention was always to take out a home emergency policy and to pay it on a 
monthly basis. Therefore, I am satisfied Nova Direct was entitled under its terms to charge 
Mr S a cancellation fee of £9.98 when Mr S applied to cancel the first policy. I think thats 
reasonable.
But Nova Direct shouldnt have charged Mr S a second time for cancelling the same policy. 
Its clear that issues with the system led to Mr S setting up the policy for a second time and it 
follows that as he was still being asked to pay premiums he thought the first cancellation 
hadnt concluded correctly. For Nova to say it was all down to Mr S as he took the actions 
feels unfair.
It was Nova Directs system that allowed Mr S to set the policy up twice for the same address 
in the first place. Further, it was this system that took payment twice to cancel the same 
policy. Reasons given by Mr S for his actions are perfectly logical and understandable. 
When he first set up the policy it appeared to go wrong, and he didnt think the purchase had 
completed. So, he went through the process for a second time and this time it seemed to 
work successfully. To later find out that it had worked first time around would not have given 
Mr S great confidence in Nova Direct or its system. I think that it is unsurprising that when he 
then tried to cancel and was still receiving correspondence about the monthly payments, he 
thought his first attempt at cancellation hadnt worked. So, he went through the cancellation 
process again. I think most people would expect to find that a system wouldnt let them 
cancel something again, and pay for it again, if they had already done it previously.
Nova Direct have since agreed to refund the second of the cancellation fee of £9.98 for the 
first policy. It appears both parties have accepted our investigators conclusions surrounding 
this aspect. So, Nova Direct should refund this amount if it hasnt already done so.
That means I only need to decide on whether Nova Direct should also refund the 
cancellation fee of £9.98 it charged for the second policy.
Nova Direct said it had no reports of errors with their website at the time Mr S says he 
encountered problems. And indeed, it isnt disputed by Mr S that he completed the 
application twice. However, it is clear that Mr S didnt need two policies for the same address. I have no reason to believe Mr S would have chosen to take out two identical 
policies for the same address and he is clear as to how and why it happened. Mr S said 
there appeared to be a problem at payment stage and he didnt think payment had been 
accepted. Ive no reason to doubt this as Mr S wouldnt want to pay twice for effectively the 
same thing.
In any case even if Nova Direct were able to convince me that Mr S did want to take out two 
policies for the exact same address Mr S wouldnt be able to expect payment twice for the 
same claim under his home emergency policy.
I think the problem lies with the Nova Direct system as it allowed two policies to be set up 
one straight after the other for the exact same risk. I appreciate the application process is 
entirely online and the Nova Direct system might not be able to identify existing consumers 
to prevent dual insurance. But I consider this a short coming at Nova Direct not with Mr S. 
Im not asking Nova Direct to change its process or systems  that is not my role. But what I 
can do is look to resolve Mr Ss individual complaint and deal with what happened to him.
I understand Nova Direct didnt identify the second application as a dual policy for the same 
risk. But I dont think Nova Direct can insist that a customer who clearly had difficulties with 
the system it requires its customers to use should pay for any issues that spring from that. I 
dont think Nova Direct acted fairly or reasonably.
As mentioned earlier in this decision if it hasnt already done so Nova Direct should refund 
the second cancellation fee of £9.98 it applied to the first policy. As the second policy was 
clearly never needed and should never have been set up it should also refund the 
cancellation fee of £9.98 for the second policy too. Simple interest at 8% should be applied 
to any outstanding refunds from the date Mr S made the payment up to the date Nova Direct 
issues settlement.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already it should now reimburse Mr S the extra cancellation fee of £9.98 it 
applied for the first policy;
Reimburse Mr S a further cancellation fee of £9.98 it applied for the second policy;
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on any outstanding refund payments, from the date 
Mr S made the payments until the date Nova Direct settles them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD trading as Nova Direct to:
If it hasnt already it should now reimburse Mr S the extra cancellation fee of £9.98 it 
applied for the first policy;
Reimburse Mr S a further cancellation fee of £9.98 it applied for the second policy;
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on any outstanding refund payments, from the date 
Mr S made the payments until the date Nova Direct settles them.
*If Nova Direct considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman