DRN-2407016
The complaint
 Mr M complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (T/A Legal & General) dealt with 
and progressed a claim he made for a lost mobile phone.
What happened
 Mr M holds an insurance policy, which is underwritten by Fairmead Insurance Limited (T/A 
Legal & General), hereafter referred to as L&G. He incepted that policy in October 2019.
On 24 November 2019 Mr M lost his mobile phone while travelling on public transport. He 
immediately asked his network provider to cancel his SIM card and he obtained a 
replacement SIM. He reported the loss of his phone to the public transport provider. And, on 
26 November 2019, he reported his loss to L&G as he wanted to make a claim for a 
replacement phone under his policy.
Mr M said a number of third parties were involved in dealing his claim, which hindered him, 
and presented barriers, in the progression of his claim. He said he experienced long and 
unnecessary delays as a result. And he said he was without a phone for six weeks, which 
cause significant inconvenience. So, he complained.
L&G investigated Mr Ms concerns and issued its final response to his complaint on 18 
March 2020. In its final response letter, it acknowledged that Mr M had provided supporting 
documentation about his claim. But it said there had been a delay in the policy cover details 
being provided. It said it wasnt responsible for the delay caused. And it stated it had 
contacted Mr M immediately on the date information about his policy had been provided. 
L&G told Mr M his claim had been correctly handled. It therefore didnt uphold his complaint.
Dissatisfied with L&Gs response to his complaint, Mr M referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and empathised with him. They recommended 
upholding his complaint as they werent persuaded L&G had dealt with his claim fairly. 
Our investigator thought L&G should pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. L&G agreed to make that payment. But Mr M rejected our investigators view of 
his complaint as he thought our service should award £250 compensation instead. So, this 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. I know he feels very strongly 
about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons hes brought this complaint to our service. 
Id like to thank Mr M and L&G for the level of detail contained in their submissions. Ive read 
and considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a point 
that Mr M or L&G have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus 
on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
I want to acknowledge at the outset that I think Mr M dealt with his claim proactively. He 
reported the loss of his phone promptly to L&G, the public transport provider and his network 
provider. And he supplied L&G with all the documents he was able to provide to substantiate 
his loss. I dont think he could have done anymore here.
Mr M has complained about the overall claims process  he says there were several third 
parties involved in dealing with his claim. I can see he had to liaise with several companies 
to progress his claim. And I can understand why that might be frustrating. But we cant tell a 
business how it should operate or that it should change its policies. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen it appears Mr Ms claim took longer than expected because 
of the delays L&G experienced in receiving his policy documents. It needed to check his 
mobile phone was covered before it could validate his claim. And it could only do so once it 
had received a copy of his policy documents.
The policy documentation seems to have been provided to L&G on 23 December 2019. So, 
Ive thought about whether it proactively chased the provision of the documentation needed. 
I can see Mr M was in regular contact to request an update on this claim. But, from the case 
notes and business records L&G has provided our service, it appears that it made little 
progress with Mr Ms claim until 12 December 2019, which coincided with him raising a 
complaint. 
Like our investigator I think most of the actions and chasing up of information was only done 
once Mr M had complained. It isnt clear why L&G couldnt have obtained Mr Ms policy 
details prior to 23 December 2019 and I think more could have been done by L&G to secure 
that information beforehand.
I can see Mr M was asked by L&G on a number of occasions to prove that his lost mobile 
phone handset had been blacklisted. Hes told us he checked four times and had to provide 
a copy of a live chat transcript between him and his mobile phone network provider to prove 
the handset had been blacklisted. He believes this was unnecessary.
Ive carefully reviewed the live chat transcript Mr M provided to our service. I believe this is 
the same transcript he sent L&G. The transcript is dated 27 November 2019 and it shows his 
handset had only been blacklisted that day. 
L&G could only progress Mr Ms claim to the settlement stage once it had received evidence 
the handset had been blacklisted. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably in delaying his 
settlement until it had been provided with that information.
Ive considered whether L&G acted proactively once it received evidence showing Mr Ms 
handset had been blacklisted. And I cant fairly find it caused a delay here. I say this 
because on 28 December 2019 L&G informed Mr M of the cash amount it would pay to 
settle his claim. It also offered him a voucher for a higher amount in the alternative. And, on 
31 December 2019, L&G emailed Mr M confirming that it had issued a voucher for him to 
use to replace his lost phone. I therefore think L&G acted promptly once it had been 
provided with evidence of backlisting. And Im not persuaded it presented any unnecessary 
barriers to the progression of Mr Ms claim in this regard.I can see that Mr M has complained about the overall time it took for L&G to resolve his 
claim. In its final response to his complaint L&G told him it is not unusual for a claim to take 
around five or six weeks to settle as the validation process can take some time to complete. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr Ms claim was settled at the end of December 2019, 
which is within this time frame. I do think, though, that if L&G had done more to chase up the 
policy information it required to validate Mr Ms claim its likely the claim would have been 
settled more quickly. And, to this extent, I think there was some delay on the part of L&G, 
which resulted in unfairness to Mr M as it meant his wait for a new phone was more proacted 
than necessary. And I think its right that L&G compensate Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Putting things right
 Our investigator recommended that L&G pay Mr M £100 compensation to resolve this 
complaint. Its clear hes unhappy with that amount. He feels it doesnt adequately recognise 
the trouble and upset he experienced. And he wants our service to make a compensation 
award of £250 instead. Ive therefore assessed whether the level of compensation our 
investigator recommended appropriately recognises what happened here.
We dont punish businesses by awarding damages or compensation as this isnt our role. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award our service must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
I understand that L&G has already reimbursed Mr M for the cost of a replacement mobile 
phone - less the excess he had to pay under the terms of the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr M is 
no longer out of pocket as a result of what happened. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be 
fair or impartial of me to make an award for financial loss against L&G.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact L&Gs actions had on Mr M 
and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, what an appropriate amount of 
compensation might be. 
Its clear to me that Mr Ms experience here went beyond mere irritation. He was caused 
distress and inconvenience by the way in which his claim for a replacement mobile phone 
was dealt with. And Ive already explained why I think this protracted the time he was without 
his replacement mobile phone.  
I recognise that pursuing his claim has been a very stressful experience for Mr M but its 
inherent with any insurance claim that there will be a degree of stress and considerable 
inconvenience. Here, though, I think some of the distress and inconvenience Mr H suffered 
could have been avoided.
I appreciate that Mr M spent a fair amount of time in raising his complaint with L&G and in 
bringing his complaint to our service. I acknowledge his inconvenience in doing so and 
appreciate that this has taken up a lot of everyones time. 
Ive taken on board everything Mr M has said about how hed been affected by what 
happened. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that £100 
compensation is a reasonable amount of compensation thats proportionate to the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience that Mr M would have been caused here. As our investigator has 
already explained, its in line with our approach in similar scenarios. And its what I would 
have told L&G to pay. I appreciate Mr M wants L&G to pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. So, I wont be asking L&G to pay more 
than £100 compensation to resolve this complaint.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ms dispute with L&G informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Fairmead Insurance Limited (T/A 
Legal & General) should pay Mr M £100 to resolve this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman