DRN-2012251
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the forced closures of his foreign exchange (forex) based trades 
in his Swissquote Ltd (SL) Contracts for Differences (CFD) account on 2 January 2019 
(the date); and about SLs execution prices for the trades.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She shared an initial view on it, in which 
she considered that it should not be upheld. Upon receipt of additional evidence from Mr R, 
she revised that view and concluded that the complaint about his dissatisfaction with SLs 
execution prices should be upheld. In the course of addressing the complaint she noted that 
Mr R had said he was also unhappy with a lack of information about SLs pricing benchmark 
and about his trades being negotiated outside a regulated market.
The investigators initial view was mainly as follows:
A market event in Asia on the date caused a flash crash in the forex market which 
negatively affected the prices for Mr Rs trades. The effect was a margin breach in 
his account, resulting from an increase in the total floating loss in his trades reducing 
equity in the account below the level required to maintain margin (50%).
This breach triggered automatic closures of the trades and this was required under 
regulations applicable to retail client accounts like Mr Rs.
Mr Rs trades took place Over-The-Counter (OTC), directly between him and SL 
(and based on SLs prices). SLs prices were to be as it determined but they also 
ought to have been reflective of  but not necessarily identical to  prices in the 
underlying market or prices from other brokers.
Trading chart evidence from SL for the currency pairs in Mr Rs trades showed that 
its prices were roughly in line with the relevant closing prices in the underlying 
market. As such, they appear to have been reflective of the underlying market.
SLs Order Execution Policy (OEP) was part of the overall terms for the account that 
Mr R would have agreed at the outset. It explained the OTC nature of CFD trading in 
the account; it explained that trades are not executed on a regulated trading 
exchange; and it explained the basis of SLs pricing for trades. As such, there was no 
lack of information to Mr R in these respects. 
Mr R responded with the following main comments and evidence:
The currency pairs relevant to his trades were  AUD/USD, EUR/JPY, GBP/JPY, 
AUD/JPY, CAD/JPY, AUD/NZD, GBP/AUD and GBP/NZD.
He submitted trading price evidence for these pairs, on the date, based on the prices 
offered by SL in comparison with the prices offered by four comparator broker firms 
(FXDD, Naga Markets, ProRealTime and IG). He illustrated how, based on the prices 
from the other brokers, his trades would not have been affected (or closed) as they 
were on SLs prices.
For AUD/USD on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 0.67393 and 0.6837; these prices would not have affected his buy trade; 
whereas SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trade  was 0.64621.
For EUR/JPY on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 118.319 and 119.93; these would not have affected his buy trade; whereas 
SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trade  was 115.967.
For GBP/JPY on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 131.622 and 132.474; these would not have affected his buy trades; 
whereas SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trades  was 126.762.
For AUD/JPY on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 70.581 and 72.77; these would not have affected his buy trade; whereas 
SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trade  was 68.422.
For CAD/JPY on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 76.159 and 77.68; these would not have affected his buy trade; whereas 
SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trade  was 75.402.
For AUD/NZD on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 1.0160 and 1.0279; these would not have affected his buy trades; whereas 
SLs lowest price  which adversely affected his trades  was 0.94888.
For GBP/AUD on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 1.7957 and 1.79858; SLs lowest price was 1.77537; the highest prices 
offered by the comparator brokers were between 1.8285 and 1.84625; SLs highest 
price was 1.85618; his pending sell trade was opened by SL at 1.77609, a level that 
prices from the comparator brokers never reached, so the trade would not have been 
opened on their prices; and the trade was then closed by SL, at a loss, at 1.91475 
which was a level that was never reached by the prices from the comparator brokers 
or by the prices from SL itself.
For GBP/NZD on the date, the lowest prices offered by the comparator brokers were 
between 1.8652 and 1.87915; SLs lowest price was 1.81647; his pending sell trade 
was opened by SL at 1.86256, which was a level that prices from the comparator 
brokers never reached, so the trade would not have been opened on their prices; and 
if the trade had not been opened the loss incurred when it was closed would not have 
happened.
The comparisons show that, overall, SLs prices were not reflective of the market and 
were unfair; they caused an equally unfair and detrimental effect on his trades; that 
effect was compounded by further effects on other trades once the margin breach 
caused their close-outs; he should be compensated for the financial losses he 
incurred from this.
The investigators revised view was mainly as follows:
Mr Rs evidence prompted her to re-visit SLs pricing policy  which says its prices 
were self-determined and based on a mark-up or mark-down on the inter-bank rates 
 and to compare its prices on the date for Mr Rs trade pairs to relevant inter-bank 
rates recorded by the Bank of England (BoE), the European Central Bank (ECB), 
the Bank of Canada (BoC) and the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA).
The inter-bank rates for the date and SLs prices (for the date) were listed and 
compared; the comparison showed, overall, a substantial difference between SLs 
prices for the relevant currency pairs and the inter-bank rates for those pairs; overall, 
SLs prices for those pairs were not reflective of the market on the date; this 
remained the conclusion even after allowance for reasonable marking up or down by 
SL and this allowance did not mean it could set any prices it chose to set.
In addition, SL says it had only one liquidity provider (LP), which was its parent 
company, so there is no independent or third-party evidence to show that its prices 
were fairly generated.SL had an obligation to apply fair prices to Mr Rs trades and evidence does not 
show that it did, so the complaint should be upheld and Mr R should receive 
compensation based on returning him to the position he would have held if his trades 
were closed on the inter-bank rates listed. In addition, he should receive £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him.
The investigator acknowledged, as reflected in her initial view, that the prices for the trades 
were off-exchange (or OTC) so there was no particular price benchmark that SL was 
required to follow. She said she reached her revised conclusion because, in the absence of 
such a benchmark, the inter-bank rates are a fair basis for determining the prices Mr Rs 
trades should have been closed at. 
Mr R welcomed this outcome, but he also took the view that there should be added 
compensation to him for the potential that, but for the close-outs of his trades by SL, the 
price levels for them could thereafter have moved in his favour. He also asked for compound 
interest on the compensation awarded to him. The investigator was persuaded by neither 
point; she retained the view that the close-outs were not wrong and that they were caused 
by the flash crash in prices and the margin breach in his account; she explained that this 
service does not award compound interest; and she explained that this service could 
consider simple interest but because SL did nothing wrong in the close-outs she did not 
consider that such interest should be applied.
SL disagreed with the outcome and in the main it said:
It (and its prices) ought not to be held accountable to the inter-bank rates quoted by 
the investigator.
The inter-bank rates are the reserve of only the largest market participants and 
neither SL nor a retail client like Mr R would ever have had access to such rates. 
Reference in its pricing policy to marking up or down the inter-bank rates was for 
indicative/reference purposes only.
Quoted notices from the BoE, ECB, BoC and RBA  with regards to their inter-bank 
rates  all say that the rates serve an indicative or reference purpose and that they 
are not intended for actual market transactions.
It does not set its prices arbitrarily and, in practice, it can only trade off prices that are 
reflective of the underlying market. In addition, it apologises for not previously 
clarifying that its LP arrangements include an independent third party that checks and 
balances its application of best execution.
It did nothing wrong in applying the close-outs to Mr Rs trades.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators initial view on the close-outs applied to Mr Rs 
trades and with her revised view with regards to SLs prices for the trades. I also conclude 
that there was no lack of information to him about SLs pricing policy and the OTC nature of 
trading in his account  given that the OEP provided him with information about both.As is common in the sector, Mr Rs account had a minimum margin requirement which he 
was contractually obliged to monitor and manage in the course of his trading; it was his 
responsibility to maintain equity in his account (inclusive of the effects of floating profits and 
losses in open trades) at or above the level required to avoid breaching the requirement; the 
consequence of breaching the requirement included the forced closure of open trades; and 
available evidence supports the conclusion that this is what happened in his case and what 
resulted in the forced closures of his trades. A margin breach occurred in his account on the 
date due to an increase in his floating/uncrystallised losses across his open trades, and that 
led to the forced closures of his trades.
The next issue to address is the cause of the price movement that increased the losses in 
Mr Rs trades and led to the margin breach (and forced closures). The flash crash, on the 
date, that has been mentioned does not appear to be in dispute between the parties. I do not 
consider that it should or can fairly be disputed. There is ample information in the public 
domain about its occurrence on the date and its negative effect  albeit temporary  
particularly on the USD/JPY and AUD/USD currency pairs. It is noteworthy that the effects 
on these two pairs would inevitably have had further effects on the eight pairs in Mr Rs 
trades  seven of them featured the USD, the JPY and/or the AUD.
The flash crash on the date was not caused by SL  no evidence has been presented to 
suggest otherwise  and it was not within its control. Unfortunately for Mr R, it had the effect 
of triggering the margin breach (and closure of trades) in his account, however that 
happened because the price moved against his trades and he had insufficient equity in his 
account. SL is not at fault in this respect and it was entitled to apply the close-outs as it did. 
However, it should have  and does not appear to have  applied prices to the trades which 
were reflective of the underlying market, and I address this further below. As Mr R illustrated, 
it even appears to have applied a price in one trade that did not reflect the market and did 
not reflect its own prices.
The fairness of SLs prices  for the trades on the date  is a distinct matter. I understand the 
argument that Mr R might seek to make in terms of considering whether (or not) the margin 
breach and close-outs could have been avoided if different prices were applied to his trades. 
On balance, this appears to have been unlikely. As the investigator noted, he already had 
around 25,000 Euros in floating losses in his account before the flash crash and close-outs 
happened and the margin breach was triggered around the additional loss of around 18,000 
Euros caused by the flash crash. His account was exhausting equity even before the flash 
crash and the crash meant prices moved further against most of his trades. Overall and on 
balance, I am not persuaded that the application of prices that reflected the market would 
have made a meaningful difference to the trades, the margin breach or the close-outs. 
The price comparison exercise conducted by Mr R is as summarised above. It presents 
compelling evidence of some notable mismatches between the prices from SL and other 
operators in the market on the date. Of course, SL was not bound by prices from other firms 
in the market. In the context of an OTC market  and one without a central or trading 
exchange  it was entitled to set its own our price. Its OEP had a contractual effect and 
permitted it to set its own prices, as principal and counterparty in the trades. However, and 
as it concedes, its prices ought to have been reflective of the underlying market.
The differences between SLs prices and those of other firms, who would/should also have 
been guided by the underlying market, does not help its case in showing that its prices were 
broadly consistent with the market. The investigators analysis of its prices and the inter-
bank prices defeats its case even further. As she noted, the inter-bank rates were not a 
benchmark that SL was obliged to comply with. I accept SLs comment that they are mainly 
for indicative and reference purposes. I also understand its point that they are mainly used between the largest participants in the market. Nevertheless, it is evident  from SLs pricing 
policys reference to determining prices on the basis of mark-ups and mark-downs of the 
inter-bank rates  that the inter-bank rates cannot reasonably be deemed irrelevant. 
The inter-bank rates held a meaningful measure of relevance to SLs determination of its 
prices and even with allowances for reasonable mark-ups or mark-downs to those rates, 
most of its prices on the date for the pairs in Mr Rs trades still present themselves as 
outliers. Two of the examples the investigator presented in her revised view showed the 
following  EUR/JPY inter-bank rate of 124.28, in contrast to SLs rate of 117.578; and 
GBP/NZD inter-bank rate of 1.8914, in contrast to SLs rate of 1.81647. I do not suggest that 
an identical match ought to have been the case or that SLs rate should not have differed 
beyond a specific level. However, the point is that most of its rates were notably different 
from the third-party rates it used as reference points for its prices  without evidence of a 
plausible reason(s) for this beyond the application of mark-ups/down (which do not explain 
all the differences).
Putting things right
Overall and on balance, I consider that the prices applied to Mr Rs trades were not fair  
and, as I noted above, there appears to be evidence that one such price was not even 
reflective of SLs price range on the date. On this basis, a fair outcome is for the closure of 
his trades to be re-calculated on fair prices. Without determining or suggesting that he (or 
SL) would have had access to the inter-bank rates for the relevant trades on the date, I 
consider them a fair and reasonable basis to resolve such a recalculation.
SL must do as follows: 
Calculate  based on available account activity records of the closed trades  the 
price(s) at which each of Mr Rs trades was closed on the date and the profit/loss 
outcome of each trade. Each outcome will be the actual value.
Calculate  based on the relevant inter-bank rates for the relevant currency pairs on 
the date (and as quoted in the investigators revised view)  the price(s) at which 
each of Mr Rs trades would have closed on the date and the profit/loss outcome of 
each trade. Each outcome will be the fair value.
If, for each trade, the fair value is greater than the actual value SL must pay the 
difference to Mr R in compensation. This must be applied individually for each trade.
Pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
For the reasons given by the investigator, I do not accept Mr Rs claim for additional interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint with regards to the prices applied to 
his trades and I order Swissquote Ltd to pay him compensation as set out above. 
Swissquote Ltd must also provide Mr R with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman