DRN-3765334
The complaint
The estate of Mr K complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc (Computershare) 
has failed to act on its instruction to sell shares that were held by the late Mr K.
What happened
I understand that in June 2021, after the representative acting for the late Mr Ks estate had 
notified Computershare that Mr K had died, Computershare wrote to the representative 
setting out what he needed to do to register Mr Ks death with Computershare. 
The representative says he responded to this letter in late December 2021, once probate 
had been obtained. He says he sent the original Grant of Probate for notation and asked for 
it to be returned. He also sent a completed dealing form that had been provided by 
Computershare, instructing it to sell the shares that had been held by the late Mr K. 
Computershare replied to say the dealing form the representative had submitted (which 
Computershare had sent to him in June 2021) was not valid as it had stopped using the 
broker named on the form. It said it couldnt accept the form and provided an updated 
version that reflected it now provided an in-house dealing service.
The representative replied in late January 2022, enclosing a new dealing instruction form.
On 3 February 2022, Computershare responded again. It said it could not act on the 
instruction to sell the shares as before the shares can be sold the death needs to be 
formally registered with ourselves. It referred the representative to the bereavement pack it 
had sent to him in early June 2021 and said that if he required more help, he could contact 
its customer service helpline.
I have not been provided with anything to show that the representative contacted 
Computershare to query what more it required in order to formally register Mr Ks death. It 
appears that the representative next contacted Computershare in late March 2022. He wrote 
to say he was following up on the instruction he had sent in late January 2022 and would be 
obliged to receive the proceeds of sale of these shares by return.
Computershare responded in early April 2022, and again noted that as the estate has not 
yet been formally registered, it was unable to act on the instruction to sell the shares. It 
again suggested that the representative could contact its helpline if he required any 
assistance with formally registering the late Mr Ks death.
In mid-April 2022, the representative wrote to Computershare to complain about the service 
it had provided. He said he had sent the Grant of Probate in late December 2021 and that if 
the shares were not sold without delay or alternatively a clear and concise response 
identifying what documentation (if any) is outstanding I will have no option but to refer this 
matter to the Financial Conduct Authority.
Computershare acknowledged and then responded to the complaint. It said it felt its letters 
could have been more helpful, but it reiterated that it would be unable to act on the 
instruction to sell the shares as Mr Ks death had not been formally registered with it. It 
offered to pay £25 for any failings in its communication with the representative.  
The representative was not satisfied with Computershares response and referred the matter 
to this service.
Our investigator said they didnt think the complaint should be upheld as they didnt think 
Computershare had acted incorrectly in this matter. They noted that the shares were 
registered with Computershare using one of the late Mr Ks forenames and his surname. 
However, the form instructing the sale of the shares gave three forenames for the late Mr K. 
In view of this they said they felt it was not unreasonable for Computershare to say it 
required the Grant of Probate to reflect the forename the late Mr K had been known by.
The representative did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he had provided 
the Grant of Probate in late December 2021. He said that Computershare had not raised an 
issue regarding the mismatch between its records showing one forename for the late Mr K, 
and the three forenames his representative had recorded on the dealing form (and that were 
set out in the Grant of Probate) until May 2022. He said this was around 5 months after he 
had sent the Grant of Probate to Computershare. He also said Computershare was still 
claiming that they need the Grant of Probate and are therefore still denying that they had it in 
their possession. That it was in their possession is proved beyond doubt, firstly by the fact 
that they returned other documents in the same letter and secondly by the fact that they are 
now claiming that there is a difference in names.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Computershare is responsible for the delay in selling the late 
Mr Ks shares. Ill explain why.
Computershare explained, in the information it provided to the representative in June 2021, 
that the shares could not be sold until Mr Ks death had been formally registered with it.  
The representative says he sent the Grant of Probate to Computershare in late December 
2021. I asked Computershare to check its records again and it has confirmed to this service 
that it has no record of having received a Grant of Probate for the late Mr K.
I cannot say with any certainty whether the Grant of Probate was misplaced by 
Computershare, never sent to it by the representative, or lost in the post. 
But I am satisfied that from its letter dated early February 2022, Computershare has been 
consistent in its position that it does not have the Grant of Probate. 
It is not clear to me why, despite three letters from Computershare in February, April, and 
May 2022, setting out that the shares could not be sold until Mr Ks death had been formally 
registered with it, the representative has not made arrangements to send a certified copy of 
the Grant of Probate (as it appears the original has been lost) to Computershare. I cannot 
reasonably hold Computershare responsible for this delay.
Likewise, although I appreciate that the representative found it frustrating that 
Computershare was not able to accept the dealing form it originally submitted for the sale of 
the shares, I dont think this caused any delay in the sale, because  as Computershare has 
explained - the shares could not be sold until Mr Ks death had been registered.I note the representative has said that he feels Computershares claim that it has not 
received the original Grant of Probate  is totally inconsistent with the claim that the names 
were wrong. I dont agree with his position on this. The forms submitted for the sale of the 
shares set out three forenames for Mr K, but the electronic records Computershare holds in 
respect of Mr Ks shareholding, a copy of which has been provided to this service, only 
contains one forename. In view of this I cannot reasonably agree with the representatives 
position that Computershare must have received the Grant of Probate to be able to raise a 
query about Mr Ks forenames. I apologise if there was any confusion in our investigators 
response on this point.
The representative has also said, that it [the Grant of Probate] was in their possession is 
proved beyond doubt, firstly by the fact that they returned other documents in the same 
letter Again, I cant reasonably agree with the representatives position. Even if 
Computershare received other documents he sent to it, this does not prove that the Grant of 
Probate was received. 
I am satisfied that Computershare responded promptly in early February 2022 and explained 
that before the shares can be sold the death needs to be formally registered with ourselves.  
As I have not seen anything that would allow me to say with any certainty, that 
Computershare received the Grant of Probate in late 2021, or at any time since then, I 
cannot reasonably find that Computershare has unreasonably delayed the sale of the 
shares.
I understand that as Computershare has still not received the Grant of Probate the shares 
have still not been sold. I note that Computershare has already explained to the 
representative that he will also need to arrange for new dealing forms to be completed as, 
following a Corporate Action, the number of shares has changed. He will also need to 
provide the Grant of Probate or a certified copy of it, in order for the share sale to proceed. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, I dont think Computershare needs to do more 
than it has already done to resolve this matter. I simply leave it to him to now provide the 
Grant of Probate (or a certified copy) and updated dealing forms in order for the sale of the 
shares to proceed.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman