DRN-1967891
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled his chargeback claim 
after he rented a car.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M rented a car from a care hire business. Mr M had pre-booked the car 
from overseas, which included insurance. However, when he arrived at the car hire depot, 
he was told his insurance policy wasnt valid, as it had been purchased in the USA, and he 
needed to take out further insurance in order to hire a car.
 
Mr M says after a very lengthy and tiring debate with the counter staff he reluctantly agreed 
to purchase the insurance policy so that he could hire a car. Mr M paid £391.76 for the 
insurance using his credit card. Mr M says he wasnt provided with an insurance policy and 
believes the hire company has a reputation for acting fraudulently. Mr M said the hire 
company took a further payment of £1,397.54 from his credit card as it claimed he was in 
breach of his car hire contract, which Mr M disputed. Mr M complained to NatWest about 
both transactions and asked the bank to raise a chargeback claim.
 
Mr M says on 12 February 2019, NatWest sent him an email which stated his credit card 
would be refunded £391.76, but he has never received this. He also says NatWest 
transferred £1,409.54 from his current account to his credit card without his authorisation, 
which left a positive balance on his account. Mr M wants NatWest to refund him the 
outstanding credit card balance and £391.76.
 
NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it wasnt able to raise a chargeback for 
the amount of £391.76 as Mr M hadnt provided any evidence that he hadnt used or been 
provided with insurance when he hired a car. And the transaction had been authorised using 
Mr Ms Chip and PIN. The chargeback for £1,397.54 was successful and was refunded to 
Mr Ms account. NatWest explained that the transfer of £1,409.54 from Mr Ms current 
account had occurred because Mr M had a direct debit set up to pay the full balance of his 
credit card. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. The investigator thought NatWests decision to 
decline Mr Ms chargeback was reasonable. She also ooked at the technical records 
provided by the bank and was satisfied that Mr M had set up a direct debit mandate to pay 
his credit card balance from his current account in full each month.
 
The investigator said following the successful chargeback, £1,397.54 was credited back to 
Mr Ms account on 14 February 2019, and as this was applied to the account after the 
monthly auto pay amount had been calculated, it hadnt reduced the direct debit amount due 
from Mr Ms current account. So, she said the bank hadnt done anything wrong when 
£1,409.54 was debited from Mr Ms current account to pay off his credit card.
Mr M disagreed, he said hed never been provided with insurance by the hire company, 
NatWest promised it would refund the £391.76 and hes never set up a direct debit mandate 
to pay off his credit card each month. He also said he was left with a positive balance on his 
credit card and he wants a cheque for what hes owed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Mr M and NatWest have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr 
M that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. Having done so Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. It is a process by which card payment 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. When a customer raises a 
chargeback claim the card issuer will raise a dispute if there is a realistic prospect of 
success. The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme. And NatWest is 
required to abide by these rules when it processes chargeback claims.
I understand Mr M feels the charges he incurred for insurance when he hired a car werent 
genuine. He says NatWest told him it would refund the money to him, and he cant prove he 
wasnt provided with insurance, so he cant understand why the bank wont refund him 
£391.76. And the bank didnt pursue a chargeback.
 
Mr M has referred to an email the bank sent to him on 12 February 2019, which told him the 
bank would temporarily refund £391.76 to his account. So, I can understand why Mr M may 
have been under the impression that he would be getting his money back. But the letter also 
explained that the payment could be reversed and that the bank may need more information 
from him. 
NatWest has provided evidence that the transaction Mr M disputed was authorised by Chip 
and PIN. Mr M also hasnt disputed authorising the payment. And Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr M gave the bank any information to show he hadnt been provided with insurance  
in other words that he hadnt got what hed paid for. So, I dont find it unreasonable that 
without any evidence to the contrary, NatWest didnt consider it could raise a chargeback. 
But even if NatWest had raised a chargeback for Mr M, I dont think it wouldve made any 
difference to the outcome here.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think its very likely that NatWests chargeback 
attempt would have gone unchallenged. I say this because having looked at Mr Ms car hire 
agreement I can see that insurance was included in the rental. So, I think on balance, the 
merchant would have more likely than not produced the same evidence. And at that point I 
think its likely NatWest wouldnt have proceeded with the chargeback. So, I think the overall 
outcome is the same. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I havent been persuaded that 
NatWest has made an error or treated him unfairly by not pursuing his chargeback. And 
deciding not to refund Mr M £391.76.
In certain circumstances it is possible its possible for a claim to be raised under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act when there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. Unfortunately, in this case Mr M hasnt been able to provide evidence to show that 
this happened. Mr M has also complained that NatWest transferred money from his current account onto his 
credit card without his authorisation. Im afraid theres not much I can usefully add to what 
the investigator has already explained to Mr M about this. NatWest has provided evidence to 
show that Mr M had set up a direct debit to pay his credit card balance in full each month. 
So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong here  it was following Mr Ms instructions. 
I can also see that on Mr Ms credit card statements (including February 2019) it clearly 
states that the full balance would be taken from the nominated account, unless there wasnt 
an outstanding balance, or the account was in credit. So, I think its likely Mr M wouldve 
been aware of the arrangement which was in place to pay his credit card each month.
Mr M has said he hasnt been able to transfer the positive balance on his credit card (from 
the successful chargeback) back into his current account. And this led to his current account 
exceeding his overdraft limit, which at the time was £7,500. But from looking at Mr Ms 
statement I cant see that this was the case. When the direct debit left his account on 18 
February 2019, his account was just over £4,600 in credit. 
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded NatWest has done anything 
wrong when it decided not to pursue Mr Ms chargeback claim and transferred money from 
Mr Ms current account to clear his credit card balance. So, Im not going to ask the bank to 
do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman