DRN-3600243
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua gave him a credit card when it should 
have known he wouldnt be able to repay what he borrowed.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card in December 2018. He told NewDay that he was employed 
and earning £27,000 a year. The card was approved with an initial limit of £1200. That limit 
was increased to £2,400 in August 2018, to £3150 in April 2019, to £4150 in October 2020, 
to £5150 in January 2021, to £6150 in May 2021 and to £7650 in September 2021. Mr H 
said that he should not have been approved for the card in the first place as he had a 
gambling addiction and was using the card to fund further gambling.
NewDay said it had done appropriate checks when it agreed the initial lending to Mr H and 
when it increased his credit limit. It said that at the point of account opening Mr H had £1065 
outstanding in short term lending, 5 historic county court judgements and 8 historic defaults. 
His open accounts were up to date and there was nothing to suggest that Mr H was 
gambling. It said that based on its lending criteria it was reasonable to lend. Following Mr Hs 
complaint NewDay agreed to refund all interest and charges incurred on the account after 
the credit limit increase to £5150 in January 2021. 
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld and that Mr H should not have 
been given the initial limit of £1200. They thought that the amount of historic CCJs and 
defaulted accounts were significant. They thought this demonstrated that Mr H had been in 
difficulties repaying credit and managing his finances responsibly in the past and was likely 
to do so in the future. 
NewDay didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it was a second chance lender 
and the defaults and judgements were historic. It said that Mr H successfully repaid his 
minimum repayments and did not fall into arrears. It said that Mr H continued to use his card 
which is why his balance did not decrease and it was never made aware that he had a 
gambling issue. It said that Mr Hs circumstances have now changed and he is no longer 
working which could not have been foreseen at the time of the credit.
As the parties havent been able to agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When Mr H applied for the credit card, he told NewDay that he was employed and earning 
£27,000 a year and was a homeowner. NewDay undertook checks of Mr Hs credit file.  
When NewDay looked at Mr Hs credit file in December 2017 it recorded that he had 8 
defaulted accounts and 5 adverse public records or CCJs. The most recent CCJ was 25 
months ago and the last default was 42 months ago. Mr H also had an outstanding short-
term loan with a balance of £1065. NewDay considered that Mr H was not over committed 
with his borrowing and there were no accounts in arrears. 
Looking at the CCJs, NewDay were aware that the total of the 5 that were recorded was 
£5,500. Further, it noted that Mr H had previously defaulted on 8 accounts which totalled 
£7,600. I agree with the investigator the combined total of over £13,000 together with the 
number of defaulted accounts was indicative that Mr H had been in serious difficulties 
managing credit.
I have taken on board what NewDay says about being a second chance lender. However, I 
dont think its checks were enough to enable it to conclude that Mr Hs difficulties had 
passed. The amount and scale of Mr Hs judgments and defaults were indicative of a failure 
to responsibly manage credit. Although around 2 years had passed since the last judgement 
Mr H had a short-term loan balance of £1065 which would suggest that despite his low 
indebtedness, he was still struggling to make ends meet.
So, I think that NewDay should have realised that there was cause for concern about Mr Hs 
financial position and it should have investigated his finances more closely before offering a 
limit of £1200. I think that if it had investigated more closely NewDay would have discovered 
that Mr H was gambling and wasnt in a position to take on this borrowing.
It follows, that I think the additional credit offered to Mr H should not have been granted. I 
have taken into account that Mr H made his repayments but I dont think that suggests that 
the lending was responsible. Mr H continued to utilise the credit limits offered and made no 
significant progress in reducing his indebtedness.
For these reasons I think this complaint should be upheld and in addition to the steps 
already agreed by NewDay it should refund all interest and charges Mr H has paid on this 
lending.
Putting things right
Therefore, NewDay Ltd should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once Mr H has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Emma BoothroydOmbudsman