DRN-2317284
The complaint
Xs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) relates to changes made to his 
Barclaycard Cashback Credit Card account in 2017.
What happened
X originally held a Barclaycard Cashback Credit Card account which provided him with an 
American Express (AMEX) card and a Barclaycard Visa card, both of which had a cashback 
feature. Barclaycard ended its relationship with AMEX in 2017 and so were unable to offer 
the AMEX card to their customers. 
As a result, Barclaycard transferred X to the Barclaycard Cashback account in September 
2017. This account provided a Visa card with a cashback feature. X didnt want that  he 
wanted a Barclaycard Rewards Card, which he feels has many of the benefits of the Amex 
card.
X noted that his original AMEX card had an expiry date of January 2020, but the 
replacement Visa card had an expiry date of October 2020 and he was unhappy about that. 
He was also unhappy that his AMEX card shows the date that he first held a card with them 
to be 2020 and he wants that changing to 2014 being the year he first obtained the AMEX 
card with his Barclaycard Cashback Credit Card account.
Barclaycard responded to Xs complaint explaining the ending of its relationship with AMEX. 
It also explained that it had written to X in May 2017 setting out that his then existing 
cashback cards would be replaced with the Visa cashback, or that he could apply for a 
different Barclaycard or close his account. Barclaycard thought they had acted properly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
X was unhappy with Barclaycards final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclaycard hadnt 
done anything wrong as it had simply acted in accordance with its terms and conditions.
X didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key to this complaint is the terms and conditions governing Xs Barclaycard Cashback 
Credit Card account, because these will show whether Barclaycard were permitted to make 
the changes they did in 2017. Ive looked at those terms and conditions and they do allow 
Barclaycard to close an account and/or make changes provided appropriate notice is given. 
In this case such notice was given in May 2017 and I have seen evidence of the letter sent 
to X. That letter invited X to contact Barclaycard if the Visa cashback card wasnt right for 
him, but I cant see that there is any evidence that he did. He was thus issued the Visa 
cashback card.
So, I do find that a Barclaycard did follow their terms and conditions correctly in making 
changes to Xs account, and that it acted fairly in doing so.
I note X has repeatedly said he would like a Barclaycard Rewards card, and I note from the 
letter sent to him in May 2017 that Barclaycard invited him to contact them if he wanted 
another type of Barclaycard. What that letter didnt say was that Barclaycard would 
guarantee it would provide any replacement card X chose. It remains open to X to make an 
application for any card he wishes, although whether Barclaycard choose to provide him with 
the card of his choice is a matter for them to determine, no doubt in line with their lending 
criteria. So I dont find that Barclaycard have acted unfairly here either.
X has complained about the expiry date on his Visa card being some 9 months later than the 
previous expiry date. Barclaycard have explained the reason for that is because of the point 
in time the Visa cashback card was issued, which I think is a fair and reasonable 
explanation. 
X has also complained that the new AMEX card he obtained doesnt show the date he first 
held an AMEX card. I can understand why he would want that correcting, since he has 
explained his reasons, but that is not something which is within the control of Barclaycard, 
since AMEX is an entirely separate organisation. 
So, although X will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclaycard has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman