DRN-2827168
The complaint
Mr G says James Hay Administration Company Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership 
(JHP) delayed the inward transfer of his pension into his JHP Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). He seeks compensation for the loss in value between when the transfer 
should have been completed and when it was eventually completed. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and, in conclusion, found as follows:
Mr G instructed the transfer on 14 January 2020 and JHP received the instruction on 
17 January. He transferred the pension in cash. The transfer value (TV) was 
£78,311.82.
On 7 February JHP received the discharge form from the transferor firm and on 24 
February it requested the transfer  it had to repeat the request on 26 February 
because of an information discrepancy.
On 6 March the transferor firm confirmed completion of the transfer (to the value of 
£72,492.90) and on 16 March JHP gave Mr G notice that his funds were ready to be 
invested.
Mr G complained about the delay and JHP upheld his complaint, conceding that the 
delay was avoidable, that JHP was responsible for it and that its transfer request on 
24 February should have been done earlier (by 11 February).
Evidence shows that the TV on 11 February remained £78,311.82, so Mr G had lost 
£5,818.92 in TV by the time the delayed transfer was completed.
Mr G invested the funds he received. JHP acknowledges the loss in value caused by 
its delay and accepts that he should be compensated for that. It has approached the 
compensation by calculating how many units of each fund Mr G invested in would 
have been bought but for the delay and compared that to the units he actually 
invested in  in order to determine whether (or not) he could have bought more units, 
with the lost TV, had the transfer completed earlier. JHP calculated that if the transfer 
completed earlier, and allowing for a week thereafter before Mr G began his 
investments (to mirror the fact that he did not start the investments until a week after 
he received notice of completion), he would have invested on 6, 9, 10, 13 and 18 
March (to mirror the same gaps in the investments he made). The outcome of its 
calculation was that no financial loss was incurred because prices of the relevant 
funds units were higher on these dates than they were on the dates of his actual 
investments; so, even with the higher TV, he would have bought less units on these 
earlier dates than he was able to buy, with the lower TV, on the actual (and later) 
dates he invested.
JHPs approach is fair and is the same approach to redress that this service would 
apply, inclusive of the allowance of a week between what would have been the 
earlier transfer completion date and the earlier start of investments. JHP does not 
have to do anything further in this respect.  It has also offered Mr G £200 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him by the delay and that is a reasonable offer.
Mr G disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said given 
the facts that JHP concedes responsibility for the delay, the transfer was in cash, the loss in 
cash value caused by the delay has been accepted as £5,818.92 and how he chose to 
invest his cash was solely his decision, fair compensation should simply be payment of the 
cash TV shortfall; and neither JHP nor this service should, as part of determining redress, be 
making assumptions about his investment decisions and/or the timing of their execution.
The investigator spoke to Mr G and explained that the purpose of the redress approach 
taken by JHP, and consistent with this services approach in cases like his, is to determine 
whether (or not) the delay put his SIPP in a worse position  hence consideration of the 
delayed investments caused by the delayed transfer  and that the delay meant his later 
investments were made at cheaper prices than those that would have applied if he invested 
earlier, so he is better off (and not in a worse position). Mr G retained his disagreement and 
his request for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators and I broadly 
share his core reasoning.
As both parties appear to agree on JHPs liability for the transfer delay, on when the transfer 
should have been completed and on the TV that would have applied to the transfer but for 
the delay, the only issue to determine is redress. 
Nevertheless, and for the sake of completeness, I have considered the sequence of events 
in the transfer and I agree that the delay was avoidable and that JHP was responsible for it. I 
have not seen evidence to justify why, having received notice of the transfer instruction on 
17 January and then the discharge form on 7 February, it took JHP until 24 February to 
make its first transfer request. I also agree that it ought reasonably to have made this 
request by 11 February, which would have meant the TV of £78,311.82 applied  instead of 
the lesser TV amount of £72,492.90 that applied to the delayed transfer (and that Mr G 
subsequently received).
Mr G is correct in saying the transfer was in cash, and the cash shortfall caused by JHPs 
delay is the difference between the higher TV he could have received (without the delay) and 
the lower TV he received (because of the delay). That difference is the £5,818.92 amount 
that Mr G says he should receive in compensation.
The TV shortfall is not in dispute. However, it is a loss in TV. It is not a debt that is due for 
repayment, and I say this to illustrate a relevant point. If, for example, it was a debt owed by 
JHP to Mr G, fair redress could indeed be its repayment to him. Being a loss in TV, and in 
the context of a SIPP transfer, it is this services approach to determine whether (or not) 
such loss has left the SIPP in a worse position  and, if so, to compensate for that.
Mr G used an account with a third-party investment platform provider to invest the funds 
transferred into his JHP SIPP. There is account activity/statement evidence for this platform 
account at the time of the transfer and thereafter. Following notice of completion of the 
transfer (on 16 March) he moved £72,000 into the platform account on 18 March. The cash balance in the account prior to this was just under £300. On 24, 25, 26, 31 March, 3 April 
and 1 June Mr G made a succession of investments; he sold a holding on 2 June; then he 
resumed investments on 8 June and continued them on 9, 16 and 23 June and on 1 July; 
and the closing cash balance on 1 July was around £14,700. 
After deduction of the balance (around £300) before the SIPP funds were deposited in the 
platform account, it appears that a total of around £57,600 of the SIPP funds was actively 
invested by Mr G from around a week after the transfer completed and, initially, within the 
same month of completion and then up to 1 July. Out of the deposited SIPP funds, the 
remainder/unused cash on 1 July was around £14,400. In other words, between 24 March 
and 1 July Mr G had invested around 80% of the transferred SIPP cash, and the account 
activity statement shows that within a fortnight of receiving that cash (and depositing it in the 
platform account) he invested over half of it.
The sole discretion Mr G had to make his own investment decisions is not in question and I 
do not consider that the investigator sought to breach that discretion. I too do not seek to 
breach that discretion. However, it is necessary to consider how, if at all, the loss in TV 
affected his SIPP. I accept that it was transferred in cash, but clearly the cash was quickly 
placed into investments  over half of it within a fortnight and then a total of around 80% of it 
by 1 July. This is a fair basis to conclude that, despite being a cash transfer, the cash was 
destined for investments, and this prompts consideration of how the loss in TV affected 
(negatively or positively) those investments.
 
Such consideration cannot fairly be applied to the same dates on which Mr G made his 
investments, because the premise is that the lost TV arose only because of the delay, so it 
would not have happened if the transfer completed earlier. It follows from this that Mr G 
would then have started his investments earlier and with the use of the higher TV. This is the 
rationale behind determining earlier dates for the investments he made. That determination 
can also reasonably be based on reflecting the same timings between his actual investments 
 that is, the week after receipt of the transfer and before commencement of his investments 
and then the time periods between the investments in the relevant fortnight.
I have considered JHPs explanation of its calculation, and the calculation itself. Based on its 
acceptance that it should have made its transfer request on 11 February  on the basis of 
which the higher TV would have been applicable  it says the transfer would probably then 
have been released by 20 February and would have been available to Mr G by 25 February. 
Of course, this cannot be a precise formulation because these events are not factual but, 
instead, are estimations of what would have happened without the delay. I am satisfied that, 
on balance, they are reasonable estimations. They amount to a fortnight between the 
transfer request and availability (to Mr G) of the transferred funds. The actual period was 
longer, the transferred funds were available to Mr G on 16 March, which was over two weeks 
after JHPs revised transfer request of 26 February. 
JHP has then calculated that as Mr G took a week after 16 March to start investing, the 
same should apply within the estimations, and that the timings of his investments in the 
fortnight that followed should also be reflected in the estimations. The result is the 
hypothesis that, but for the delay, Mr G would have started his fortnights worth of 
investments  the same investments (and sizes) he made in reality during the comparable 
fortnight time period  from 6 March and would have ended them on 18 March.
I have considered evidence of the prices and calculations used in the above exercise and 
the comparisons that were then applied to the actual investments Mr G made. I am satisfied 
that the exercise reliably shows that, with the higher TV and with an earlier start to his 
investments, Mr G would have paid a total of around £7,700 more than he paid, in reality, for the same investments (and sizes); and he would have used around 60% of the higher TV in 
doing so.
I understand Mr Gs objection to the above exercise (and the hypothesis it is based on) 
being given credibility and I understand his perception that his sole discretion to make 
investment decisions is breached by the exercise. However, whilst they are his perceptions, I 
do not consider that either is the case. 
As explained above, there is evidence that his transferred cash was destined for 
investments; there is evidence of what those investments were at the actual times they were 
made, which can reasonably be used to determine that the same investments (and sizes) 
would have been made if the transfer completed earlier; and there is a need determine how 
(negatively or positively) the lost TV affected those investments. The above exercise 
engages in addressing this, and it shows that the lost TV of £5,818.92 which was caused by 
JHPs delay was outweighed by the total investment costs savings of around £7,700 that 
happened because of the same delay. In other words, whilst the delay was JHPs 
wrongdoing, it nevertheless had a positive net effect (to the net value of almost £2,000) on 
Mr Gs investments, so there is no basis for a compensation payment.
I do not suggest that it can be said with certainty that Mr G would have made exactly the 
same investments (and sizes) earlier, but for the delay. That is impossible to say. However, 
on the balance of available evidence, it is reasonable to say that he probably would have, 
hence the credibility of the above exercise.
I agree with JHPs offer to Mr G of £200 for the trouble and upset the delay caused him. It is 
a reasonable amount, given the facts of the case, and it is broadly consistent with the trouble 
and upset awards this service has made in comparable cases. I do not consider that it 
should offer more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Gs claim for payment of the TV shortfall 
amount, and I consider he has already been offered fair compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman