DRN-4184404
The complaint
Mrs I complains that the caravan she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Paragon Bank Plc trading as Paragon Motor Finance isnt fit for purpose. She wants to reject 
the caravan.
What happened
Mrs I entered into a hire purchase agreement in April 2022 to acquire a new caravan. The 
agreement term was 10 years, and Mrs I was required to make monthly repayments of 
around £275. Mrs I says that the caravan leaks and that she has tried to get the dealer to 
repair it but it says it cant find the leak. Mrs I says that the caravan has been with the dealer 
since February 2023 and when she raised her complaint with Paragon it said it wouldnt 
issue a final response until the caravan had been collected and returned to Mrs Is home. 
Mrs I says the caravan is over 400 miles from where she lives and not fit for purpose so she 
doesnt want to collect it.
Following Mrs I raising her complaint with this service, Paragon issued a final response 
letter. It said that Mrs I contacted it on 27 February 2023 to say the caravan had a water leak 
and had been with the dealer for two weeks, but it was unable to find where the leak was 
coming from. Paragon contacted the dealer and was told it was waiting for a date from the 
manufacturer for the caravan to go for repair. It said it spoke with Mrs I and she confirmed 
that the manufacturer had been in contact about repairs but she wasnt happy with the 
timing. Paragon noted the delay but said the caravan needed to go to the manufacturer as 
the dealer hadnt been able to find the leak. 
Paragon said the water ingress was first reported in December 2022 which was more than 
six months after Mrs I took delivery of the caravan and so the onus was on her to evidence 
the fault and that it was present or developing at supply. It said the photographs provided 
werent enough to do this but the dealer had agreed to inspect the issue and repair this 
under the manufacturers warranty. It said that Mrs I asked for an independent inspection to 
take place and the dealer said this could happen and Paragon said this would be at Mrs Is 
cost. It didnt accept that Mrs I could reject the caravan and found the dealer had tried to 
assist Mrs I with the issues she had reported. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint, but he didnt think that Mrs I should be allowed to 
reject the caravan. He noted the issues raised within the first five months of having the 
caravan and said while these were minor given the caravan was new at acquisition it should 
have been free from defects, including minor defects. Because of this he said the caravan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply and noted that these issues were repaired. 
Our investigator said the main issue was with the water ingress but said there wasnt enough 
evidence to say this was due to a fault that was or still is present with the caravan. He noted 
the dealer had stress tested the caravan and wasnt able to find a leak. Given this he didnt 
find he could ask Paragon to do anything further in regard to this and said that if a leak was 
proven then Mrs I might have a stronger case for rejection but at this stage he didnt think 
she had the right to this. 
Overall, our investigator thought that the repair was a reasonable remedy to the minor issues 
that Mrs I had raised but also thought that Mrs I should be refunded her rental payments 
from 10 February 2023 to 3 April 2023 (being when the caravan went to the dealer until 
when it asked Mrs I to collect it) and be paid £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by these issues. 
Mrs I didnt accept our investigators view. She said there was no evidence to show there 
wasnt a leak and no evidence of the test carried out to check for this. She said she should 
have been invited to an inspection of the caravan, but the dealer wanted to keep her away. 
She said the evidence she has provided shows the water ingress and said this had 
happened on two occasions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I acquired a new caravan through a hire purchase agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Paragon can be held liable if the caravan wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors 
such as the age and use of the caravan as well as the price paid. In this case Mrs I acquired 
a new caravan and so it is reasonable that she would expect it to be free from faults, 
including minor defects.
Mrs I acquired the caravan in April 2022. In September 2022, she contacted the dealer about 
some minor issues, and it was agreed these could be addressed at the next service. Further 
details were provided in October 2022 listing the bathroom mirror as cracked, a missing blind 
clip and the silicon seal around the toilet needing resealing. While these were minor issues, 
as the caravan was new when it was supplied it should have been fault free and this 
includes being free from minor defects. As these issues were raised within six months of 
Mrs I acquiring the caravan, I do not find that the caravan was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
When a caravan is identified as not being of satisfactory quality at supply and the issues are 
raised after the first 30 days, the business is usually allowed an opportunity to carry out a 
repair. In this case it was agreed the repairs would be undertaken with the caravans next 
service in February 2023. As this was convenient for Mrs I, she accepted the offer of repair, 
and I have nothing to suggest these repairs werent successful I find this a reasonable 
remedy to these issues. 
Mrs I raised further issues on 29 December 2022, these were that the fridge cabinet had 
moved and required adjustments, the kitchen cupboard doors required adjustment and there 
was water damage to a base seat cushion and fabric covered panel. As these issues were 
raised after Mrs I had been in possession of the caravan for six months, the onus was on her 
to evidence these issues and show they were due to faults present or developing at the point 
of supply. That said, it was agreed that the repairs would be carried out at the next service. 
As this happened, I find this a reasonable remedy.
The outstanding issue is regarding Mrs Is concerns about a leak. Given when the issue was 
raised, Mrs I was required to provide evidence of a fault. While I note the photographs 
provided, I do not find this alone is enough to conclude that there was a fault with the 
caravan that was present or developing at the point of supply. 
Mrs Is caravan was still under warranty and the dealer said that it would look into the water 
ingress. It said it carried out intermittent tests and investigation and wasnt able to find a leak. I note Mrs Is comment about not having evidence of the tests carried out, but I find it 
reasonable to accept these happened. As tests werent able to replicate the issue, I find it 
reasonable that the dealer said the caravan could be returned to the manufacturer for 
assessment and repair. I note Mrs Is comment about this and that her contact details were 
passed to the manufacturer and that the timing offered meant she would miss further 
planned trips in the caravan. But given she had a manufacturer warranty, and the dealer 
hadnt been able to replicate the faults and so wasnt able to undertake repairs, I find this 
was a reasonable suggestion for next steps. 
Mrs I asked about an independent inspection taking place. It was agreed this could happen 
at the dealers but that if Mrs I wanted to be present she would need to collect the caravan 
and have it inspected at her property. I understand Mrs Is concerns about the impartiality of 
the inspection but she could have chosen the inspecting company and provided details of 
what she wanted inspected and so I find she was provided with a reasonable opportunity for 
further checks to take place. Had these identified faults present or developing at supply this 
could have affected the outcome of this complaint.
But, based on the information I have, I do not find I have enough to say that there is an 
ongoing fault with the caravan regarding the water ingress that was present or developing at 
supply. As the other issues that were raised have been resolved I do not find I have enough 
evidence to say that Paragon is required to cover the cost of any further work.
I have considered the inconvenience and upset Mrs I was caused by the caravan 
experiencing issues shortly after acquisition and while these were repaired at a time 
convenient for Mrs I this still meant she was without the caravan for a period of time. 
Therefore, I agree with our investigators recommendation of a refund of rentals from 10 
February to 3 April 2023. I note Mrs Is comment that she couldnt use the caravan from 29 
December when she reported the leak and water damage but as it was her decision to have 
the repairs undertaken in February, I think it reasonable this is the date from which the 
refund should apply. On 3 April 2023, Paragon emailed Mrs I confirming the dealer hadnt 
been able to replicate the leak and that Mrs I had not agreed to the caravan being sent to the 
manufacturer. By this time the other repairs had been completed. Therefore, I find this a 
reasonable date to end the refund period. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs I be paid £200 for the distress an inconvenience 
being provided with a caravan that wasnt of satisfactory quality had caused. I understand 
she doesnt feel this is enough. But I have to consider that the issues meaning the caravan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality were relatively minor and were repaired at a time requested by 
Mrs I, therefore in this case I find the £200 recommended is reasonable.
Finally, I appreciate the point Mrs I has made about the support network for repairs and not 
being able to use her local dealer. As this complaint is about Paragon I cannot hold it 
responsible for the approach taken by the dealer in regard to allowing repairs at other 
locations and without evidence to show that this issue was misrepresented to Mrs I and she 
was told she could rely on a local dealer when this wasnt true, I do not find I have enough to 
be able to say this issue means the caravan was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
Paragon Bank Plc trading as Paragon Motor Finance should:
pay a refund of rentals from 10 February 2023 to 3 April 2023 to cover any loss of 
use, or impaired use, of the car because of the inherent quality issues;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the date of settlement; and
pay a further amount of £200 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Paragon to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that Paragon Bank Plc trading as Paragon Motor Finance should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman