DRN-1340775
 
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs K have complained about their Halifax-branded Bank of Scotland plc 
mortgage. Theyre unhappy that:
the mortgage is split into two sub-accounts,
this may have led to them paying extra interest, and
the arrangement fee was added to the mortgage and has incurred interest.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
We cant consider a complaint about how and why the two sub-accounts came about 
as its not within our jurisdiction to do so. Thats because its been clear to Mr E and 
Mrs K that their mortgage has been set up that way since 2013 when Halifax started 
to issue mortgage statements setting out the mortgage in that level of detail. This 
means theyve brought their complaint about having two sub-accounts too late under 
our rules.
The two sub-accounts have the same interest rate, so Mr E and Mrs K havent been 
left financially worse off due to the mortgage being split in the way it is. The interest 
charged is the same as it would have been if the entire balance was held in just one 
sub-account instead.
Mr E and Mrs Ks complaint about the mortgage arrangement fee being added to the 
mortgage would need to be made to the mortgage broker that gave the advice about 
the mortgage if they feel they werent advised correctly. Halifax simply set up the 
mortgage in the way it was requested, which included having the fee added. So, I 
cant uphold a complaint against Halifax about the fee being added and interest being 
incurred on it.
The contact details for the broker Mr E and Mrs K used can be found on page 7 of their 
mortgage offer, or on page 6 of their mortgage illustration.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman