DRN-3845820
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled a claim she made in 
relation to a purchase on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs S bought tickets for a show in June 2019 through a ticket booking agency (the 
supplier). The show took place on 7 Dec 2019. However, Mrs S is unhappy with the view 
and says it was obstructed. In summary, she says the tickets were misrepresented and 
should have been advertised as restricted view.
Mrs S was unable to get a refund from the supplier or the theatre. So she made a claim to 
Barclays under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). It did not uphold 
the claim. Mrs S was unhappy with this response  and also the way Barclays had handled 
the claim. So she made a complaint which was referred to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he was not persuaded that the 
tickets should have been marked as restricted. So he didnt think that Barclays were 
responsible for any claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier via 
Section 75.
Mrs S disagrees with the outcome and has asked for the complaint to be passed to me for a 
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, can I say that I am sorry to hear Mrs S and her group were unhappy with the tickets. 
However, it is worth noting that Barclays are not the supplier of the service here, so any 
liability it has for what took place is subject to the specific card protections available. In this 
case these are Chargeback and Section 75. With that in mind I have gone on to consider the 
complaint against Barclays.
Before I go into things in more detail I just want to say I am aware Mrs S has raised some 
concerns around data handling and freedom of information. These issues are not part of this 
complaint so I will not be dealing with them here.
Section 75 does not apply
I will start with Section 75 as it has been the focus of this complaint to date. It allows a 
consumer who has purchased goods or services on their credit card to bring a like claim 
against the provider of credit for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
paid for using the credit. However, for it to apply Section 75 is subject to specific criteria as 
laid out in the legislation. 
Section 75 will only apply where a claim relates to any single item with a cash price 
exceeding £100 (and not more than £30,000). The cash price of the single item is relevant 
here  not the total Mrs S paid on her card or any extra fees such as processing and 
postage charges. In this case Mrs S purchased individual tickets each separately priced at a 
face value under £100. Therefore Section 75 does not apply here. Although it is worth noting 
that even if it did apply my conclusions would be unlikely to differ from those below.
Section 56 
There is another part of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that might apply here particularly as 
Mrs S has sent in information which confirms she made the booking. This is Section 56 and 
what it means is that Barclays could be held responsible for a misrepresentation made to 
Mrs S by the supplier (prior to her paying for the tickets).
Therefore, I have considered what Mrs S has said and provided about the tickets and her 
central claim that the supplier is culpable of misrepresentation because it did not label these 
as restricted view seats. 
I believe what Mrs S has demonstrated is her strong opinion that the view was not 
satisfactory and should have been labelled a certain way. And she is entitled to this. But she 
has not provided persuasive evidence that shows the supplier marketed the tickets in a 
factually incorrect way. 
I note the theatre and the producers have confirmed the seats the tickets relate to were not 
classified as restricted view for the show nor to their knowledge had those seats ever been 
classified as restricted. There is no persuasive information that shows these tickets were 
classified as restricted view and the supplier went on to falsely sell these without said 
description. For the sake of completeness I dont think the offer by the theatre of a 
complimentary show convinces me that the tickets were incorrectly marketed either. It 
appears this was an offer of goodwill rather than anything else.
I also note that Mrs S has sent in photos of the view against the suppliers information about 
what restricted view seats are  but to me this is not compelling evidence that these tickets 
were misrepresented. In fact the view of the stage (while not dead centre) looks 
unobstructed and like a normal theatre seat to me. I think this shows how ultimately this 
comes down to opinion rather than a false representation of fact. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way that Barclays might have been able to raise a dispute. Chargeback is 
limited by the particular scheme rules that apply and is not a guaranteed way to get money 
back. 
It appears that Barclays did not raise a chargeback here, although that is unclear. In any 
event, I dont think it would have likely succeeded in any event. I will explain why.
I have considered the particular card scheme rules that apply to the card Mrs S bought the 
tickets with. And I note that the general time limit it provides for raising a claim is 120 
calendar days from the transaction processing date. Some of the rules (such as the one 
relating to services not being as described or defective) specify 120 days from the date the 
cardholder receives the service. So when Mrs S raised her claim with Barclays on 6 April 
2020 she was already out of time under the chargeback rules and any chargeback would 
have failed.Even if Mrs S were not out of time I would also be unable to fairly conclude that her claim 
would likely have succeeded based on there being no admission of liability from the supplier 
or persuasive evidence that Mrs S did not receive the tickets she booked.
All things considered, with what I have already stated in mind, I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable to say Barclays is responsible for paying a refund of the tickets to Mrs S.
Customer service concerns
Mrs S says Barclays did not handle the claim well  in particular that it gave her a temporary 
credit without explaining things fully then decided to claim it back six months later. Mrs S 
says this led her to believe her dispute with Barclays was over.
I have looked at the way the claim was handled. I can see that despite the initial claim in 
April 2020 it took until August 2020 for Barclays to respond in full. This was not ideal but I do 
have to take into account the circumstances around the pandemic which would have 
disrupted processes for Barclays.
However, I can then see that when Mrs S disputed the outcome of the claim response 
Barclays added a credit on the account then took around 6 months to respond to the appeal. 
This was not great customer service. I also think that while Mrs S had no reasonable cause 
to think the temporary credit meant she had won the dispute (her statement says it is a 
temporary credit and all correspondence up to then indicated Barclays disagreed with her) 
the lack of communication and time it took to re-debit is not ideal and would likely have 
caused a reasonable degree of frustration and annoyance
So while I think there were aspects around the pandemic that impacted Barclays through no 
fault of its own  I do think it still could have done better here with the way it handled the 
matter. So I think Mrs S should be awarded some compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I have thought about the sort of level of compensation due here and I 
think £100 is a reasonable sum.
My provisional decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs S £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in handling her claim.
Barclays responded to say it did not necessarily agree with my reasons for awarding £100 
compensation. However, it would be willing to pay this to resolve the issue.
Mrs S did not agree with the decision. In summary, she responded to say:
the provisional decision is flawed as it is based on contradictory evidence and there 
is no evidence that contradicts her own evidence despite many months of 
investigation  
more investigation is needed (for example, contacting the ticketing agent, theatre and 
production company) before an unbiased decision can be reached
the ticketing agent website showed the seats to have an unrestricted view but this 
was not the case  the website says that tickets should be marked regarding a 
restricted/obstructed view but there was no information regarding this so it broke the 
terms and conditions of salethe term I am looking for regarding the miss [sic] sold tickets is Silent Mis-
representation when the seller is fully aware the item sold is not fit for purpose but 
withholds this information from the purchaser  causing a wasted trip to a 
performance they could not see
the photo she provided showing the view from their seats has the curtains closed and 
does not truly reflect how restricted the view is - The point you are missing or 
choosing to over-look is that the area you view in front of the curtains is not the actual 
performance stage
she does not agree the purchase is outside the cash limits for a Section 75 claim as it 
is not possible to buy tickets without paying the additional charges and this wasnt a 
finding made by other parties
she was outside the time to raise a chargeback but did her due diligence and was 
also impacted by the pandemic  yet she has not been afforded additional leeway 
like Barclays for taking some time to reply to her concerns
there is no factual evidence to support my view regarding the seats  only a reliance 
on my own personal view
there was no letter sent to indicate the credit was a temporary one and at the time 
she believed the matter had been resolved  and the wording on the statement would 
not have clearly shown the credit was temporary
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response Mrs S has made some additional comments about the decision-making 
process. She has indicated on the one hand that my review is not independent as it comes 
to similar conclusions to others but has also questioned why in places it appears to have 
departed from the findings of others.  I want to make it clear that my review is independent 
from our investigator and other parties  I have looked at the evidence afresh to impartially 
decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances here. 
Furthermore, my conclusions regarding the alleged misrepresentation are based on careful 
consideration of the evidence provided.   
Mrs S has again mentioned her complaint about data handling. This is not something that 
formed part of her original complaint so I will not be dealing with it here.
I acknowledge how invested Mrs S is in this matter and her strength of feeling about the 
case but I dont consider that I need to do more research or task Barclays to provide further 
evidence. I note the parties have also had a reasonable opportunity to provide information 
which I have read and considered. It is now for me, in my role as an ombudsman to make a 
final decision on the matter  which Mrs S does not have to accept if she chooses.
I think Mrs S has largely repeated information I have already read and considered. It does 
not change my provisional findings (as set out above) which I still consider fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I do not wish to indicate discourtesy by not addressing 
everything in the level of detail Mrs S has done. I have also focused on matters I consider to 
be relevant here and where matters are unclear I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.Mrs S has said my finding that Section 75 does not apply is incorrect because in order to buy 
tickets you also have to pay additional charges. I do not agree that my interpretation is 
incorrect and have carefully considered the matter. Section 75 refers to the cash price the 
supplier attaches to a single item  in this case I consider the most logical interpretation is 
that a single item is each ticket which is priced and available to purchase separately (in fact 
this is illustrated by the fact that Mrs S did not buy all the tickets together).
Each single ticket is individually priced with a face value of £85. I note there is a service 
charge applied to each ticket of £14.25 (£85+£14.25=£99.25) but even if I were to accept the 
argument that the service charge forms part of the total item price  each ticket is still under 
the cash limits required for a valid Section 75 claim. I note there is a £3.95 fixed charge 
applied to the overall booking by the ticket agent for delivery and transaction fee but 
(whether mandatory or not) this is a separate fixed charge for other services and does not 
form part of the cash price of any single item here.  
So ultimately, because of the legal requirements set out by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 I 
am satisfied that Section 75 does not apply. But as I have already said  even if I were to 
conclude that Section 75 did apply here I dont think it makes a difference to my findings 
regarding the alleged misrepresentation.
Mrs S has indicated that I should be contacting the ticket agent (the supplier) and the 
theatre/producers to get more information. But there are already emails from the theatre and 
the production company on file (which Mrs S herself provided) stating that the seats were not 
classified as restricted for the performance (or apparently any other performance). I referred 
to this in my provisional decision and it is persuasive factual evidence in showing the 
supplier was not required to advertise the tickets as restricted view.  So the absence of this 
marking on the tickets or advertising for the tickets is not a misrepresentation (by omission or 
otherwise). Nor for the sake of completeness do I think the supplier has contravened its own 
terms by advertising the tickets in this way. I dont think further information from the supplier 
will alter this finding either  as its own information (as Mrs S has referred to) appears to 
reinforce that the seats were not classified as restricted.
Mrs S has placed emphasis on what she sees as my reliance on a photo she sent in that 
shows a view from her seats on performance day and she says does not tell the whole story. 
I want to be clear that I have not simply relied on this photo as a basis for my finding. I refer 
Mrs S back to my findings above regarding the persuasive information from the theatre and 
the production company. However, I have referred to the photo as part of the information 
Mrs S has asked this service to consider. And in doing so my view is that the picture is not a 
compelling piece of evidence in support of Mrs Ss allegations that these tickets were in fact 
restricted view and the supplier went on to falsely sell these without said description. 
Furthermore, in light of the overall evidence here  including what the theatre and production 
company has stated I dont think that Mrs Ss drawings of viewing angles, other photos or 
testimony regarding the different parts of the stage is persuasive in showing, on balance, 
that the tickets were misrepresented by the supplier. Nor, is there any persuasive evidence 
to support her allegations that the supplier knowingly withheld information to sell her tickets 
that were not fit for purpose.
I note the comments Mrs S has made about why she was out of time to raise a chargeback. 
But Barclays are not able to change the timeframes as laid down in the chargeback scheme 
rules so I dont think it needed to act differently here. As I have already said in my provisional 
decision  I also consider it unlikely that the chargeback would have succeeded in any 
event.  
Mrs S has also indicated that when she received the temporary credit she thought she had won the dispute and that TEMPCR on the statement didnt clearly indicate the credit was 
temporary. However, considering the circumstances here (and noting the correspondence 
leading up to the credit) I dont agree that it would have been reasonable for Mrs S to 
assume that she had won the dispute. As I have said already I do acknowledge the 
frustration caused by the customer service issues  and consider £100 to be a reasonable 
amount of compensation to reflect this. 
In conclusion, and for the reasons given here (including my provisional findings as 
incorporated above) I dont consider that Barclays is fairly liable for refunding the price of 
tickets to Mrs S here. However, I do think it should pay her compensation for customer 
service issues if she accepts my decision.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs S the compensation as directed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs S £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in handling her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman