DRN-4211821
The complaint
Ms B says Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly closed her accounts.
What happened
Ms B held accounts with Barclays which had been inactive for some time. At the end of 
November 2022 Barclays informed Ms B that it would be closing three accounts she held, 
and to get in touch if Ms B wanted the accounts to remain open. 
Barclays didnt hear from Ms B so all three accounts were closed. Ms B contacted Barclays 
about its decision to close the accounts and was informed she would need to use its reclaim 
process to access the funds within the accounts. Ms B complained to Barclays, explaining 
she never received the closure notifications. Ms B explained she has been a long-standing 
customer, and her accounts should be reopened. 
Barclays explained it had closed Ms Bs accounts in line with the account terms and 
conditions and that the reclaim process would need to be followed by Ms B, and this 
included the ID and verification requirements. Unhappy with Barclays handling of her 
concerns, Ms B referred her complaint to our service.
Ms B reiterated her concerns to the Investigator and explained that the reclaim process is 
unfair as it takes up to three months for the funds to be released and she would need to 
make a trip to the UK. Ms B feels Barclays should factor in her circumstances and consider 
transferring the funds to another account or reopening the accounts. An Investigator 
reviewed the complaint and found that Barclays had acted reasonably in the circumstances, 
and the reclaim requirements were fair.
Ms B remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the closure of Ms Bs accounts will be inconvenient for Ms B, especially as she says 
she isnt a full time UK resident. I also appreciate the requirements Barclays has set out for 
Ms B to reclaim the funds from her accounts requires time and additional effort on Ms Bs 
part. However, based on all the available evidence Im satisfied Barclays hasnt acted 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Account closure
When considering the closure of an account the starting point is the terms and conditions of 
the account. In Ms Bs case the terms of her accounts explain:
If you havent used your account for a long time, we may close it. Well give you two months
written notice if we plan to do this and explain to you what you can do to keep it open. If 
theres any money in the account, well tell you how to reclaim it.
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it issued to Ms B. These letters clearly set out the 
accounts would close due to inactivity and each one provided Ms B with the necessary two-
month notice period. The letters also set out clearly the steps Ms B can take if she wished 
for the accounts to remain open. 
Ms B says she didnt receive these letters, and this is unfortunate. However, as Ms B had 
asked NatWest to correspond with her online, these letters were not posted to Ms B. It 
therefore wouldve been for Ms B to review these letters online. I understand Ms Bs 
frustrations around this, but I am satisfied Barclays acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions and took reasonable steps to inform Ms B of the impending closures. 
I understand Ms B feels her long-standing relationship with Barclays hasnt been taken into 
consideration, and she is disappointed with Barclays decision to strictly adhere to its internal 
policy. Ms B feels it should show more understanding of her situation and reopen the 
accounts. However, I must highlight Barclays isnt under any obligation to depart from its 
standard approach to inactive accounts due to a customer being long standing. And I 
wouldnt expect it to reopen Ms Bs accounts given it provided her with the necessary notice. 
I am satisfied in its dealings with Ms B it has been clear and provided the necessary 
information. So, I dont think it has treated her unfairly in closing the accounts.
Reclaim process
Its not in dispute that Ms Bs accounts were not used for a significant period of time. 
However, they still contained funds which Ms B now wishes to access. Ms B says Barclays 
should transfer the funds to another account without her having to go through the reclaim 
process. I understand Ms Bs frustration with the steps she has to go through to reclaim the 
funds, but I think Barclays requirements are reasonable. It is also important to highlight the 
requirements are necessary for Barclays to adhere to its legal and regulatory obligations.
Barclays has provided its internal guidance for inactive accounts. This specifies that if there 
is no customer contact within the notice period the accounts will be closed and a clear record 
kept of the customers funds, which they are still entitled to claim. In Ms Bs case, she can 
reclaim the funds provided the necessary requirements are met. Barclays has explained Ms 
B needs to meet the ID and verification requirements, which involves Ms B providing certified 
ID and proof of address documents. These are standard requirements for a reclaim process, 
and I cant see that the information Barclays has asked for goes beyond what I would expect 
a bank to require for funds to be released. 
I understand Ms B is not a full time UK resident and attending branch and providing some of 
the information required presents more challenges. However, I can see Barclays has tried to 
accommodate this by arranging for a branch meeting for Ms B when she was in the UK to 
assist with the reclaim process. Barclays records indicate Ms B did attend branch but did not 
go through the reclaim process. It has explained Ms B can reclaim funds via its portal or 
attending a branch when she is next in the UK. 
Ms B has also referred to the time it will take for the funds to be released to her, as Barclays 
has indicated this can take up to 12 weeks. I understand Ms B may consider this an 
unreasonable amount of time, but this is in keeping with general industry timeframes given 
the checks required. 
Overall, I am satisfied Barclays has closed Ms Bs accounts down fairly and it has taken 
reasonable steps to assist Ms B with reclaiming her funds. If Ms B still wishes to access her funds, I would encourage her to discuss any issues she is having with the proof of address 
aspect of the requirements directly with Barclays so she can consider the next steps.  
I know this will not be the outcome Ms B was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont 
be asking Barclays to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman