DRN-1700408
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined his home insurance (buildings) 
claim.
All references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2019 Mr L made a claim on his home insurance policy for damage to his roof because 
hed noticed that water had entered his property. He believed the damage had happened 
during a storm the previous summer.
Ageas arranged for Mr Ls property to be inspected and declined his claim. It said that the 
damage to the roof wasnt consistent with a storm peril. The rain had entered Mr Ls home 
due to several other factors that didnt relate to a storm. General wear and tear, deterioration 
and gradual operating causes were excluded under the terms of the policy.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said he could clearly remember a storm with 
strong winds and torrential rain occurring in July 2018. He believed this had caused the 
damage to the roof. He hadnt realised at the time that water had got into the roof causing 
the boarding to rot and give way. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She accepted there had been storm in Mr Ls area in July 2018. But she didnt think this was 
the main cause of the damage to Mr Ls property. She felt that the main cause of the 
damage was likely to be wear and tear, which was excluded under the terms of Mr Ls policy.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said it was storm conditions, including 
very strong winds that caused the damage. Without the storm, the roofing would have lasted 
for many more years. So, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ageas says the damage to Mr Ls roof isnt covered by his policy. Its referred to two 
conditions which say:
We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually, over a period of time, 
such as rust, corrosion, fading and shrinkage.
As with most insurers, you are not covered for any loss or damage resulting from 
wear, tear and depreciation 
Ageas says the damage wasnt caused by a storm. To consider a claim under the storm 
section of a policy, it would expect to see wind speeds of 55mph or above accompanied by 
heavy rain, hail or snow. 
Mr L says the damage was caused by a storm in July 2018. He can remember very strong 
winds, causing trees to bend over at a 90-degree angle and torrential rain. And hes provided 
us with a link to an article in his local newspaper to support this.
Having reviewed the information Mr L has provided, Im satisfied that there was a storm in 
the location of Mr Ls house in July 2018. But to uphold Mr Ls complaint Id need to be 
persuaded that this was the main cause of the damage to Mr Ls roof. And having reviewed 
everything carefully, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Ageas says the rain had entered Mr L due to other factors. There was vegetation growing on 
the roof causing the tiles to lift slightly, allowing water to seep under them into the home. The 
guttering was showing slight decay and was starting to deteriorate. And the felting was 
starting to crack and break down which was allowing rain to enter through the areas of 
weakness. It says Mr L had told the surveyor inspecting the property that his son had carried 
out previous repairs to the roof and photographs showed the roof haze had been poorly 
repaired. This indicated the damage was not a one-off incident. 
Ageas has provided a report from the surveyor who inspected Mr Ls property. The surveyor 
concluded that there was no evidence of storm damage and their opinion was that the long-
standing failure of the roof coverings due to decay caused by gradual process loss had 
caused water to enter the property before being absorbed by the walls. The report referred 
specifically to the factors Ageas has given as its reasons for declining Mr Ls claim.
The report concludes with we observed no evidence of storm, impact or insured peril having 
occurred to the roof covering of the garage, corridor or perimeter gutter. It is therefore our 
considered opinion the long-standing failure of the roof coverings due to decay caused by 
gradual process loss, has allowed rainwater to ingress into the property before being 
absorbed by the walls of the converted garage and shower room. Due to there being no 
insured peril in operation, we have therefore declined this element of the claim in full.
The information in the report is detailed and Im persuaded by what it says. I also havent 
seen any firm evidence that the experts report is incorrect.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr L who has had to pay a significant amount of 
money to have his roof repaired. But having considered everything, I dont think Ageas has 
acted unfairly or has unreasonably rejected Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman