DRN-1676279
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy how Delisa Miller, trading as Chandler Simmons, dealt with a claim for 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2017, Mrs R instructed Chandler Simmons to make a claim for potentially mis-sold PPI 
against Lender B. Lender B said Mrs R hadnt been sold PPI, so Chandler Simmons couldnt 
progress the claim any further. But, in 2019, Lender B said theyd got it wrong in 2017 and 
Mrs R had been sold PPI. Lender B also said the PPI policy had been mis-sold and they 
paid Mrs R compensation for this. So Chandler Simmons invoiced Mrs R for their fees.
Mrs R has complained that Chandler Simmons are charging her for a claim that was 
successful only after they closed their case. She says it was Lender B who re-opened the 
claim, after another claims management company (CMC) had queried another rejection 
decision, and Chandler Simmons had no involvement in the claim being a success.
Our investigator said the successful claim was submitted by Chandler Simmons in 2017, and 
it was only because of an error by Lender B at the time that the claim wasnt successful. She 
said that, if it hadnt been for Chandler Simmons preparing and instructing the claim as 
instructed, Mrs R wouldnt have received any compensation. So she thought Chandler 
Simmons fees were due. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. She says that Chandler Simmons shouldve 
contacted her to see if she wanted to deal with the claim herself, or if she wanted them to do 
it. Because of this, shes asked that an ombudsman make a final decision on her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the Terms of Engagement Mrs R signed when she instructed Chandler 
Simmons on 7 August 2017. In signing this, Mrs R agreed that Chandler Simmons would act 
for her in her PPI claims. This wasnt a free PPI check, where Chandler Simmons would 
report back to say if PPI had been sold and ask Mrs R if she wanted them to make claims on 
her behalf. So I dont agree with Mrs R that Chandler Simmons had an obligation to do this.
Chandler Simmons started the claims process against Lender B, as instructed. Mrs R had 
been mis-sold PPI but, at the time, Lender B said she hadnt even been sold PPI. This was 
an error by Lender B, and I cant hold Chandler Simmons responsible for this error.If Lender B hadnt made the error, the claim wouldve been successful and Mrs R wouldve 
received his compensation in 2017. Chandler Simmons wouldve then invoiced her for their 
fees, and there wouldve been no argument that these fees were rightfully due.
But Lender B had made an error. In their letter of 15 March 2019, Lender B explained that 
Chandler Simmons had started the claim process for Mrs R, but theyd incorrectly told them 
that Mrs R didnt have any PPI. They said theyd reviewed the claim and, because PPI had 
both been sold and mis-sold, theyd now be paying Mrs R almost £5,000 compensation. 
This letter makes it clear the review process stemmed from the claim Chandler Simmons 
made, and not from any claim any other CMC had made. Lender B also didnt contact either 
Chandler Simmons or Mrs R about the claim when they re-opened it, to get any further 
details about the sale of the PPI policy. They just reviewed the claim and found PPI had 
been mis-sold. The first either Chandler Simmons or Mrs R knew about this was when 
Lender B wrote to them, telling them about the successful claim. And in writing to Chandler 
Simmons, Lender B recognised them as instigating the successful claim, not anyone else. 
So the claim was only successful because of the work Chandler Simmons did in 2017. For 
this reason, I agree that their fee is rightfully due; as it wouldve been in 2017 if Lender B 
hadnt told everyone Mrs R hadnt been sold PPI. Chandler Simmons charge a percentage 
success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually do. This means that, 
where a claim was successful, Chandler Simmonss fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. So, just because Chandler Simmonss fee is higher than the 
value of the work they have done for Mrs R, this doesnt make their fee unjustified.
When Mrs R instructed Chandler Simmons to act for her in 2017, the Terms of Engagement 
said their fee was 33% + VAT of the compensation. Since Mrs R instructed Chandler 
Simmons, theyve reduced their fee to 20% plus VAT. While theyre still entitled to charge 
the higher rate, Chandler Simmons have reduced their fee to the lower rate. So I wont be 
asking them to reduce, or waive, their fee any further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Delisa Miller. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman