DRN-1671380
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) have been 
irresponsible when providing her with credit shopping accounts. Mrs T feels more should 
have been done after shed asked not to be allowed to open new accounts in 2006. 
Mrs Ts complaints cover a couple of different trading names for Shop Direct. To keep things 
simple, Im just going to refer to all of them as Shop Direct in this decision. Mrs Ts complaint 
has been brought to us by a representative. Again, for simplicity, Ill use Mrs T in my decision 
to cover things both she and her representative have said or written. 
What happened
Mrs T contacted Shop Direct and some other credit shopping companies in 2006. She 
wanted to close her accounts and make it so she couldnt open any new ones. She 
explained shed decided to do this because of a medical condition. Mrs Ts told us that her 
condition means she sometimes struggles to control her spending, and can become severely 
depressed because of the unaffordable situation this creates. 
Mrs Ts Shop Direct accounts were paid off and closed by the start of 2007. But Mrs T was 
then able to open new accounts with Shop Direct in 2011, 2015 and 2017. The account 
opened in 2011 was closed in 2013. The other two were still open at the time of Mrs Ts 
complaint in June 2019. 
Shop Direct said in response to the complaint that they didnt have a record of Mrs T telling 
them about her medical condition or asking them to bar her from opening new accounts in 
2006. Being unaware of that information, Shop Direct felt theyd acted responsibly when 
giving Mrs T her later accounts. To support this, they explained what checks theyd done 
when the accounts were opened and when the credit limits were changed. 
The complaint was brought to us for investigation. Our investigator didnt think we could deal 
with Mrs Ts complaint relating to the account opened in 2011, as it was outside our time 
limits. The investigator saw that Shop Direct had no record of Mrs Ts 2006 request, and 
accepted this probably meant they hadnt received it. Without that, Shop Directs checks 
when opening the accounts and changing the credit limits looked reasonable, as did their 
efforts to help when told about Mrs Ts financial difficulties. 
Mrs T didnt feel it was right to accept that Shop Direct hadnt received the letter that shed 
sent them in 2006. She knew shed sent it to them, so felt it was more likely it had been 
received and not handled properly by Shop Direct. Mrs T felt that having received the 
information, it was unreasonable for Shop Direct not to consider it when they gave her the 
later accounts. 
So the case has come to me for a final decision. While I know its not what Mrs T would have 
hoped for, Ill explain below why I find the service Shop Direct gave her was reasonable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint as it relates to the account opened in 2011 falls outside of our time limits. I 
can see the reason for this was covered accurately in the investigators findings, and hasnt 
been challenged. So all Ill say here is that Ive looked at the details and I agree that a 
complaint about that account is outside of our time limits. 
What we can look at is whether Shop Directs service to Mrs T has been fair and reasonable 
over the last six years, or in matters shes become aware of over the last three years. When 
looking at complaints about whether a company should have given a customer credit, Ill 
usually think about the rules set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Ill also think about the Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance, written by the Office of Fair Trading. 
I can see the investigators written views, and Shop Directs response to the complaint, have 
considered whats in the rules and the guidance. Mrs Ts past use of credit was looked at 
before she was given a new account. Her ability to keep on top of her borrowing was 
revisited when changing her credit limits. And when she contacted Shop Direct in 2019 to 
say there was a problem, they tried to work out a payment plan that would help. 
Ive looked at the same records that the investigator saw, which show the checks and 
reviews that Shop Direct carried out. Ive held them up against the same standards. So its 
perhaps not a surprise that I come to the same conclusion: the checks and reviews that were 
done by Shop Direct were reasonable. 
I cant see that Mrs T disagreed with this part of the investigators findings, so Im not going 
to go into any more detail about it. The point of disagreement here is whether its okay for 
Shop Direct to have no record of Mrs T telling them about her medical condition and asking 
them not to give her any new accounts in 2006. 
I can understand Mrs Ts point here. Where a customer has specifically asked a company 
not to give them a new credit account, theres an expectation thatll be listened to. 
Saying that, a company could have some practical difficulties acting on a request like that. 
For example, changes of name or address might let a new account slip past a promise not to 
allow it. Mistakes could also come from a business working over a range of different trading 
identities, or from policies to keep personal medical information from being held for too long 
after an account is closed. Or an automated process, used for valid commercial reasons to 
save time and cost, could fail to take account of an individual request like this one. 
Companies often wont promise theyd bar a customer if they cant be sure they can actually 
do it. 
Shop Direct have no record of receiving the October 2006 letter, while Mrs T feels they must 
have received it. Ive seen Mrs Ts letters. The wish to close the accounts at that time is 
consistent with Shop Directs records of the accounts being closed. But those same records 
make no mention of the October 2006 letter being received. Other contact is noted instead, 
in July and November 2006 and in January 2007, which led to the accounts being closed. 
The letter being absent from the record created at the time gives weight to Shop Directs 
saying they didnt receive it.But whether the letter was received or not, Ive certainly seen no commitment by Shop Direct 
in 2006 to bar Mrs T from opening accounts in the future. 
I appreciate that Mrs T says she wasnt fully in control of her actions when she applied for 
her new accounts. But equally, I wouldnt expect Shop Direct to bar her, given they made no 
commitment to do that previously. When Mrs T opened the new accounts, Shop Direct took 
reasonable steps to check she looked like she could afford and manage them. Similar 
checks were done before the credit limits were changed. That is all consistent with a 
reasonable service being provided. 
None of this takes away from the difficulties Mrs T has told us about because of her debts. 
Im very aware my decision on the issues here cant help her with that, particularly for the 
future. There are organisations that can provide free assistance in dealing with creditors, 
with particular emphasis on assisting people who share her condition. They include 
StepChange, Citizens Advice and National Debtline.
My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited gave Mrs T a reasonable service, so I do not uphold 
the complaint against them. They dont need to take any more action in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman