DRN-3064289
The complaint
S a limited complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its account and took too long to 
release funds held in the account. 
S is represented by its director, Mr M. 
What happened
S had a business account with HSBC. In early September 2019 four payments totalling just 
under £60,000 was paid into Ss account.
HSBC asked Mr M to provide proof of Ss entitlement to the payments. Mr M explained that 
the payments were from a customer, who I will refer to as B, that S had supplied and 
delivered goods to. HSBC asked Mr M to provide paperwork to support his explanation. In 
response, Mr M went into a branch and provided invoices and receipts for goods he says he 
had supplied B.
Following this HSBC received notification from the sending bank that the payments paid into 
Ss account were the result of fraud. HSBC returned the funds back to source and after 
reviewing what happened decided to close Ss account. They wrote to Mr M in February 
2020 advising him that it would close Ss account in 60 days, and that hed need to make 
alternative banking arrangements for his business. 
The remaining balance of Ss account was just over £40,000. HSBC decided to review 
Mr Ms entitlement to these funds in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
But it didnt ask Mr M to provide any further information and didnt take any steps to move 
things forward until September 2020. 
Unhappy with how long things were taking Mr M brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators considered it. Mr M says his business was impacted by HSBC 
holding onto the balance of Ss account and he had to trade on credit. Hes explained that he 
needed access to the funds to buy stock to sell to customers. And he had to keep chasing 
HSBC to try and find out what was happening to the money in Ss account, but the bank 
wouldnt give him much information.
The investigator said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when it returned the money paid 
into Ss account in September 2019 back to source. And that the bank was entitled to review 
Ss account and had done so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. She said that 
the bank had treated S fairly when it closed its accounts. But she didnt think HSBC had 
completed its review in a timely manner.  She said that HSBC should have released Ss 
remaining balance sooner than it did  in September 2020. So, she said HSBC should 
release the closing balance to S, pay £250 for delays and interest on loss of use of the 
closing balance from 1 September 2020.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators view. So, the investigator sent information she 
obtained from Mr M about his entitlement to the remaining balance. And said her 
recommendations about what HSBC should do to put things right hadnt changed. 
In response, HSBC accepted it had made some administrative errors during its review 
process which meant it had to resubmit information as part of its internal processes whilst it 
was reviewing Ss account. And said it didnt do this until January 2021. However, it said 
overall it was following its internal processes and hadnt been able to release Ss balance 
until it had fully completed its account closure process.
In May 2021, HSBC released Ss remaining balance and issued a cheque for the funds to 
Mr M. HSBC said that it disagreed with paying S compensation as S had received fraudulent 
funds, and although there isnt any evidence that Mr M was complicit equally it couldnt be 
sure Mr M had been an unwitting beneficiary of fraud. So, it asked for an Ombudsman to 
review things. 
In November 2021, Mr M let the investigator know that he hadnt received the cheque for Ss 
closing balance. The investigator reached out to HSBC to find out what was happening. The 
bank confirmed the cheque hadnt been cashed. It said it had been sent in the post so 
couldnt explain why Mr M hadnt received it. The investigator made some further enquiries 
about the cheque with Mr M. He said he wouldnt have been able to cash the cheque even if 
he had received it as he hadnt been able to open a new business account. After a bit of 
back and forth the investigator arranged for HSBC to pay the balance to Mr M via a bank 
transfer. This was done in January 2022.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Ss complaint in part. And Ill explain why.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Ss account also permit HSBC to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HSBC to block Ss account. Ss account had received over £50,000 of fraudulent funds 
so I can understand the banks concerns. HSBC has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so HSBC were complying with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same 
situation, and it enabled HSBC to consider how best to react to the report it had received 
from the other bank about the money paid into Ss account. So, whilst I accept, the banks 
actions caused S inconvenience when it decided to block its accounts and asked Mr M to 
come into branch and provide information,  I cant say the bank did anything wrong and 
treated him unfairly in doing so. 
However, while HSBC are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. HSBC initially blocked Ss account in September 
2019.  I can see that HSBC asked Mr M to provide it with information and Mr M did so on 11 
and 12 September 2019. Following this HSBC decided to close Ss account and wrote to Mr M on 18 February 2020 giving him 60 days notice that Ss account would be closed. So, 
this means Ss account wouldve been closed in mid- April 2020. 
Following an account closure a customers balance is usually released. However, from 
looking at the timeline provided by HSBC, I can see that Ss balance, wasnt returned until 
January 2022  which is more than two years after the account was first blocked.  And more 
than 18 months after the account was closed. So, Ive looked at what was happening that 
might explain why it took so long for HSBC to return Ss balance. 
Having done so, I can see that HSBC were completing administrative processes in order to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations so that it could release Ss balance. And 
HSBC has rightly pointed out that this was a process that had to be completed  if it didnt do 
so the bank could face serious sanctions. But from looking at the timeline of events, I can 
also see that this process should have been completed much sooner and that Ss balance 
should have been released at the latest by 1 September 2020. 
HSBC has accepted it caused delays and made errors during its administrative processes. It 
has explained that it had to resubmit information due to errors it made. But it didnt do this 
until January 2021, which was more than a year after it had first blocked Ss account. HSBC 
havent provided an explanation why it took so long to progress its review, so I havent seen 
any evidence to satisfy me that HSBCs actions are reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. While I recognise that HSBC are entitled to carry out a review, and must comply with 
various legal obligations, I dont consider the account balance being withheld for nearly two 
years with little contact acceptable. So, Im not satisfied HSBC completed its review in a 
timely manner and treated S fairly. Because of this, I think HSBC should pay compensation 
to recognise the trouble caused to S.
Mr M has explained that S didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the block and delays 
as he was still able to trade. But hes said not having access to Ss account balance for so 
long made it difficult for him to run his business. Hes explained that he had to buy supplies 
on credit and borrow money from friends which he doesnt normally do. And he had to spend 
time organising this which took him away from running his business. So, I can appreciate 
this wouldve been inconvenient and time consuming for him. And its only right that HSBC 
recognises this. Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to 
the trouble S was caused. 
HSBC has released the balance of Ss account to Mr M. It did this in January 2022 by 
organising a bank transfer. But I can see that HSBC tried to release the balance to Mr M 
sooner. It sent him a cheque on 12 May 2021. Mr M says he never received the cheque and 
HSBC has confirmed it has never been cashed. Ive seen a copy of the letter HSBC sent to 
Mr M enclosing the cheque. The letter was correctly addressed, and Mr M hasnt said that he 
was having any problems with his post. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M did 
receive the cheque. Based on the evidence I think its likely that he just couldnt cash it as he 
didnt have a business bank account at the time rather than he hadnt received the cheque. 
And it wouldnt be fair of me to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Ms lack of account. 
However, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that HSBC has caused unnecessary delays in 
returning Ss balance to Mr M, and I think 8% simple interest our service recommends when 
someone has been deprived of funds they otherwise would have had, is fair compensation. It 
should pay this from 1 September 2020 until the funds were released, which was the date 
HSBC issued Mr M a cheque in May 2021. 
HSBC has argued that it doesnt believe 8% should be payable when it cant be sure Mr M 
isnt complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. Our investigator spoke to Mr M about this. He 
responded and provided paperwork to show hed sold goods to B. And hes also provided paperwork to show his entitlement to the remaining balance of Ss account that was released 
to him. Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to doubt the authenticity of Mr Ms explanation  
its fits the timeline and is specific to the amount of money S received. Ive also not seen 
anything to suggest Mr M was aware the money paid into Ss account was fraudulent. 
Ive thought about what Id expect Mr M to do if hed knowingly received fraudulent funds. Id 
normally expect the money to be moved on quickly or withdrawn. But this didnt happen. So, 
overall, Im not satisfied that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in receiving fraudulent funds. 
And Ive not seen HSBC had any issues with Ss remaining balance  it returned this to 
Mr M. Therefore, Im asking HSBC to pay 8% simple on loss of use of these funds.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr M with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
HSBC gave S 60 days notice of its intention to close his accounts. So, it was entitled to 
close the account as it has already done, and I cant say HSBC treated S unfairly when it 
closed its account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should pay S:
£250 compensation for the trouble caused by the time taken for HSBC to complete 
its review of S account and release its funds and
Interest at 8% simple on Ss closing balance from 1 September 2020 until 12 May 
2021
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman