DRN-2022343
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr W holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Hes unhappy that Halifax added legal costs to his mortgage account in connection with a 
ground rent dispute between him and his freeholder. Mr W says Halifax had a duty of care 
towards him and should remove the costs from his mortgage account.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr W when my decision is published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly, are that Mr W has a mortgage with Halifax on 
the leasehold property he lives in. Mr W has been in periodic disputes with his freeholder 
over ground rent payments during the past decade. In that time, theres been a tribunal 
hearing, and a complaint to this service about Halifax paying disputed sums to the freeholder 
against Mr Ws wishes. These historic matters arent what this complaint is about; any 
reference I make to them in the narrative of this decision is merely to provide some context 
to the current dispute.
In 2019, Mr Ws freeholders started possession proceedings to forfeit the lease over what it 
considered outstanding ground rent of £450; with administrative costs and legal fees, the 
total claim was around £4,300. Halifax was aware of the action, but Mr W had asked it not to 
pay the disputed ground rent as he was confident he didnt owe it. Halifax didnt pay the 
freeholder as it had done in the past, but what it did do was instruct solicitors to advise it on 
the implications for it of the dispute.
The case came to court in August 2019 and the judge made an initial order adjourning the 
case whilst Mr W prepared his defence; the August order also included a provision for costs 
to be awarded in the event of a final determination. When the case came back to court the 
following month, the court ordered that Halifax be added as second defendant, but that the 
case itself be adjourned generally with liberty to restore. 
In the meantime, however, Mr W had brought a complaint against Halifax. Between 
August and October 2019, Halifax had debited Mr Ws mortgage account with various 
amounts in respect of legal costs incurred by its solicitors; cumulatively, they came to 
approximately £3,000. Halifax had also informed Mr W that this had caused an increase in 
his monthly payment. Mr W considered the legal costs unfair and unnecessary, and initially 
he refused to increase his monthly instalment. He changed his mind on that after the 
complaint came to us.
The case never went back to court; earlier this year, Mr W informed us that in 
December 2019, he and his freeholder had agreed to settle the matter informally by Mr W 
paying £300. On learning for the first time that the court case had been settled, Halifax 
debited a final sum of just over £300 to Mr Ws mortgage account for outstanding legal costs.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. He wasnt persuaded Halifax 
had acted unreasonably by consulting solicitors; he was also satisfied that the terms of the 
mortgage permitted Halifax to debit the costs of doing so to Mr Ws mortgage account. Mr W 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Mr W.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In an email to our investigator in March 2020, Mr W crystallised his argument into two main 
points; suitably summarised, these are:
The costs were incurred unreasonably because he had told Halifax he didnt owe the 
money to the freeholder; and
The amounts debited were excessively high and not a fair reflection of the work carried 
out by the solicitor.
Ill address these in order. 
Although this complaint hasnt arisen because Halifax paid disputed ground rent (as I said 
earlier, it didnt do so in this instance) it may provide some helpful context and background if 
I explain why the issue generally is of such importance to a mortgage lender. The threat by a 
freeholder to seek forfeiture of the lease due to unpaid ground rent or other items by a 
leaseholder has the potential to leave a lender without any security for the money its owed 
under a mortgage. 
So its not uncommon for a lender, on learning of a dispute between freeholder and 
leaseholder, to step in and pay the disputed sums, in order to preserve its security. Under 
the terms of the mortgage, a lender can then debit the amount it has paid to the 
leaseholders mortgage account. But that shouldnt happen when there is just the threat of 
forfeiture; the likelihood of forfeiture needs to be more substantive. The issue has to have 
been to court or a relevant tribunal where its been found there has been a breach of the 
lease. 
If Halifax had simply paid the freeholder on first learning of the dispute in 2019, we could 
potentially have received a very different complaint from Mr W, that Halifax had acted hastily 
and gone against his express wish and paid a sum that he was adamant he didnt owe. As it stands, Halifax didnt act hastily (by paying the ground rent before the threat of forfeiture had 
become substantive) and it didnt go against Mr Ws express wish.
But the fact remains that Halifax was concerned about the potential for its security to be lost, 
and it was right to be, given the risk Ive explained above, combined with the history of 
disputes between Mr W and his freeholder. 
I understand Mr W was confident of his position in the 2019 dispute but Halifax wasnt 
obliged to share his confidence, or to believe Mr W would win simply because he said so. 
Nor did it have a duty of care to Mr W in the dispute as he thinks; its duty was to protect its 
security whilst at the same time not treating Mr W unfairly. In the circumstances, it was 
reasonable for Halifax to take legal advice. So, on the first point of Mr Ws argument, I dont 
agree that the legal costs were incurred unreasonably or unnecessarily.
As to the amounts involved, theres an important distinction to be made about what does and 
does not fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr W has taken issue 
with the level at which Halifaxs solicitors charge for their time, and queried whether its legal 
for the solicitors then to add VAT to the amounts they invoiced to Halifax.
We dont cover the activities of firms of solicitors, and its not within my power to decide what 
a firms charging rate for its professional time should be. As to whether solicitors fees legally 
attract VAT, thats a matter for HM Revenue and Customs to decide. So I cant consider how 
much Halifaxs solicitors charged for the work they did; merely whether the amount of work 
they charged for was fairly and reasonably carried out.
On this latter point, there are many variables that go into determining how much activity a 
firm of solicitors needs to carry out in a situation such as this; its not just dependent on the 
extent to which the court case itself is directly active. Theres correspondence - letters, 
phone calls and emails - with the client (i.e. Halifax), correspondence with the court, 
correspondence with the other side, court fees, time spent assessing the merits of the 
various arguments of the case, as well as the general supporting administration. Only part of 
that equation is controllable by Halifax; there are things that other parties might do (or not 
do) that have the potential to increase the amount of chargeable activity on the part of its 
solicitors. 
For example, its conceivable that Halifax could have ended its instruction earlier than it did 
(potentially reducing the final bill from January 2020) if one of the other parties (i.e. Mr W, 
the freeholder or the court) had informed it sooner that the case had been settled. Similarly, 
the need for Halifax to seek legal advice might have been negated entirely if Mr W had 
negotiated a settlement with the freeholder before the court action was started, rather than 
after it had been adjourned with liberty to restore. Taking everything into account, I dont find 
that the amount of chargeable activity on the part of Halifaxs solicitors in Mr Ws case was 
excessive. 
Theres one other point to make; the August 2019 court order included provision for costs to 
be decided, and the September 2019 court order made Halifax second defendant alongside 
Mr W. Putting those two things together, its possible that if the case had been decided by 
the court  rather than settled out of court by Mr W and the freeholder  then any award of 
costs the court made might conceivably have covered those incurred by Halifax. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I imply no criticism of Mr W in the preceding paragraphs, and 
none should be inferred. The above observations were made merely to illustrate the point 
that circumstances as a whole (not just those within Halifaxs sphere of influence) determine 
the need for, and amount of, chargeable legal activity in a dispute of this kind. Mr W was 
entitled to take the decisions he took when he took them. What he must also understand is that so was Halifax, and its worth reiterating that, potentially, Halifax had far more to lose 
than Mr W did, if the case had been decided in court in favour of the freeholder.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman