DRN-4301373
The complaint
Mr V complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) converted a large euro payment into his sterling bank 
account at an unfavourable exchange rate.  
What happened
Mr V says before he received a large euro payment into his sterling bank account, he spoke 
with TSB who informed him these monies would be converted at the market rate, but when 
the payment arrived it was converted at a significantly different exchange rate to what he 
had expected, costing him over £8,000.  
Mr V says he believes TSB are unfairly profiting by applying hidden fees within the exchange 
rate. Mr V says he has evidence to support the fact TSB didnt use an exchange rate that 
compared to the market rates at the time of the transaction. 
Mr V wants TSB to reimburse him with the FX loss he incurred, which he calculates to be 
£8,350.
TSB says it applied the exchange rate applicable at the time it was received, and rates can 
fluctuate throughout the day, and it is unable to guarantee an exchange rate. TSB says it is 
entitled to make commercial decisions regarding the exchange rates it offers, and it didnt act 
unreasonably in not using the exchange rate Mr V would have preferred. 
Mr V wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says there is no evidence to suggest TSB told Mr V it would use a market rate 
when it converted the Euros it received into sterling. The investigator pointed out TSBs 
literature and terms and conditions state it would use its standard exchange rate and theres 
no single exchange rate for currency that all banks must track. The investigator says she 
couldnt tell TSB what exchange rates it must use. 
The investigator says although one telephone call recording couldnt be located by TSB, 
even so she didnt feel on balance a trained international team member of staff would hold 
incorrect knowledge of what exchange rates are used. The investigator didnt feel TSB had 
to call Mr V before converting the euros and this is explained in its terms and conditions. 
Overall, the investigator couldnt find any evidence of TSB making a mistake with the 
exchange rate it used.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr V to have received much less than he 
was expecting when a large euro payment was converted into sterling by TSB. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB unfairly applied the exchange rate it did 
when it received the payment in euros for the credit of Mr Vs sterling bank account. 
While both parties have provided comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I have 
considered everything  I have. 
The first thing to say here is the payment generated wasnt initiated by Mr V and as already 
explained, under the terms and conditions of the account TSB arent obliged to pre-advise 
Mr V of its receipt, before converting the funds into sterling. 
Mr Vs complaint centres around the fact he believes TSB have unfairly profited by using an 
exchange rate, in his view with potentially a built-in fee, that wasnt in line with the prevailing 
market exchange rates at that time. Mr V says he was told by TSB before the funds arrived it 
would use the market rate and it hasnt done that costing him over £8,000.
Like the investigator, I can only look at the evidence provided to this service and from what I 
have seen TSBs terms and conditions refer to a standard exchange rate and that rate is set 
by TSB and will fluctuate from time to time throughout the day. Its worth noting that its not 
for me to tell TSB what exchange rate it must use, after all thats a business decision for it to 
take which may take into account a number of factors at the time. 
Mr V says he was told by TSB in an earlier telephone call in February 2023 it would apply 
the market exchange rate. TSB have informed this service that call cannot be traced and 
therefore I need to consider what might have been discussed in all likelihood here. Like the 
investigator Im not persuaded its likely that a trained member of TSBs international money 
mover team would have, in all probability, told Mr V it would use a market exchange rate, 
rather than its own standard exchange rate at the time, as detailed in its own terms and 
conditions. 
Its entirely possible this was either misunderstood or not explained clearly of course, but 
without the call recording itself its not possible for me to know what was said exactly.  
While Mr V has provided information regarding exchange rates more widely, including the 
Bank of England spot rate, thats not to say those rates will or must be offered by TSB as it 
uses its own standard exchange rate and like many businesses this may include a margin of 
profit. As I have mentioned earlier such rates will fluctuate throughout the day but here I 
cant see any evidence to show TSB have added a fee within the exchange rate as Mr V 
suggests. 
Unfortunately, the funds sent were in euros and it seems Mr V had no control over that, so 
when the funds arrived for the credit of his sterling account as designated, TSB acted 
correctly and converted these at its standard exchange rate and as such I cant say it has 
made an error in doing so, for the reasons I have already stated.
While Mr V will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman