DRN-4051685
The complaint
Mr G and Miss Y complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) unfairly declined their 
buy-to-let mortgage application.
What happened
Mr G and Miss Y applied to TMW for a buy-to-let mortgage. They paid a valuation fee, but 
the valuation report recorded the property as having a nil value. This led to TMW declining 
the application and returning the valuation fee. 
Mr G and Miss Y asked for the valuation report to be reviewed as the property they were 
wanting to purchase they said was in a booming area for rentals. In addition, it also had a 
sitting tenant. They also argued that their lettings agent had told them there was a high 
demand for properties in that particular area and they provided details from Zoopla of 
properties sold since 2018.
TMW still declined to lend on the property as they said the property was situated was in an 
area where the overwhelming demand came from the investor led market, and as such it sat 
outside their lending policy. They did not accept that they had made any error or mistake and 
as such rejected Mr G and Miss Ys complaint.
Mr G and Miss Y were unhappy with TMWs final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that TMW hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr G and Miss Y didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The crux of this complaint lies in TMWs polices. Its not our role to recommend how financial 
businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  thats 
for them to determine. We dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and 
procedures and have applied them fairly. And it is for a business to decide what level of risk 
they wish to take when making decisions to lend against property.
When Mr G and Miss Y applied for a buy-to-let mortgage there was no guarantee that TMW 
would accept that application and grant a mortgage. The application was always going to be 
subject to a valuation and assessment of whether the property was a suitable property 
against which to lend.
TMW carried out a valuation and when they received the valuation report took that into 
account. The report was very clear in its observations, stating,
The property is situated within an area where sustainable demand for owner 
occupation is weak. Therefore and in accordance with policy, the property is deemed 
unsuitable security.
In my view TMW are and were entitled to rely on that report when considering their own 
lending criteria and having done so they have done nothing more than apply their lending 
policy to the facts of the case. It was a decision TMW were entitled to make and is not 
something I can interfere in.
I do note Mr G and Miss Y have supplied evidence of previous property sales which they feel 
supports their argument, but that does not mean that TMW have to accept it without 
question. TMW did review the application but decided that in the light of the valuation report 
it deemed the property an unsuitable security because there wasnt sufficient demand in the 
area for owner occupation. And TMWs policy is that they wont lend unless theres demand 
in all areas of the market.
Specifically, TMWs valuers guide states,
TMW requires that a property taken into mortgage, and crucially at the time of 
inspection should be fit for immediate letting, subject to any essential repairs and 
that it be readily lettable/saleable at the figures provided.
Any property that requires significant/multi-trade repair/refurbishment will not be 
acceptable. A property should only be accepted for mortgage and valued if such 
demand exists across all sectors of the market (investment/buy to let and owner 
occupation); TMW will not accept a situation where demand only exists in the 
investment sector.
There is no evidence that TMW are applying their lending policy inconsistently or unequally 
to its customers and specifically to Mr G and Miss Y. So, although Mr G and Miss Y will 
probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say TMW has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against The Mortgage Works 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman