DRN-1695895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) turned down a claim Mrs W 
made on their private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out private medical insurance with AXA on 30 January 2019. In June 
Mrs W contacted AXA to make a claim on the policy for back problems. She said an MRI 
scan had found nerve root compression. AXA asked for information from her GP. Based on 
that information it said it wouldnt cover the claim because the GP said she first contacted 
him about this condition on 4 January 2019. So this was a pre-existing condition which the 
policy didnt cover. 
Mrs W said the condition shed contacted her GP about in January was back pain following a 
knee replacement and related problems with her sacroiliac joint. She said the condition shed 
claimed for was different to that and had only been diagnosed after her MRI scan. AXA 
accepted a separate claim for neck problems was covered by the policy but still thought Mrs 
W had symptoms of the back problem shed claimed for prior to the policy start date. So it 
wouldnt pay for the treatment of this. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly but Mrs W didnt agree. She said the back pain 
in January was thought to be related to the sacroiliac joint. The nerve compression problem 
was different to this and there was no evidence of that until the MRI scan had taken place. 
She said her consultant had said this should be treated as a separate condition (and the 
claim paid) and she wouldnt have taken out the policy if shed known treatment would be 
turned down on this basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In considering how that applies 
in this case Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy.
It says in the first two years of cover there is no cover for the treatment of pre-existing 
conditions. It defines a pre-existing condition as any disease, illness or injury for which you 
have received medication, advice or treatment or you have experienced symptoms whether 
the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three yearsbefore the start of your cover.
In this case the policy started on 31 January 2019. So the question is whether the condition 
Mrs W subsequently claimed for meets that definition of a pre-existing condition. 
Ive reviewed her GPs notes and can see that on 4 January it records her as restarting 
prescription drug treatment for back pain. Mrs W has argued that related to back pain she 
was suffering from as a result of her knee replacement and the related problems with her 
sacroiliac joint. And she says the back problem she subsequently claimed for was only 
diagnosed after the policy start date and following her appointment with a consultant (and 
subsequent MRI scan). 
Ive seen the letters from her consultant and I agree thats the case. But the policy doesnt 
require a condition to be diagnosed prior to the start date for it to be classed as a pre-
existing. In fact it makes clear that it includes any disease, illness or injury whether 
diagnosed or not which the policyholder has experienced symptoms of in the three years 
before the policy started. 
And I think Mrs W did have symptoms of the condition she later claimed for prior to the policy 
start date. I can see injections were provided on the basis the issue was caused by the 
sacroiliac joint. I note that when these were given following a previous knee replacement 
operation they did resolve the problem. But on this occasions Mrs Ws symptoms returned 
and it was because of that she was referred to a consultant. He felt the cause of the problem 
was in fact nerve root compression which was subsequently shown on her MRI scan. 
That suggests it wasnt the sacroiliac joint that was the main cause of Mrs Ws back pain in 
January 2019 but the nerve compression issue later identified by her consultant. I appreciate 
she wasnt aware of that at the time but the issue is whether she had symptoms of that 
condition in the three years prior to the start of cover. I think she did and so I dont think AXA 
has done anything wrong in turning down the claim she made on the basis this related to a 
pre-existing condition (as defined in the policy). 
Mrs W has said that her consultant has now suggested the cause of the back problems 
shes suffering from could be something else. Im sorry to hear of the ongoing problems that 
must be causing her. But even if a different cause is found, the evidence currently available 
still suggests Mrs W would have had symptoms of this condition prior to the policy start date. 
So this isnt something her policy would cover. 
Mrs W has also raised concerns about what she was told when taking out the policy. 
However, I understand the sale was carried out by a different business (not AXA). That 
means any issues Mrs W has about this would need to be directed to the seller of the policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
21 September 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman