DRN-1948627
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc won't refund two payments she made when she was 
the victim of a scam. She's lost a total of £100,000.
What happened
In early November 2018 and late January 2019 Mrs S made two payments, each of £50,000, 
believing she was buying investment bonds. In fact, it seems she had responded to fake 
literature and wasn't making payments to genuine investment businesses, but to fraudsters. 
Mrs S contacted Santander to see if it could help. It says it tried unsuccessfully to recover 
the money. Since Mrs S had authorised the payments, it wasn't responsible for her losses. 
When Mrs S made the payments (in branch) it had asked what they were for and she had 
confirmed they were genuine.
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
was however broadly in agreement that Santander wasn't responsible for Mrs S's losses. 
Mrs S didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
There is no real question that Mrs S authorised the two payments from her account, in the 
sense that she instructed Santander to make them and to debit her account with it. Where a 
payment is authorised, my starting point is generally that a bank should follow its customer's 
instructions, unless there's good reason not to.
In this case there was, in my view, no particular reason for Santander to think that Mr S was 
doing anything other than what she thought she was doing - transferring money for an 
investment opportunity. Both payments were for significant amounts of money, but 
Santander asked Mrs S what they were for; they would not have been unusual in the context 
of lump sum investments in bonds.
Of course, Mrs S knew very much more than Santander about the background to the 
payments. She didn't believe there was any reason to think she was being defrauded, and I 
don't believe in the circumstances that I can fairly say that Santander should have realised 
there was any cause for concern.   
In cases such as this I would expect a customer's bank to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover any losses from the receiving bank. I'm satisfied Santander did that, but that there 
were no funds left in the account and so no recovery was possible.My final decision
My final decision that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mrs S's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman