DRN-3318535
The complaint
Mr J complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan with MoneyBoat as follows:
Date TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
5/05/2021 Outstanding 5 £800 £258.50
When Mr J complained to MoneyBoat, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. So 
Mr J brought his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators investigated.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat hadnt done anything wrong and didnt recommend 
upholding his complaint.
Mr J disagreed. He mainly said that the extent of his financial difficulties shouldve been 
apparent to MoneyBoat from the credit checks it obtained and it shouldnt have lent to him.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Before agreeing to provide this loan, MoneyBoat asked Mr J for details of his income and 
monthly outgoings. It did an online check to verify the amount of Mr Js salary. MoneyBoat 
also carried out credit checks. It boosted his expenses figure to reflect expenditure it saw 
on his credit report and/or bring his outgoings into line with the statistical average for 
someone in Mr Js particular situation. After doing all this, MoneyBoat said it was satisfied 
that the loan was affordable for Mr J.
But I think MoneyBoat could see that what Mr J had declared about his financial situation 
looked to be significantly at odds with the information shown on its credit checks that 
MoneyBoat sent to us. When he applied for this loan, MoneyBoats credit checks showed 
that Mr J had a total of 13 active accounts and his total indebtedness was well over 
£10,000. This was nearly six times the amount of Mr Js monthly take home pay, which 
I think was a lot of debt for someone in Mr Js situation and a potential sign that he was 
over-reliant on using credit to supplement his day to day spending. 
And I think there were other clear warning signs that Mr J might already by facing serious 
money problems. MoneyBoat could see that he was at or over the credit limit on credit 
card accounts and some of those accounts had already been marked as delinquent  
which I think MoneyBoat would have understood was an indication that Mr J hadnt been 
able to make his contractual repayments to the account on time. 
It looked like he had been making only the minimum monthly repayments to credit cards for 
some time  21 times in the previous 12 months. This suggests to me that he was struggling 
to manage this credit effectively as he wasnt making any inroads into clearing this debt. He 
appeared to be overdrawn on a current account to the full extent of his £2,000 overdraft limit. 
His mortgage account was also marked as delinquent 
I think this shouldve prompted the lender to do more in-depth checks because it didnt look 
like MoneyBoat had a proper understanding of Mr Js financial situation given the 
contradictions between what Mr J had said (or omitted to say), the amount of disposable income MoneyBoat thought he had and the record of payment problems its own credit 
checks revealed.
MoneyBoat could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. But 
Mr J has provided bank statements from around the time and, in the absence of other 
evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide to his finances. So Ive looked through these 
to see what MoneyBoat was likely to have found out about his overall financial situation had 
it carried out more in-depth checks as I believe it should have done before lending. 
And, had MoneyBoat looked more closely into Mr Js finances, it would likely have seen that 
he was facing serious problems managing his money. It would have seen that Mr J was 
spending significant amounts on what appear to be online gambling transactions. So 
MoneyBoat should have realised it shouldnt be providing the loan to Mr J as it wasnt likely 
to be sustainably affordable for him in these circumstances. 
And I think thats borne out by what happened in the event when Mr J couldnt afford the 
repayments.  
I've taken into account MoneyBoats concerns that Mr J complained about this loan just eight 
hours or so after he took it out  and hed spent it by then. But this doesnt affect the 
outcome. It remains the case that had MoneyBoat done a proportionate check before 
agreeing to lend it couldve reasonably foreseen that Mr J wasnt likely to be able to repay 
the loan and so it shouldnt have provided the loan in these circumstances. So thats why 
I am planning to uphold the complaint. 
Mr J also complained about MoneyBoats refusal to allow him to include this debt in a debt 
management plan. I havent seen enough to be able to say that MoneyBoat acted so unfairly 
or unreasonably overall in this regard that any additional redress is warranted. But Mr J has 
had to pay extra for lending that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair and 
Im planning to say that MoneyBoat needs to take the following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr J has accepted what Ive said. I have heard nothing further from MoneyBoat and the 
deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr J for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may 
not have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
If MoneyBoat has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan balance and treat any 
repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr J with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of the loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr J. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance, then MoneyBoat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr J bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in any discussions if he still needs time to pay. 
D. Whilst its fair that Mr Js credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So MoneyBoat should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Js credit file regarding the loan once it is repaid  and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same if MoneyBoat sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman