DRN-4166402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of a curtailment 
claim under their travel insurance policy and about its service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance through a packaged bank account. The insurer is UKI.
In February 2020 Mr B went to an Asian country where he had six months rental 
accommodation until April 2020. 
On 23 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO), formerly the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised all UK travellers abroad to return to the 
UK due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr B curtailed his trip and ended his rental agreement around 25 March 2020. He says the 
rental accommodation was about 200 miles from the airport and as information suggested 
that the countrys government was planning to restrict movement to different locations he 
decided to change to alternative accommodation near the airport. He rented the alternative 
accommodation on a monthly basis as he says he didnt know how long he would be there 
and the monthly rate was cheaper than the daily rate.
As Mr B couldnt give a months notice that he was vacating the original rental 
accommodation the accommodation provider refused to return his deposit. Mr B said that as 
hed expected that to happen hed refused to pay the final months rent that was due.
Mr B had hired a vehicle from 3 March to 16 April 2020 which he returned on 25 March. The 
provider returned the deposit but not the cost of the unused days.
Mr B says that despite many attempts he couldnt contact the airline with which he had a 
scheduled return flight airline in mid April 2020. He was able to change the return date of the 
flight to the first available date on the airlines on-line system, 4 April 2020, but the airline 
then suspended all flights indefinitely. He booked a new return flight with another airline to 
return on 1 April 2020 to a London airport, rather than his local airport. 
Mr B says no public transport was available for the journey from London to his home so a 
family member drove to collect him and return him home.
When Mr B arrived back in the UK he claimed on the travel insurance for the following costs:
£649 for unrefunded security deposit
£235 for alternative accommodation 
£719 for unused vehicle hire costs 26 March to 16 April 2020 
£100 to £175 for miscellaneous costs while abroad (travel to the capital, travelling to 
the airport to book flight, phone charges, labour costs and credit interest charges) 
£98 for the initial return flight change to 4 April 2020 
£558 for the new return flight to London 
£113 for his family members fuel to collect him from London and return him home.
Initially UKI didnt respond to the claim and Mr B complained to it about the delays and its 
lack of communication about his claim. He also complained that when hed spoken on the 
phone to a UKI representative who was working from home he could hear a young child and 
television sound in the background. Mr B believed that was inappropriate and he wanted to 
report the individual to social services. 
UKI accepted it has delayed in assessing the claim and paid Mr B £100 compensation as an 
apology. It acknowledged that it had sent him a further email, asking for information about 
the claim, when hed asked it not to send any more such emails. And UKI said the UK 
lockdown meant working from home arrangements were in place for its staff, which could 
result in some interruptions, but it believed the appropriate arrangements were in place and 
it wasnt appropriate to contact any external authorities such as social services.
UKI accepted the claim and in September 2020 paid some, but not all, of the costs Mr B had 
claimed. UKI applied the exchange rate it had recorded for the relevant time, which was 
different to the exchange rate Mr B had applied when calculating his costs. UKI paid Mr B:
£212.64 for the alternative accommodation
£649.45 for the unused car hire
£113 for the fuel costs.
UKI deducted the £50 claim excess, so paid a total of £925.09. It said that the other costs 
claimed werent covered.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with UKIs response and complained to us. 
While the complaint was with us UKI re-reviewed the claim and offered to pay the following 
further costs in addition to the costs it had already paid:
£353.61 for the relevant proportion of loss if Mr B had paid the final months rent for 
the original accommodation
11p more for the fuel costs in line with the receipt Mr B provided
1p extra for the vehicle hire due to a recalculation. 
UKI also said as Mr Bs original return flight and amended return flight were cancelled by the 
airline under consumer protection regulations he would be entitled to a full refund from the 
airline. If he couldnt get a refund Mr B would need to provide evidence of that and then UKI 
could consider his additional cost to return home, which would be the difference between the 
cost of his original return flight and the new return flight cost. Mr B would need to provide 
evidence of the cost of the original return flight so UKI could calculate the amount to pay.
UKI said there was no policy cover for the remaining costs claimed. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept UKIs revised settlement. In summary they said:Mr B was left abandoned abroad with no assistance from the airline, the government 
or UKI and he found UKIs response insulting.
UKI had applied the wrong exchange rate.
Mr B didnt pay the last months rent so that wasnt his loss, his loss was the security 
deposit which was a larger amount.
UKI had unfairly calculated the cost of his alternative accommodation.
He had no success in contacting the original airline, and hed told UKI to contact the 
airline on his behalf, to get a refund. He didnt know the cost of the original return 
flight and it wasnt relevant as his additional cost was the £558 for the new flight and 
the £98 he paid to amend the original flight which was also cancelled. 
The miscellaneous costs he incurred were essential and impossible to quantify as he 
couldnt obtain receipts in the panic at the time.
The UK government approved travel rate was 45p per mile so the cost of his family 
member collecting and returning him home was £355. Mr B also referred to a 
government subsistence rate and he said calculations using that rate meant the 
food he and his family member had when he was collected from London was £210. 
So Mr B had recalculated that the costs for him being collected and returning home 
should be £565.
UKI couldnt fairly deduct £50 from his claim payment.
Since the time of his claim Mr B believed UK inflation has been 22.5% so any 
additional payment from UKI should be inflated by 22.5 %.
UKI said Mr B hadnt previously claimed for the food costs for when hed been collected from 
London. It offered to pay £30 though noted Mr B had provided no receipts for those 
expenses.
Our investigator said that UKIs revised offer of settlement for the claim was reasonable and 
its payment of £100 compensation to acknowledge it could have handled the claim better 
was fair.
Mr and Mrs B disagree and want an ombudsman decision. They added:
Mr B been left to defend for himself abroad in a horrific situation. 
Hed used the least expensive way to get home from London and no taxi was 
available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Ive considered all the points Mr and Mrs B have made but I wont address all their points or 
answer all the questions theyve asked in my findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive 
made my decision and the key points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I partly uphold the complaint. I dont think UKIs initial settlement of the claim was 
reasonable. But I do think UKIs revised offer of settlement, made after Mr and Mrs B complained to us, is reasonable. And I think the £100 it paid for Mr and Mrs Bs distress and 
inconvenience due to its delays in handling the claim is fair. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr B found himself in a very difficult situation through no fault of his own. 
But insurance policies dont cover every situation a policyholder may themselves in. The 
risks and costs an insurer wants to insure are set out in the contract of insurance  the travel 
insurance policy.
Page 22 of this policy says there is cover for curtailment of a trip if the trip is cut short for one 
of the reasons the policy lists, which includes:
FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel or All 
but essential travel to your destination, provided that advice came into force after 
your departure on your trip.
When Mr B curtailed his trip the FCDO had advised against travel and had also advised UK 
travellers to return to the UK. So an insured event for cover happened and UKI should pay 
Mr Bs curtailment costs that are covered by the policy terms.
The policy details the costs that are covered for a curtailment claim:
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you have to cut your trip short, including:
Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
Unused car hire.
Unused excursions and activities.
Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
Unused car parking costs.
If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will 
pay reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel.
The value of used points or miles if you booked your flight or accommodation 
using Avios or a similar promotional scheme.
The policy also contains exclusions on cover and further conditions that apply to the claim 
which Ill refer to below.
Ive considered the costs Mr B wants UKI to pay under his claim. I think UKI have now 
offered a settlement that is fair and reasonable, based on the policy terms and the 
circumstances of this complaint, for the following reasons.
Exchange rates and inflation 
The policy says UKI will not pay for Any loss caused by changes in currency exchange 
rates. The policy doesnt provide cover for changes in inflation.
It would be reasonable for UKI to calculate and pay the costs for settlement based on the 
rate of exchange on the date Mr B paid for the expense. UKI hasnt seen any evidence from 
Mr B to support the exchange rate hes used for his calculation of costs claimed. So UKI 
applied the exchange rate it had recorded for the time of the loss and, although thats a less 
advantageous exchange rate for Mr B, thats reasonable for UKI to do.
Original accommodation
When Mr B left his original accommodation he decided not to pay the last months rent to the 
end of April 2020 because he thought he would have problems getting his security deposit 
refunded. The accommodation provider didnt refund the deposit. Mr B has claimed the cost of the security deposit. UKI said the loss of the deposit isnt an insured event under the 
policy terms. I think thats a reasonable conclusion for UKI to make as the policy terms only 
provide cover for unused accommodation costs, there is no cover for unreturned deposits. 
However, UKI have now offered to pay some of the unused cost of the accommodation. UKI 
know that Mr B didnt actually pay the last months rent to the end of April 2020. But it says if 
he had paid, that rent would have been covered under the policy as an unused 
accommodation cost. UKI has now offered to pay what would have been the rental costs 
from the date Mr B left the rental accommodation to the end of April 2020.
It think thats a very reasonable offer from UKI. Theres no policy cover for the deposit Mr B 
paid and theres no reasonable basis on which I can say UKI should pay that cost. But UKIs 
offer is a way to pay Mr B some costs for his unused accommodation in line with the policy 
terms. 
Additional accommodation
Mr B paid the cost of his alternative accommodation in the countrys currency which he 
converted to £235 when claiming.
In 2020 UKI paid the full amount Mr B claimed for this cost when unconverted. UKI paid a 
different amount in pounds sterling than Mr B had asked for because UKI used a different 
exchange rate than Mr B used. Ive explained above why the exchange rate UKI used was 
reasonable.
UKI has reasonably settled the claim for the additional accommodation costs.
Unused vehicle hire costs 
Mr B claimed the cost of his unused vehicle hire costs from 26 March to 16 April 2020 in the 
countrys currency which he converted to £719 when claiming.
In 2020 UKI paid the full amount Mr B claimed for this cost when unconverted. UKI paid a 
different amount in pounds sterling than Mr B had asked for because UKI used a different 
exchange rate than Mr B used. Ive explained above why the exchange rate UKI used was 
reasonable. And UKI has now offered to pay an additional 1p for the costs due to its 
recalculation.
UKI has reasonably settled the claim for the unused vehicle hire costs.
Miscellaneous costs
Theres no policy cover for the miscellaneous costs of travelling to the airport to book a flight, 
phone charges, labour costs and credit interest charges that Mr B claimed. So even if he had 
receipts for those costs UKI wouldnt have to pay those costs. And UKI doesnt have to pay 
Mr Bs travel to the capital city as he would have made the journey anyway when flying 
home.
The miscellaneous costs Mr B claimed arent usually covered by travel insurance policies 
and theres no basis on which I can fairly say UKI should reasonably pay those costs.
Additional flight
As Mr B had to return to the UK early and couldnt use his original return ticket the policy 
covers reasonable costs for additional travel. The policy also covers unused travel costs but 
the policy says under the curtailment section that UKI wont pay:
Your unused return travel tickets as a result of cutting short your journey if we have 
paid to get you home under this section.
UKI has offered to pay the additional costs incurred for Mr Bs return flight home, which will 
be the difference between the cost of his original return flight and his new return flight costs. 
I understand that UKI will include in the new flight costs the £98 Mr B initially paid to amend the date of the original flight which was also cancelled, as well as the £558 for the new flight, 
which would be reasonable.
But, as is usual in travel insurance policies, this policy contains an exclusion that says UKI 
wont pay: 
Expenses you can recover from elsewhere.
So UKI can reasonably require Mr B to show that he was unable to recover his cancelled 
flight costs from elsewhere. That means UKI can reasonably require Mr B to provide it with 
evidence that hes attempted but failed to get a refund from his original airline before UKI 
pay this part of the claim. 
In the circumstances I think its possible that the original airline has a legal obligation to 
refund the costs of the cancelled flights to Mr B. Thats not to say I think it would be 
reasonable for UKI to expect Mr B to take the original airline to court to get the refund. But 
Mr B does need to show hes made reasonable attempts to get a refund and there are 
processes on the Civil Aviation Authoritys website that may help him.
Mr B says hes told UKI to get the refund from the original airline on his behalf. But its Mr Bs 
responsibility to get evidence to support his claim and the policy says that when making a 
claim UKI can require Mr B to provide:
any other supporting documents that we reasonably ask for to support your claim.
Once UKI has seen the relevant evidence from Mr B it should pay the claim for the additional 
flight costs in line with the policy terms, as its agreed to do.
Fuel costs and subsistence costs 
Mr B claimed £113 for the fuel costs for his family member to collect him from London and 
return him home. In 2020 UKI paid the £113 Mr B claimed to settle the cost and now says it 
will pay an additional 11p to pay the cost in line with the amount on the receipts.
Mr B now says he wants UKI to pay the claim for fuel at what hes referred to as the 
governments travel expenses rate. UKI says the policy is an indemnity policy which 
reimburses the policyholders insured financial loss so it will only pay the fuel cost that the 
receipts evidence. I think thats a reasonable position for UKI to take. 
UKI has offered a reasonable settlement of Mr Bs claim for fuel costs.
Mr B has also now raised that UKI should pay for food he and his family member had on the 
journey from London to his home at a rate he says is in line with what he refers to as the 
government subsistence rate. I dont think the policy covers food costs in these 
circumstances. Even if it did the policy would only usually provide cover for Mr Bs actual 
food cost, not the cost for someone not insured under the policy. 
However, UKI has offered to pay £30 towards those food costs, without having seen 
evidence of those costs and despite those costs not being covered by the policy. So I think 
UKIs offer is very fair.
Excess
Mr B isnt happy UKI has deducted £50 excess from the settlement payment. The policy 
terms say UKI:
will deduct an excess of £50, with the exception of claims for children travelling with 
an insured person, where no excess will be payable.
So UKI acted within the policy terms and reasonably in deducting the £50 excess.UKIs service 
Mr B complained about UKIs delay in dealing with his claim. He also complained that when 
he spoke to a UKI claim adviser he could hear a young child and television sound in the 
background. 
Its not our statutory role to tell a business how to set up its staff working arrangements, at 
the time of the Covid-19 pandemic as in this case, or otherwise. 
I think the claim could have been handled better by UKI, which it accepts. Considering all the 
circumstances I think the £100 compensation it paid for Mr and Mrs Bs distress and 
inconvenience due to its service around the claim was fair. 
Mr B says he was abandoned abroad in March 2020 by the original airline, the government 
and UKI. UKI isnt responsible for how the airline or government acted. Ive not seen that 
Mr B has complained to UKI about its assistance at the time when he was abroad so I make 
no finding on UKIs assistance service to Mr B in this decision. If he wants to pursue that 
matter he will need to make a separate complaint to UKI and if the parties cant agree he can 
ultimately make a separate complaint to us.
Putting things right
UKI must pay the new offer its now made to settle the claim as Ive set out above, which is 
in addition to the settlement its already paid for the claim. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay the new offer its now made to settle the claim as Ive 
set out above, which is in addition to the settlement its already paid for the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman