DRN-4064799
The complaint
Mr T complains that eBay Commerce (eBay) hasnt help him during a dispute he had about 
an item he sold on eBay marketplace. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
eBay didnt authorise the chargeback of funds, the buyers bank did. So eBays role 
was to supply information to the bank to support Mr Ts case for defending the return 
of funds.
Although Mr T wanted to supply more information, Ive seen that information and 
much like the investigator, Im not convinced it wouldve resulted in a successfully 
defended chargeback. 
Mr T has only supplied information that he owned a mobile phone and reported it   
stolen. Having considered the information, I dont think its likely that this information 
would have resulted in a different outcome to the chargeback. This is because there 
isnt enough to clearly and persuasively evidence what Mr T sent was different to 
what he received back. So, I cant fairly say, on balance, that eBay are responsible 
for the outcome of the chargeback being decided against Mr T here.
I do think Mr T lost out on the opportunity to send eBay further information and this 
must have been frustrating. Given this, Im satisfied eBay should pay Mr T 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Having thought about the impact not sending this information back had on Mr T, Im 
satisfied £50 fairly compensates him for this.  
Putting things right
I instruct eBay Commerce UK Ltd to:
Pay Mr T £50 Compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman