DRN-1486878
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AmTrust handled his claim on his Family Legal Protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a Family Legal Protection insurance policy with AmTrust. In February 2018, he 
requested help in bringing a claim against his employers for discrimination and victimisation. 
This was given to solicitors, appointed by AmTrust, who didnt think there were reasonable 
prospects of success  a requirement of the terms and conditions of the policy. So AmTrust 
withdrew cover.  
In July 2019, Mr H confirmed that hed instructed his own solicitor, R, who considered the 
claim had reasonable prospects of success. Given the conflicting opinions, AmTrust 
instructed Counsel. 
Around the same time, Mr H told AmTrust he intended to bring a claim against his employer 
for unfair dismissal as well, which R thought had merit. AmTrusts in-house team disagreed, 
so it asked Counsel to consider the prospects of this matter at the same time. 
Counsel determined that the claim for discrimination and victimisation had reasonable 
prospects, so cover was provided, using R. However, Counsel didnt conclude that the claim 
for unfair dismissal was likely to succeed. 
R disagreed and made further submissions  in response, AmTrust agreed to go back to 
Counsel to advise solely on the unfair dismissal issue, with any supporting evidence R would 
like to submit. It also said it would ask Counsels advice on whether the matter is so 
inextricably linked that it should be treated as one claim.
R didnt believe they should be subject to AmTrusts choice of Counsel. They said their firm 
is an employment specialist and requested Amtrust pay for them to instruct Counsel. 
AmTrust explained their solicitors are also employment specialists  who found the claim 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success. And that Counsel may not the same person 
who gave advice before but, it would again request that the matter is considered by a 
specialist in employment law. It added that Mr H can fund Counsel of his choice should he 
wish.
Further to AmTrusts instruction, Counsel considered the matter in October 2019 and again 
didnt find that the unfair dismissal claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr H raised a complaint about how his unfair dismissal claim had been handled. He said his 
freedom to choose his own representatives had been fettered  because his 
representative's advice is subject to AmTrusts own legal advice. And that neither him nor his 
representative had input into the choice of Counsel  and AmTrusts choice wasnt a 
specialist in employment law. AmTrust didnt think it had handled the matter unreasonably, so Mr H brought his concerns 
to our service. Our investigator thought it was reasonable to rely on Counsels opinion and 
he didnt think Mr Hs freedom of choice had been fettered. 
Mr H remained unhappy. In summary, he said: 
The two matters are interlinked  and that if hes not represented for the dismissal 
part of his claim, itll damage the prospects of his existing claim for discrimination and 
victimisation. 
We looked at Appointed Representative too narrowly  it also includes his solicitors 
who has said there are reasonable prospects of success. 
The first time Counsel considered the matter, it didnt have all the appropriate 
documents. So it hasnt been looked at twice. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy  in particular those most relevant to 
this complaint:  
1. Representation 
(b) You are free to choose Your own qualified solicitor  Only once Your chosen 
solicitor has signed our terms and conditions, they will become the Appointed 
Representative subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. 
4. Prospects of Success
If at any time the Insured's Prospects of Success are less than 51% or that the 
interests of the Insured can be better served by other means and that on this basis 
We are to refuse any request for the support of Legal Proceedings and the incurring 
of any Legal Costs and Expenses, then We shall so state in writing to the Insured 
outlining the reasons. 
5. Control of the Claim 
(e) The Insured shall follow the advice of the Appointed Representative or Us in the 
handling of the claim in all respects.
Mr H says his freedom of choice over his solicitor was fettered, because they were subject to 
AmTrusts own legal advice. 
Im satisfied AmTrust acted in accordance with their own terms in allowing Mr H to appoint 
his own solicitor, R. And in doing so, R became the Appointed Representative under the 
policy. 
But, being Mr Hs Appointed Representative doesnt mean their word is final and binding. I 
note the terms require Mr H to follow Rs advice or AmTrusts. Here, AmTrusts in-house 
legal team disagreed with Rs assessment on prospects  given how this is a requirement for 
cover, I think its understandable AmTrust raised concerns. To resolve this, it instructed 
Counsel to advise on the matter, which it paid for. This isnt an unusual or unreasonable step to take  to obtain Counsels opinion to provide 
finality. Indeed, I note this same process previously worked to Mr Hs advantage  when his 
solicitors disagreed with the original Appointed Representatives opinion on his 
discrimination and victimisation claim, AmTrust similarly instructed Counsel who found in Mr 
Hs favour. 
I recognise Mr H and R have concerns that AmTrust instructed Counsel; R wanted to do it. 
Ideally, both parties wouldve agreed on a Barrister. But ultimately, AmTrust paid for the 
opinion, so I dont think its unreasonable it made the instruction. And I can see why using 
the previous Chambers appeared the least controversial option, given that the previous 
opinion was in Mr Hs favour. 
Mr H is unhappy with Counsels level of expertise in employment law. Ive seen AmTrusts 
instruction  it asked for an employment specialist and the Chambers gave it to this 
particular Barrister. So I dont think AmTrust did anything wrong here. I realise shes not 
listed as an employment specialist online, but I dont think the website is conclusive of her 
ability. Either way, its not for me to rule on the quality of Counsels opinion. Should Mr H 
have concerns, he's free to obtain a legal assessment from Counsel of his choice at his own 
cost. Or he can see if he can pursue elsewhere i.e. the Legal Ombudsman Service. 
Finally, I understand Mr H thinks that his claims are so inextricably linked, they must be 
considered together. I can see AmTrust instructed Counsels opinion on this point as well  
and she didnt come back to say the matter must be treated as one. Mr H should note that if 
this was looked at together, it runs the risk of negatively affecting his prospects on the entire 
claim to below 51% and, therefore, his cover being withdrawn, as well as affecting the claim 
limits. So while I recognise why Mr H would like to be represented for all of his claims 
against his former employer, I dont think AmTrust acted unreasonably by keeping these 
matters separate  indeed, this may be to Mr Hs advantage. 
So, in all, I dont think AmTrust have unreasonably handled this claim for expenses to bring 
an unfair dismissal claim. I know this will come as disappointing news to Mr H, but I wont be 
asking AmTrust to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman