DRN-4091040
The complaint
Mr P complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as FLOW (LV) 
cancelled his motor insurance policy without telling him, which resulted in him being stopped 
by the police.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of it below, and they form part of this final decision.
In June 2022 Mr P took out a motor policy with LV. In October 2022 he was unfortunately 
pulled over by the police for driving without insurance  as his policy had been cancelled by 
this time for non-payment. He contacted LV to complain and evidenced he had enough 
money in his account for the payment to come out.
After some confusion, LV responded to Mr Ps complaint explaining hed have to talk to his 
bank about the payments failing, as thats not something theyd take responsibility for. They 
added the type of policy Mr P had was an online policy only. And theyd contacted Mr P by 
his preferred method of communication (which was email) and also told him to mark their 
emails as from a safe sender to stop them going into his junk folder. Overall, they felt like 
theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when they cancelled it  so 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr P asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
ultimately upheld his complaint saying LV should have used more than one method of 
contact to tell Mr P about the possible cancellation of his policy  and had they done so, then 
she thought the payment would have been made and the policy wouldnt have been 
cancelled. 
Mr P accepted this, but LV didnt. They said the policy is a 100% online policy with contact 
only through Mr Ps online account, or by email. LV said when accepting the policy Mr P 
agreed to these communication methods. They added Mr P had to ensure all payments were 
made and the onus was on him  and there was a poor payment history as August and then 
Septembers payments both initially failed. And Mr P was able to check his emails to pay the 
August payment, so it was his responsibility to check Septembers payment had been made 
 including checking his emails.
Our Investigator still upheld the complaint. She noted their points but felt given the potentially 
serious consequences of driving without insurance  which is a criminal offence  it was their 
responsibility to have tried to contact Mr P by more than one method.
LV still didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do agree with our Investigator that generally contacting a policyholder by more than one 
method of contact is likely to be more effective. But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont 
currently plan to uphold this complaint.
I do agree with our Investigator that using more than one method of communication, such as 
writing or texting as well, would be more effective. I feel this is especially important given its 
a criminal offence to drive without insurance. But, here, LV only emailed Mr P, so I need to 
look at everything that happened to determine if theyve ultimately cancelled Mr Ps policy 
fairly.
When Mr P first took out the insurance, hes explained he couldnt use his own debit card 
because of problems with his bank allowing debit card payments to go through. We asked 
Mr P for evidence of this, to understand the impact this had. The information Mr P has 
provided shows the issues with his debit card were resolved in June 2022. So, shouldnt 
have impacted on the cancellation of the policy in September 2022.
Mr P made Junes payment using a family members card details, and then Julys payment 
was fine as well. There were though further problems in August 2022.
Ive seen the payment for 1 August 2022 didnt go through, and LV contacted Mr P to let him 
know this, and said theyd try and take the payment again 8 August 2022. LV tried to take 
this payment, but it still didnt go through  so they emailed Mr P again the same day, and 
said if payment isnt made by 15 August 2022 then the policy would be cancelled. They also 
told Mr P it was illegal to drive without insurance at this time.
The payment was made on 10 August 2022  and Mr P has told us he received the emails 
which is why he made the payment. Hes also told us when making this payment in 
August 2022, that he changed the card on the account for LV to take the payment. So, as far 
as Mr P knew, this meant the payments would be taken in future.
We asked LV about the process of updating card details on their system for a recurring 
payment. They said this has to be done separately, their system would show this  and it 
doesnt show that Mr P did update his card details.
To support this, LV have provided the log on details for when Mr P accessed his account 
online. This shows He logged on at 2.26pm on 10 August, and logged off at 2.27pm  so, 
the maximum possible time he could have been logged in for was under two minutes 
(between 2.26pm and zero seconds, and 2.27pm and 59 seconds). In this time, Mr P would 
have needed to make a single one-off payment  and then set up the same card in a 
separate process for recurring payments.
LV have a video online to show how to change your card details for recurring payments. It 
seems relatively straightforward and probably wouldnt take very long. But I think the 
timeframe for Mr P to have done both actions  make the individual payment needed and set 
up the card payment  would be cutting it quite fine in the time he was online. And, LVs 
online video supports their claim this is a separate process, so I think this is something 
theyd likely have evidence of if Mr P had done it as he said.
Given the above, Im not currently satisfied Mr P did update his card details as hes said he 
did. 
I do though still need to be satisfied LV handled the cancellation of the policy correctly  
despite this.So, although Mr P made a manual payment in August, his and LVs expectation was the 
payment should be made by a recurring payment on 1 September 2022.
Part of Mr Ps complaint here is that he had enough money in his bank account for the 
payment to be made  LV have said the payment was rejected by Mr Ps bank, so not their 
fault.
Given Ive found Mr P didnt update his card details with LV, I think their argument the 
payment was rejected by Mr Ps bank is likely correct  because LV were attempting to take 
the payment from a card Mr P had intended to remove. And as Im satisfied they tried to take 
the payment from that card, because Mr P didnt update it, then it doesnt matter what 
amount he had in his account  because the payment attempt wasnt made using the correct 
details Mr P had intended to add.
When this payment failed, LV emailed Mr P on 1 September 2022 and again on 
8 September 2022. Both times, they told Mr P if they couldnt take payment the insurance 
would be cancelled on 15 September 2022  but, they also explained to him its not too late, 
and he can log in and make payment. These contacts also tell Mr P its illegal to drive 
without insurance.
On 15 September 2022, as no payment had been made, LV emailed Mr P again to confirm 
the insurance had been cancelled due to no payment  and again reminded him that its 
illegal to drive without insurance.
The policy terms make it clear if no payment is made when expected, then LV are entitled to 
give seven days notice of cancelling the policy.
So, at face value, LV have done everything they should have done. They tried to take the 
payment, and when it failed, they emailed Mr P on two occasions giving at least seven days 
notice before then cancelling the policy  and telling him theyd done that.
Mr P says the emails from LV went into his spam folder. LV say Mr P received their August 
contacts so should have received the September emails. But in any event, they advise 
customers to add LVs email address to their spam folder to prevent these issues.
It seems odd to me that Mr P would be able to receive Augusts emails directly, but 
Septembers emails went into his spam folder. So, at face value, Mr P should have received 
the emails  and as LV said they did advise him to add their details to his safe senders 
email list. Whether he did or didnt though, the test I need to apply is whether LV have acted 
fairly. By writing to him on two occasions on 1 and 8 September explaining no payment has 
been made and giving notice of cancelling the policy  and then writing to him on 
15 September when they had cancelled the policy  theyve done everything they should 
have.
To uphold this complaint Id need to be satisfied LV have made an error leading to Mr P 
being pulled over by the police. Based on what Ive seen, I cant say they did make an error 
with his payments, nor with communicating with him about the status of his policy. 
Responses to my provisional decision
LV replied and said they had nothing further to add.Mr P didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As LV didnt have anything to add, and Mr P didnt reply by the deadline, Ive seen no reason 
to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision  and find LV havent made an 
error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman