DRN-2116619
The complaint
Miss W says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream provided four loans to Miss W as shown in the table below, repayable in 
weekly instalments over six months or so. 
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Total* 
Monthly Repayment
114/05/2019 Outstanding 24 £200.00 £63.95
217/06/2019 Outstanding 24 £300.00 £167.01
318/06/2019 Outstanding 24 £140.00 £223.51
426/07/2019 Outstanding 24 £50.00 £238.95
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Lending Stream looked at Miss Ws complaint it upheld her complaint in part. Lending 
Stream didnt agree that loans 1-3 shouldnt have been provided. But it accepted that it 
mightnt have been a good idea to provide loan 4 to her. So Lending Stream offered to put 
things right for Miss W in the way that we would expect a lender to do. 
Miss W was unhappy with this response as she didnt feel it went far enough to resolve her 
complaint. So she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator came to the same conclusions overall as Lending Stream about this 
complaint. Our adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say Lending Stream acted 
unfairly when it provided loans 13. But he felt that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided 
loan 4 to Miss W and he set out the steps it should take to put things right for Miss W (which 
Lending Stream had previously offered to do)
Miss W still disagrees with this outcome. She says we should be upholding her complaint 
about loans 2 and 3 as well as she feels the same circumstances apply. And, if Ive correctly 
understood, shes unhappy that Lending Stream repeatedly texted her to say she was 
eligible for more borrowing. 
So her complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. Having 
done so, and independently looked at Miss Ws complaint afresh, Ive come to the same 
view as our adjudicator. 
Heres why I say this.
These loans all looked affordable for Miss W, based on what shed said to Lending Stream 
about her finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments. Ive thought carefully about what Miss W has said in response to the adjudicators 
recommendation in relation to these first three loans and I've taken into consideration the 
credit information shes sent us. 
Lending Stream made its lending decisions based on the information Miss W provided and 
what its own checks showed  and I dont think that was unreasonable. Given what Miss W 
told Lending Stream about her finances and what was apparent about Miss Ws 
circumstances and her borrowing history at that time with Lending Stream, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss W for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. In 
other words, I cant fairly say that Lending Stream shouldve seen the credit information that 
Miss W has sent us before agreeing to provide loans 1, 2 and 3  or that Lending Stream did 
anything wrong when it provided these loans to Miss W without having this information. 
So I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be able to say 
that Lending Stream shouldnt have lent Miss W any of the first three loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 4. At 
this point, I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at 
Miss Ws borrowing record that she was likely having money problems. 
I say this because when she asked for loan 4, Miss W already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Lending Stream, all taken out in the space of just over a month. And 
now she was asking for further borrowing, less than three months after shed taken her first 
Lending Stream loan. 
And even though loan 4 was for just £50, and Miss Ws smallest single loan, I think Lending 
Stream is right to say that the signs were it probably shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Lending Stream shouldve 
realised that Miss Ws borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. 
I think Miss Ws loan history was a clear warning sign that despite what shed told Lending 
Stream about her finances she was having serious problems managing her money.
So, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about loan 4 only.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss W has told us, including what shes said in 
response to our adjudicators view. But I dont think Lending Stream did anything wrong 
when it provided the first three loans or that sending her text messages about being eligible 
for new borrowing is a reason for me to uphold her complaint about loans 2 and 3 (or 
loan 1). 
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think Lending Stream had any reason to think the first 
three loans werent likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss W  or that Lending Stream 
shouldve asked more questions or done better checks before providing loans 1-3. So thats 
why Im just upholding Miss Ws complaint about loan 4.
Lending Stream has said it will extend support to Miss W by working with her to set up an 
affordable payment arrangement. And Miss W can expect Lending Stream (or any third 
party) to discuss payment options with her and treat her fairly and sympathetically if she 
needs further time to pay what she still owes.
If Miss W would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold outstanding debts then it should buy back the outstanding debts 
it sold if able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy 
the debts back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss W having made overpayments 
then these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in 
"A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss W.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Ws credit file for loan 4. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ws complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman