DRN-3760163
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) unfairly declined the claim she 
made on her critical illness policy.
What happened
Miss A bought a critical illness policy from SWL at the start of 2015.  The policy provided for 
Miss A to be paid a lump sum in the event of such an illness (as defined in the policy terms) 
being diagnosed.
Towards the end of 2016, Miss A began suffering from pain in her back and knees.  This led 
to her having surgery on her back and to the replacement of one of her knees.  Despite the 
surgeries, Miss A has continued to suffer from significant pain, which she finds limits her 
daily life.
Miss A first contacted SWL to find out if she could make a claim in 2017.  She was told at 
that time that she didnt satisfy any of the definitions applicable to the policy.
In early 2021, Miss A contacted SWL again to make a claim under the total permanent 
disability section of the policy.  She told SWL about her surgeries and the limitations she 
faced as a result.  SWL sent her a claim form and invited Miss A to submit evidence to 
support what she said.
SWL considered Miss As claim and decided they needed to get a report from an 
occupational therapist to make a decision.  Once they received the report, and had reviewed 
her medical history, SWL wrote to Miss A declining the claim.
SWL explained that Miss A must be unable to do at least three of the six tasks set out in the 
policy to qualify for the total permanent disability benefit.  And there must be no prospect of 
her being able to do them - without help  in the future.  
SWL said the medical evidence showed a good post-operative outcome to the surgeries.  
But they noted Miss A had had no post-operative treatment or rehabilitation to increase 
function since.  Nor had she consulted either her GP or surgeon about further treatments.  
So SWL said they couldnt be satisfied her disability was permanent.  And they said that the 
occupational therapy report had shown Miss A could do four of the six tasks unaided.
Miss A challenged SWLs decision.  SWL considered the challenge.  But they told Miss A 
they werent satisfied shed exhausted all treatment options.  So their decision to decline her 
claim was unchanged.
Miss A wasnt satisfied with SWLs reply and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded SWL has assessed Miss As claim in line with the policy terms 
and so it was fair for them to decline it.
Miss A didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.  I know shell be disappointed by my 
decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
I was very sorry to read about the considerable pain Miss A experiences.  I have no doubt 
that has a significant impact on her life.  And I understand she wants to do what she can to 
get some additional help to manage this.
But, from reading her response to the investigators view, it appears Miss A is under the 
impression the policy operates in a similar way to private health insurance and will provide 
funds for her to seek further treatment.  Thats not the case.  
This claim was made on a critical illness policy.  Critical illness policies are designed to 
provide a lump sum payment if the policyholder is diagnosed with one of the illnesses listed 
in the policy.  They may also provide for payment  as this one does  if the policy holder 
becomes totally and permanently disabled.  This is the section under which Miss A claimed.
Ive read the policy terms.  The definition of Total Permanent Disability is:
the loss of the physical ability through an illness or injury to do at least 3 of the 6 work tasks 
listed below ever again.
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout life 
with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or you expect to retire.
You must need the help or supervision of another person and be unable to perform the task 
on your own, even with the use of special equipment routinely available to help and having 
taken any appropriate prescribed medication.
The work tasks are:
(i) Walking  the ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface.
(ii) Climbing  the ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs and down again, using the handrail if 
needed.
(iii) Lifting  the ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 60 
seconds before replacing the object on the table.
(iv) Bending  the ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again.
(v) Getting in and out of a car  the ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out again.
(vi) Writing  the manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a 
desktop personal computer keyboard.
I think that term is clear and specific.  And Im satisfied SWL assessed Miss As claim 
against the criteria set out.  They obtained a report from her GP about her conditions. And 
they explained fully in the letter to Miss A declining her claim why they didnt consider her 
disability to be permanent.  
And SWL appointed a qualified occupational therapist to report on Miss As ability to 
complete the six tasks set out in the policy.  The therapists report shows Miss A couldnt 
complete two of them  as opposed to the three required to satisfy the condition.I can see Miss A told our investigator she was still consulting doctors and may be able to 
provide more recent evidence about her conditions and the investigator suggested she may 
want to make a new claim if her situation has changed.
I agree with that suggestion.  But Im considering the claim Miss A made in 2021.  Im 
satisfied that SWLs assessment of that claim was thorough and in line with the policy terms.  
And that means I dont think they need to do any more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint about Scottish Widows 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman