DRN-2239949
The complaint
Miss B and Mr J complain about how Paragon Finance PLC managed their account as they 
expected to have been able to clear the account by November 2020 but are left with a 
shortfall. Miss B and Mr J want their balance amended to what it should be.
What happened
Miss B and Mr J took out a secured loan with a lender and this loan was transferred to 
Paragon in September 2011 and it was responsible for administering the loan until May 2019 
when the loan was sold on again. Miss B and Mr J expected to pay the loan off in November 
2020 but there was still an outstanding balance and they believe that this is the result of 
Paragon mismanaging the account. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as he didnt believe that Paragon had done anything wrong and that the 
balance increased because as Miss B and Mr J werent making their payments on time, the 
interest on the arrears increased their outstanding balance. 
Miss B and Mr J disagreed saying in summary that from a statement they have its clear that 
it cant be the interest on the arrears thats causing the outstanding balance to increase as 
much as it has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive access to various documentation on this account. Miss B and Mr J expected that this 
account would be paid off by November 2020 and cant understand why not and believe that 
this is through the mismanagement of the account by Paragon. This loan would have been 
established on the basis that if Miss B and Mr J paid off their monthly instalments on time 
and in full that the instalments would have allowed the account to be paid off by a certain 
date. I understand that after a large payment by Miss B and Mr J that this was intended to 
happen in November 2020.  But unfortunately, payments were regularly missed, and the 
account was in arrears for long periods. I have contact notes going back to 2011 which has 
an arrears column and from 2012 the account is almost continually in arrears and sometimes 
substantially so. For example, at the beginning of 2014, I see an arrears figure of £2,334, in 
March 2,734 and then in April £2,731. On the other hand, I do see that Miss B and Mr J 
would then make efforts to bring the arrears figure down.
The problem is that if the arrears arent paid it affects the outstanding balance. It will 
increase more than was anticipated by additional interest because the expected payment 
has been missed. So even if the arrears are paid the outstanding balance will have 
increased which means that the payments which were intended to repay the balance at the 
end of term will be insufficient to do so. Thats what happened here. Paragon has provided 
us with a full transaction history. If the account hadnt fallen into arrears, I would have 
expected the account to have been paid off as Miss B and Mr J anticipated. But the reason 
its not and there is an outstanding balance is the effect of the interest on the arrears 
increasing the outstanding balance.
I see in the transaction history that from about March 2016 that Paragon began to separate 
interest on the arrears from interest on the outstanding balance. That is the first time I can 
see two interest accruals in the month. Previously the interest on the outstanding balance 
and interest on arrears had been amalgamated into one interest accrual figure. It still meant 
that the outstanding balance increased because of both types of arrears, but on its system, 
Paragon now began to account for interest on the arrears separately. But this only began in 
March 2016 so that separate accounting for interest on the arrears only began then. That 
would mean that if an account was produced showing interest on arrears its likely only be 
showing the interest on those arrears from March 2016. So, that may explain why Miss B 
and Mr J have difficulties understanding the statement from their lender dated 9 October 
2020. Although thats not from Paragon and so not part of this complaint, my understanding 
is that the interest on overdue payments figure will only relate to more recent arrears and 
historical arrears will be in the outstanding balance figure. 
By continually running the account in arrears, Miss B and Mr J couldnt pay off the mortgage 
when they hoped to. In order to do so, they would have had to substantially increase their 
payments. Ive looked at whether they could have done that. I see an arrangement letter 
dated the January 2018 where the outstanding balance is £15,004.00 and the arrears are 
£967.30. The proposed arrangement is to pay £433 per month until October and then £400 
from November onwards. If that was maintained I would anticipate 10 payments of £433 and 
24 of £400 or in total £13,930. But even that wouldnt insure payment in full by November 
2020 as there would be interest charged each month on the outstanding balance as per the 
terms of the agreement. In order to get to November 2020 as an end date from January 
2018, Miss B and Mr J would have had to substantially increase their payments. But as it 
turned out, they were unable to maintain those payments under the arrangement that they 
hoped they could pay. That being the case, it was clearly not possible for them to make the 
substantially higher payments to clear the balance when they had hoped to do. Although I 
understand Miss B and Mr Js disappointment, Im not persuaded that Paragon administered 
this account unfairly and so, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman