DRN-2424817
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has treated him unfairly 
following a claim he made on his car insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to partially uphold this 
complaint in November 2020. Heres what I said in my provisional decision.
What happened 
Mr H insured his car through Admiral. He made a claim in September 2019 because 
the catalytic converter was stolen from his car. Admiral deemed the car a total loss 
on the basis it wasnt economical to repair it.
At the time, Mr H accepted that the car would be treated as a total loss. There was a 
disagreement over the amount to be paid in settlement of the claim. But this was 
dealt with as a separate complaint by our service, so I wont be considering Mr Hs 
concerns about the valuation of his car as part of this complaint.
Admiral paid Mr H what it considered to be market value for his car. It offered him the 
opportunity to bring a new car into his policy, but Mr H declined this. 
As there was no car to insure, Admiral cancelled Mr Hs policy but kept the full annual 
premium. Mr H doesnt agree that this is fair. He says Admiral was only on risk for 13 
days, so he feels it should return the premium for the remainder of his policy year. He 
has also now complained that his car should not have been classed as a total loss. 
He says it would have only cost £800 to repair which is significantly less than the 
amount Admiral paid him as market value.
Admiral says Mr Hs car was deemed a total loss by its in-house engineer and this 
was accepted by Mr H. In terms of the premiums, Admiral says it agreed to insure 
Mr Hs car, and pay any claims, provided he paid the premium quoted from the 
outset. It says this premium represents the risk it agreed to underwrite, and as it has 
settled a claim, no refund of the premium is due. It has pointed to its general 
conditions, which it says explain this.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the annual premium accounts for the risk Admiral accepted. She 
explained that had Mr H not paid the premium, Admiral wouldnt be expected to settle 
his claim as his policy wouldnt exist. She pointed out that insurers retaining the full 
premium following a total loss claim is common in the insurance industry.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided to 
partially uphold it. Ill explain why.
Decision to cancel policy and retain premiums
Mr Hs policy started on 23 August 2019 and he made a claim for the theft of his 
catalytic converter on 5 September 2019. Mr Hs car was assessed, remotely, by 
Admirals in-house engineer and deemed to be Category N total loss. This was 
based on the age of the car and the type and level of damage to it. Category N 
means the damage is non-structural and can be repaired, but the insurer has decided 
not to repair it. 
From what Ive seen, Mr H accepted the decision to declare the car a total loss at the 
time. Admiral settled his claim by paying what it determined was market value for the 
car. The car has since been disposed of.
Mr H has since complained that his car should not have been declared a total loss. Ill 
deal with this point separately, later in this decision.
Because Mr H accepted that his car was a total loss, Admiral cancelled his policy and 
says no refund of premiums is due. It says this is explained in the cancellation rights 
section and the general conditions of the policy booklet which state:
If you have made a claim, or a claim has arisen during the period of 
insurance for your car, your cars part of the premium is due, and no refund 
will be given, regardless of the payment method. If this policy has only one 
car on cover, then the total premium is due, and no refund will be given, 
regardless of the payment method.

Should your car be stolen and/or deemed a total loss, we will cancel your 
policy without prior notice by writing to you last known address. We may 
deduct any outstanding premium and charges owed from any claim 
settlement we make to you. If your car is a total loss please refer to General 
Condition 10.

10. Total loss of your car
If your car is beyond economic repair, all cover, including the driving of other 
cars extension if applicable, will be cancelled for you and any other drivers on 
the policy. Once we make a payment to you, your car will become our 
property. We will deduct any outstanding premium and charges owed from 
any claim settlement we make to you.
So, because Mr H didnt initially dispute that his car should be treated as a total loss, 
and considering the points above, Admirals decision to cancel Mr Hs policy and 
retain the full annual premium was in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. 
But in addition to being in line with the terms and conditions, I also need to decide 
whether Admirals decision is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
When an insurer deems a car a total loss, I would expect it to offer its policyholder 
the option of bringing a replacement car onto the policy first, (subject to its 
underwriting criteria) before deciding to cancel it. This is so that the remainder of the 
policy term can be used. I can see Admiral did offer Mr H this option, but he didnt want to accept it. So, as 
there was no longer a car to insure, I think Admirals decision to cancel Mr Hs policy 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances  at the time. 
In terms of Admirals decision to retain the full annual premium, Mr Hs car insurance 
policy is an annual contract with the premium payable from the outset. The premium 
represents the cost of the risk Admiral calculates it will be exposed to during the 
policy year. In this case, Mr H made a claim on his policy and Admiral has settled it. 
So, Mr Hs policy has responded as it was supposed to, regardless of how early in 
the policy year the claim was made. 
So, in the circumstances of his complaint I think its fair for Admiral to retain the full 
annual premium. I say this because Mr H has made a successful claim on the policy 
and Admiral isnt able to recover the costs of the claim from any third party. 
Total loss
Mr H has complained that his car should not have been declared a total loss. Hes 
provided a repair estimate from a garage, dated 5 September 2019, which states his 
car could have been repaired for around £800. This is significantly less than the 
value placed on his car by Admiral  around £3,000.
Admirals in-house engineer calculated the cost to repair the damage would be 
around £2,150. However, there is no report, no breakdown of parts required or any 
additional comments to support how this figure was reached.
Because the information here is contradictory, Ive done some independent 
investigation online. From what Ive seen, the quote from Mr Hs garage seems to be 
more accurate than Admirals estimate. I say this because Ive been able to get an 
online quote for the work for around the same price as his garage quoted. I also note 
that Mr Hs garage actually inspected his car, whereas Admirals valuation was 
completed remotely. So, based on everything Ive seen, Im minded to agree that it 
wasnt fair for Admiral to declare Mr Hs car as a total loss.
When a business has done something wrong, as I believe Admiral has here, our 
usual approach is to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if 
things hadnt gone wrong. The difficulty here is that Mr H accepted the total loss 
claim and his car has since been disposed of. So, it isnt possible to put him back in 
the position he would have been in, had Admiral offered to settle the claim by 
repairing the car. In addition, I also need to consider that Mr H initially accepted that 
the car would be treated as a total loss and has already had the benefit of the claim 
settlement Admiral paid him. Admiral also offered Mr H the opportunity to bring 
another car onto the policy before it cancelled it  Which Mr H declined.
That said, regardless of the fact that Mr H accepted the total loss initially, I think 
Admirals engineer was wrong to recommend the car be treated as a total loss  
based on the evidence Ive seen. And because of this, I think Mr H has suffered 
some avoidable distress and inconvenience. So, I think Admiral should pay Mr H 
£200 to compensate him for this.
As I believe that the decision to declare the car a total loss was unfair, I also think 
Admiral should ensure that Mr H doesnt have a cancellation marker recorded 
against him, on any internal or external databases, for cancellation of this policy.I said I was intending to direct Admiral to pay Mr H £200 compensation and to remove any 
record of the policy cancellation from the relevant databases. I asked both sides to send me 
any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider before I reached a final 
decision.
Admiral responded to say that it didnt think I should be considering the decision to declare 
the car a total loss as part of this complaint. It says Mr H didnt complain about this to 
Admiral and it didnt address this issue in its final response letter. It said if Mr H wanted to 
complain about this, he would need to raise a new complaint.
Mr H responded and raised concerns about his motor legal protection and about Admiral 
offering £25 policy rebates to customers, due to reduced usage during the pandemic. He 
explained that he felt the £200 compensation wasnt enough and that he felt he should 
receive a higher proportion of his premium back. Mr H also explained that the year of the 
incident was a very difficult year for him, for personal reasons, and reiterated the concern he 
had with the valuation placed on his car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered all the new comments and evidence sent in response to my 
provisional decision.
 
For ease of reference, Ill address the responses from each side separately.
Admirals response
Admiral feels its unfair for me to consider Mr Hs concerns with the decision to declare his 
car a total loss. It says Mr H didnt raise this as a complaint point with Admiral and the final 
response letter issued only covers the fact Admiral retained the full premium.
I disagree with Admirals argument here. I can see that Mr H raised his concerns about the 
decision to declare his car a total loss in a letter he wrote to Admiral on 22 November 2019. 
He said:
That car should not have been deemed a write off. I thought it was rather strange 
when your operative told me that the repairs would cost about £2000 when it should 
cost less than £800.
The collector from  asked me for the service manual ect (sic) and confirmed to me 
that the car was going to auction. Probably one of you will be making from this 
incident more than the offered settlement.
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) defines a complaint as, any oral or written 
expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about 
the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service
In my view, Mr H made a complaint about this issue when he wrote to Admiral on 
22 November 2019. I dont think the fact that Admiral failed to log his expression of 
dissatisfaction as a complaint or to respond to it in its final response letter means that it is 
unfair for me to consider it.Admiral issued its final response letter to Mr H on 6 February 2020. So, it had longer than 
eight weeks to investigate and respond to Mr Hs complaint about the decision to declare his 
car a total loss. Therefore, I think it is fair and reasonable for me to consider this issue as 
part of this complaint.
 
Mr Hs response
Mr H provided some comments on his motor legal protection and about a policy rebate 
scheme he says Admiral are undertaking. These are new issues that havent been 
complained about with Admiral. So, unlike the issue covered above, I agree that it wouldnt 
be fair for me to consider these issues as part of this complaint. If Mr H wishes to raise a 
complaint about these issues, he should contact Admiral directly.
Mr H has also reiterated some concerns about the amount he received for his car. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, this issue has already been looked at by our service 
under a separate complaint. So, Im not able to consider this concern as part of this 
complaint.
Mr H has argued that Admirals in-house engineer shouldnt be allowed to make a decision 
to declare the car a total loss without inspecting it. In my experience, it isnt particularly 
unusual for desk top assessments to be carried out  in certain circumstances. But in the 
circumstances here, I agree that the decision to declare the car a total loss was likely unfair. 
This is why I provisionally decided to award some compensation.
  
I fully appreciate that 2019 was a very difficult year for Mr H and I sympathise. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Mr H initially accepted the decision to declare his car a 
total loss and he has had the benefit of the claim settlement. So, when arriving at an amount 
of compensation I think is fair, I have to consider all of the circumstances. Having done so, I 
remain of the view £200 is sufficient to fairly compensate Mr H for the impact Admirals error 
has had on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must put things right by:
 
Paying Mr H £200 compensation.
Removing any record of the policy cancellation from any internal or external 
databases.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman