DRN-1275801
 
complaint
Miss R complain that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
MBNA Limited (MBNA).
background
Miss R took out a credit card with MBNA in 2001. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy which would have contributed towards her repayments on the card for up to 12 
months at a time if she was made redundant. It would have also paid out indefinitely while 
Miss R was off work sick (or until the balance at the point of claim had been paid off.
Miss R says the policy was added without her knowledge or consent. She says she wasnt 
given any information about the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. Miss R disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss R applied for her credit card by completing an application form and returning it to 
MBNA by post. MBNA has been able to provide a copy of this form. Theres a separate 
section for PPI and it provides a clear choice about taking it. Theres a tick in the box to say 
Miss R wanted it and Miss R has signed the form.
So, while Miss R cant remember doing so, I am satisfied she bought the PPI knowing she 
had a choice about it. 
MBNA didnt provide Miss R with a personalised recommendation to buy the policy, so it 
didnt have to make sure it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Miss R 
enough information to make her own informed decision about the PPI.
I dont think MBNA did provide Miss R with all the information she needed. For example, 
theres nothing on the application form to explain how much it would pay in the event of a 
claim, or any of the restrictions to the cover.
But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Miss Rs complaint. I need to consider 
whether, if Miss R had all the information she needed, shed have acted differently and not 
bought the policy.Looking at Miss Rs circumstances at the time of sale I dont think Miss R would have acted 
differently. I say this because:
Miss R was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Miss R most likely only had statutory sick pay. The policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and for as long as she was off work (or until the balance at the point 
of claim was paid off). Miss R later told us that she did have some sick pay from her 
employer, but she hasnt been able to provide evidence of this, so I havent been 
able to take it into account;
Miss R didnt have any savings, and although she may have been entitled to some 
redundancy pay this wouldnt have been more than the equivalent of a few weeks 
pay. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Miss R was made 
redundant. And it would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Miss R 
received.
The policy was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty.
On balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Miss R lost out as a result of 
anything MBNA did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint, so it follows that MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman