DRN-4011153
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited (Wren) 
not to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB ) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says that Wren didnt fully consider his circumstances. In particular, it 
didnt look properl y at his health situation. He thin ks the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C approached Wren in 2021 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr C paid a 
fee of £800 plus VAT for this advice. I understand the fee was reduced by what Wren 
described as an effective subsidy it received from its wider commercial arrangements. Which 
included an agreement about costs with the employer where the scheme was held.    
Wren completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that: 
He was aged 50, married and had two children. One of these was dependent but  
wouldnt be for too much longer.
He was employed and earning around £75,000 year. Mrs C was also employed.
They owned their home which was mortgage free.
They held around £100,000 in savings and over £600,000 in investments.
Mr C had benefits in a defined-contribution (DC) scheme and a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). These were worth around £620,000 in total.
Mrs C held DB scheme benefits from two periods of employment and a SIPP worth  
just under £95,000.
Mr C had a chronic medical condition that he was receiving treatment for. 
Mr C had been given a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £384,931 for this DB 
scheme. 
Wren also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it said was five on a  
scale of one to seven. This was a relatively high tolerance to risk and Mr C confirmed that he 
understood this, and that he had the capacity to take this risk. 
In October 2021, Wren advised Mr C not to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
The DB scheme would be his only guaranteed pension income beyond the State 
Pension.
This guaranteed income could lay the foundation for greater flexibility and could allow  
more freedom in the use of other assets.
Mr C did have a chronic health condition, but there was no evidence that his life  
expectancy would be reduced.
Mr C wasnt due to retire in the near future and so there was no reason to make a  
transfer decision immediately. 
Mr C complained in 2021 to Wren about the suitability of the advice not to transfer. He said 
the advice wasnt right as he didnt need the guaranteed income from the DB scheme. This 
was because he had other provisions. And so, he could afford to take a risk with this the DB 
scheme proceeds. And this is what he wanted to do. He p articularly thought th at his health 
condition hadnt been taken into consideration. And he thought the lo w fee that he paid may 
indicate the advice wasnt correct. He thought Wren should waive the fees for the advice. 
Wren didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it thought the recommendation to stay in the 
DB scheme was suitable for Mr C. It reiterated that this was Mr Cs largest source of 
guaranteed income, and h e didnt need to take a risk with it. He couldnt take benefits for at 
least five years and there was no indication that his health impaired his life expectancy. 
There was no compelling reason that would overcome the initial regulatory assumption that 
transferring was unlikely to be in Mr Cs best interests.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that Wren was right to recommend that Mr C not transfer his DB scheme as it wasnt 
financially viable to do so. And whilst Mr C did have other means to fund his retirement this 
didnt mean it was right to advise him to transfer away his DB scheme benefits. She went on 
to say that Wren had considered Mr Cs health but, given that it wasnt certain that his life 
expectan cy would be reduced then a recommendation to transfer would nt be correct. She 
didnt think the level of the fees had affected the advice. 
Mr C disagreed, saying that he didnt think his health had been fully considered and his point 
about the low fees had not been looked at properly. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into accou nt relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standard s and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wide r surrounding circumstances. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint fo r largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regul ator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 th at the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Wren should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Wren carried out an Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA) report (as required by the 
regulator) to show what sum of money Mr C would need to invest at a risk-free return to 
provide the same benefits as the DB scheme at 55 (and at 65 the sch emes normal 
retirement age) assuming he took a full pension. Mr C was aged 50 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between ages 55 to 60 
(being realistic). The cost or providing these equivalent benefits at 55 was shown to be over 
£899,826 which was about £500,000 more than the CETV. 
The APTA also showed how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The critical yield 
required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 65 was 5.5% if he took a full pension and 4.4% if he 
took tax free cash and a reduced pension. And the same rates at age 55 were 10.7% and 
7.8%. This means that the transferred pension would need to grow at these rates each year, 
over the five-year term, to match the benefits given up. 
Wren said Mr C would be unlikely to consistently receive these returns. And this seems right. 
These returns are very high, and it wouldnt normally be realistic or probable for an 
investment to be expected to provide these, over this term. It follows that I think it was 
reasonable for Wren not to recommend that Mr C transfer when he was likely, if not almost 
certain, to be financially worse of when he did so because of this.  
I can see that Mr C has questioned the validity of this financial viability assessment. He 
thinks that that Wren shouldnt have focussed on this requirement from the FCA to carry out 
these calculations. But Wren was required to produce this analysis under FCA rules  it 
couldnt simply ignore this regulatory requirement in Mr Cs case. And in my view these 
comparators are important because they highlight the risks involved in transferring and the 
valuable benefits provided by a DB pension. 
In summary, Mr Cs DB scheme provided a guaranteed and escalating pension. And the 
information Wren recorded at the time, and relied on to support the advice, showed that it 
was highly unlikely Mr C would be better off financially in retirement as a result of 
transferring. So, I think the conclusion reached by Wren, that transferring Mr Cs DB scheme 
benefits was likely not in his best interests from a financial viability perspective, was 
reasonable.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice; there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility
Mr Cs main aim was to retire early, ideally between the ages of 55 and 60. Mr and Mrs C 
wanted a net income of around £3,000 a month. 
At age 65 he could take a full pension of £15,796 from the DB scheme. Or a pension of 
£11,280 plus a cash lump sum of £75,198. At age 55 he could receive a full pension of 
£8,846 or a reduced pension of £6,817 plus a cash lump sum of £45,447.
Wren said that Mr C did not need to transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to meet his 
need for flexibility. This was because he had other pensions and savings which he could use 
flexibly, and so it was better to keep the DB scheme income. This is one of the things the 
regulator suggests businesses should take into account when giving transfer advice. 
And I agree that this is the case. Mr C had an employers defined contribution (DC) scheme 
which had a value of about £380,000 and a SIPP with a value of about £240,000. Mrs C also 
had significant DB scheme benefits and some DC benefits as well. They would both receive 
full state pensions in time. Lastly Mr and Mrs C both had investments of around £700,000 (in total together) which they were planning to use for their income and capital requirements in 
retirement. 
Wren said that Mr and Mrs Cs income needs should be met largely by Mr Cs DB scheme, 
Mrs Cs DB provision and their state pensions. And Mr Cs other pensions (his DC scheme 
and hi s SIPP), plus their in vestments, could be used to, for example, provide an income if 
they wanted to retire early. His other pensions were alread y subject to investment risk  
which the DB scheme was not and so there was no need to give up the DB scheme. Wren 
said that, other than the state pension, this was Mr Cs only form of guaranteed income in 
retirement and he shouldnt give this up. 
But Mr C said that he would have 93% of his income needs guaranteed by the state pension 
and Mrs Cs pension planning. And they have assets of over £2.1 million not including this 
pension. So, he didnt really need this DB scheme and he wanted to transfer it. 
But even if Mr C could have met what he thought he needed at retirement elsewhere this 
isnt in itself a good reason to transfer. As Ive outlined above, if he were to transfer away, he 
would be giving u p benefits that would cost another £500,000 to replace. Given this, there 
does need to be a pressing and immediate reason to make this tra nsfer. An d I don t think 
there is here. 
So, I agree that it was right to say that it was in Mr Cs best interests to use his DB scheme 
to provide the income he and Mrs C required and he could use his other provisions to 
provide flexibility. Overall, there doesnt seem to be any real need (rather than a want) to 
incur the costs of the transfer and I dont think it would have been right to advise Mr C to 
transfer. 
And whilst Mr C had thought about what his income needs were, he was still a fair way from 
retirement. And peoples circumstances do change. For example, someone who has a 
chronic illness may incur significant costs going into retirement due to this illness which they 
werent expecting. And in this case, they might want a guaranteed income as well as their 
capital. I appreciate that Mr C may feel that this kind of problematic circumstance is remote. 
But if a situation like this did occur then the transfer may have left him worse off having 
made an irreversible decision to transfer and at a significant cost. Again, I think it was right to 
say that any decision about a transfer should have been made later, if at all. 
Wren, concluded that a transfer was not in Mr Cs best interests and was unsuitable. 
Considering the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said Wren 
needed to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable.
Death benefits and Mr Cs Health situation
Mr C wanted to leave lump sums to his beneficiaries on his death. In general terms death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. And I think Wren did this 
here. 
Mr C strongly believes that Wren didnt fully consider his health situation when it gave him 
advice. He thinks he may not live to his full life expectancy due to a medical condition he 
has. And he thinks that Wren didnt properly factor this into the advice it gave. Whilst Mr C did have a chronic health condition. This doesnt mean that a DB transfer would 
automatically be in his best interests. It can be a good reason to transfe r a D B scheme if a 
health condition has led to a much-reduced life expectancy. And this in turn makes it 
reasonable to take the DB scheme ben efits straight away. But for this to be in someones 
best interest it need s to cle ar that a person will not li ve long into retirement so its a better 
financial decisio n to use the D B transfer proceeds now, as they may not receive a significant 
amount of pension. And bearin g in mind this pension would include significant dependents 
benefits. 
Wren did discuss whether Mr Cs life expectancy would be reduced by his medical  condition. 
According to what Wren recorded Mr C might need significant treatment in ten years or so 
but this wasnt a certainty. And it wasnt clear if it his life expectancy would be reduced in any 
event. 
So, whilst I accept that Mr C may have believed he would have a reduced life expectancy at 
the time of advice, Mr C not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility. And if he 
lived longer than he was expecting to, Mr C would need his pension benefits to last for 
longer. 
And if Mr C transferred out of the DB scheme, he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide any death benefits, 
whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
Fees
Mr C says the fees charged are around one quarter of the market level and this could be 
influencing the advice outcomes. He essentially says that Wren are charging this lower fee 
but not recommending a transfer. And this may mean that it is charging fees on a contingent 
basis, which the regulator doesnt allow. 
The full way that Wren charges fees is discussed in its letter of 11 January 2022 to Mr C. 
This does explain in detail why the fees were lower in this case. In brief this is due to the 
arrangements it had with businesses  Mr Cs previous employer included  that subsides 
the advice costs is some cases. And this all seems to be reasonable. Wren is entitled to 
charge the fees that it wants to, and Mr C did agree to pay them. And its difficult to say that 
Wren is acting incorrectly about the fees when I agree with the advice it gave. Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence the Wren is charging fees on a contingent basis, the fee doesnt 
depend on the outcome of the advice or a certain event happening. So, Im not upholding Mr 
Cs complaint on this basis. 
Summary
I understand that Mr C disagrees with Wrens advice and recommendation. But Im satisfied 
Wrens advice was based on his individual circumstances and needs at the time and that 
having considered these it said it wasnt in Mr Cs best interests to transfer the benefits from 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. 
I appreciate that Mr C and Wren had differing views of what was in his best interests. But I 
think its important to stress that Wrens role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr C 
wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr C, and in doing so it had to look beyond what 
Mr C wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests. And 
from what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Mr Cs chosen path, which was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in his best interests. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable conclusion for Wren to have made at the time. I understand Mr C has found 
anothe r adviser to assist with the transfer. 
Finall y I want to clarify that I cannot chang e or influence the rul es the FCA sets for 
businesses  thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to 
consider individual complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. 
And in this case, Im satisfied Wren hasnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly  - 
so I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman