DRN-2963236
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to them irresponsibly and provided 
them with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S were given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Total amount 
repayable
16 August 
2018Outstanding 60 £10,000 £349.00 £20,940.00
Mr S and Mrs S havent been able to maintain the loan monthly repayments and they 
feel the loan was unaffordable for them from the start and should not have been 
provided.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. He didnt think that 
TFS shouldve provided the loan to Mr S and Mrs S and he set out the steps that TFS 
needed to take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr S and Mrs S applied for the loan, TFS asked about their income and did a 
background check to verify their pay. It asked Mr S and Mrs S about their regular 
expenditure and did its own credit checks in order to understand their credit history and see 
what they were paying to service existing debt. 
TFS relied on statistical information to determine what a couple in Mr and Mrs Ss situation 
would be likely to need to spend on their monthly living costs
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application and, bearing in mind the purpose of the 
loan was for debt consolidation, the loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr S and Mrs S based on 
the information it had gathered. I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr S and Mrs Ss overall financial situation  and 
the likelihood of them being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
After doing its own background checks, TFS recorded a figure of £3,618 for Mr and Mrs Ss 
joint monthly household income. Mr and Mrs S told TFS their combined mortgage and rent 
payments came to £673 per month. TFS calculated the council tax for the property was 
around £115 and allowed for Mr and Mrs S needing to spend around £624 on other regular 
expenditure, plus an additional £288 to cover the running costs of their cars.
The loan was to be used to consolidate some existing debts. TFS calculated that 
Mr and Mrs S needed around £1,331 each month to cover the cost of the credit repayments 
they would still have to pay after consolidating other accounts. After also including a buffer 
of 15% to allow for fluctuation in income or spending and taking into account the monthly repayments they would be making on this loan, TFS calculated that Mr and Mrs S have had 
around £84 left each month after meeting their normal monthly expenses.
I think that low amount of surplus cash was a warning sign that the loan risked being 
unaffordable for them  even with the 15% buffer that TFS built into its affordability 
assessment.   
As well as this, TFS was aware from its credit checks that Mr and Mrs S were already in 
serious debt, between them owing around £52,000 to existing unsecured creditors, a mixture 
of high-street borrowing, high-cost lending, mail order and credit card debt. 
I think this looked like an excessive amount of credit built up over a number of years. And 
the indications were that Mr and Mrs S had ongoing money problems and their debts were 
escalating. TFS could also see that Mr S had taken out two large unsecured loans (with 
balances outstanding totalling £27,762) within the previous 6 months. His credit card was 
close to its £200 credit limit. Mrs S had a long record of reliance on expensive credit and just 
a couple of months earlier she had taken an expensive unsecured loan (the balance on that 
showed as £14,334). And she was £1,713 overdrawn at the bank  so given the amount 
TFS understood her pay to be, it shouldve realised Mrs S was effectively paying her credit 
debts with borrowed money it didnt look like she was in a position to repay. 
I think TFS should have understood that Mr and Mrs S showed all the hallmarks of being in 
serious financial difficulty and that the potential for debt consolidation that its loan offered 
wasnt a good enough reason to lend to them. I think the scale of their overall debt and the 
extent of their evident money problems and apparent reliance on high cost credit would 
suggest that Mr and Mrs S would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
At the very least, given that Mr and Mrs S were signing up to make costly monthly 
repayments on this loan for the next five years I think reasonable and proportionate checks 
wouldve involved TFS doing more to ensure it had a thorough knowledge of Mr and Mrs Ss 
financial circumstances, including evidence. I say this because I dont think TFS was 
reasonably able to be satisfied on the information it had that the loan was likely to be 
sustainably affordable over the term.
 
If TFS had done more and better checking, I think it likely that TFS wouldve seen nothing to 
reassure it that it was fair to provide this loan to Mr S and Mrs S  and more clear evidence 
that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for them over the loan term. And had 
TFS done a proportionate check this wouldve revealed further reasons why the loan was 
likely to be unsustainable and why TFS shouldnt have provided it. 
Mr and Mrs S provided us with their own credit reports and bank statements. TFS will 
already be aware that different credit searches can show different results  so I think it 
wouldve understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show Mr S and Mrs Ss 
whole credit record. 
And TFS could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. But, in 
the absence of other evidence, I think the information that Mr and Mrs S sent us does give a 
reasonable insight into their finances at the time. 
So Ive looked through it to see what TFS was likely to have found out about their overall 
financial situation had it carried out more in-depth checks. 
If TFS had looked more closely at Mr and Mrs Ss finances it would likely have seen that 
they had taken out and were paying for other credit that didnt appear on its credit checks 
and Mr S and Mrs S hadnt mentioned. Our investigator pointed out that the statements show Mrs S was working two jobs at the 
time  her typical monthly income from her main employment was around £1,764 and the 
pay from her second job was around £671. Mr Ss normal monthly income was around 
£1,806. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable assessment of Mr and Mrs Ss average 
monthly household income was around £4,241 - which is more than the figure TFS relied on 
when it worked out affordability.
But set against this is the information on Mrs Ss bank statements revealing two debts that 
were unknown to TFS - a hire-purchase agreement costing around £311 each month and a 
regular payment clearly marked as a loan to the proposed guarantor for the TFS Loan 
Mr and Mrs S were taking out. That cost them a further £322.66 each month.
Excluding the debts being consolidated and Mrs Ss mortgage, Mr and Mrs S needed more 
than £2,000 to repay their remaining credit commitments. With the loan from TFS as well, 
this would mean they would be paying more than half of their net household income each 
month just on servicing their debt. 
Even if debt consolidation offered the opportunity to lower their monthly credit repayments 
this doesnt affect my view overall. Still having to pay more than half of their joint take home 
pay each month just to meet their credit obligations on unsecured debts was such a 
significant proportion of household income that it was unlikely in my view to be sustainable 
over the long loan term. 
So, thinking about all this, I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr S and Mrs S have been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges 
on a loan that they shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that they have lost out as 
a result of what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
I have dealt in my decision only with Mr and Mrs Ss irresponsible/unfair lending 
complaint. I am aware that they have raised other complaint issues they may want to 
pursue but those will be looked at separately and have not been considered here as part 
of my decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S and Mrs S to repay the principal amount that they 
borrowed, because they had the benefit of that lending. 
But they have paid extra for a loan that should not have been provided to them. In line with 
this Services approach, Mr and Mrs S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount they 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S and Mrs S received as a result of being 
given the loan. The payments Mr S and Mrs S made should be deducted from this 
amountif this results in Mr S and Mrs S having paid more than they received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S and Mrs S bearing in mind the need to 
treat them positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr S and Mrs Ss credit file regarding 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr S 
and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if either of them asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman