DRN-3372936
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled her claim for 
a refund of a payment she made using her credit card account.
What happened
On 10 February 2020, Ms P purchased flights for herself and her family using her 
credit card account. In total, the flights cost £892.14.
They were due to fly in July 2020. However, increasingly worried about Covid-19  
especially as Ms P and her husband were, at the time, key workers  Ms Ps 
husband contacted the airline for advice in June 2020. Ms P says her husband was 
told they didnt need to do anything if they were unable to fly. She says he was told 
they should simply request a no show certificate after the departure date and then 
claim a refund.
They did this, but their claim was declined.
Ms P contacted RBS on 19 August 2020. She asked it to refund the money shed 
paid for the flights by completing an online chargeback form.
On 21 August 2020, RBS applied a temporary credit of £892.14 to Ms Ps credit card 
account. However, it only explained that this was a temporary credit and may be 
reversed when it emailed her on 14 September 2020  by then, Ms P had spent the 
money.
The chargeback claim was ultimately unsuccessful  and RBS re-debited the 
disputed amount on 28 October 2020.
Ms Ps husband was later able to make a successful claim on an insurance policy 
and received a partial refund of £592.14.
Ms P is very unhappy that RBS didnt tell her for three weeks that the credit it applied 
to her account was temporary and may be reversed. She wants it to pay her the 
amount that wasnt covered by the insurance (£300) and refund a £12 late payment 
fee.
RBS accepts that it should have told her sooner that the credit was temporary, and 
that it re-debited the disputed amount sooner than it said it would. It wrote to Ms P to 
say sorry and paid her £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators thought £100 was fair compensation for the mistakes it had 
made.
Ms P disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
I appreciate that Ms Ps key concern is that RBS didnt tell her sooner that the credit was 
temporary. However, for completeness, Ive also considered the way it handled the 
chargeback claim itself.
Ms P completed an online chargeback form on 19 August 2020. RBS raised a chargeback 
with the airlines bank the next day, and applied a temporary credit of £892.14 to Ms Ps 
account on 21 August 2020. So it started the chargeback process as soon as possible.
The airline contested the chargeback because the flights took place  and RBS took it no 
further.
Ive carefully considered Mastercards rules  and the guidance it issued during the 
pandemic. The guidance it issued on 1 May 2020 makes it clear that there is no chargeback 
right if the cardholder chose not to use an available service following precautionary advice or 
to avoid mandated quarantines upon arrival, or could not use an available service because 
of travel restrictions. In the circumstances, I dont think RBS acted unfairly or should have 
done more.
I appreciate that Ms P says the airline told her husband they could simply request a no 
show certificate and claim a refund if they were unable to fly. I dont know what Ms Ps 
husband said to the airline, or what it said in reply. I know Ms P will be disappointed, but 
even if the airline provided her husband with incorrect information, I dont think it makes a 
difference for the purpose of a chargeback claim given the scheme rules.
RBS accepts that it should have told Ms P sooner that the credit was temporary, and that it 
re-debited the disputed amount sooner than it said it would  as Ms P had asked that the 
money not be re-debited before had it had investigated her complaint. Its apologised and 
paid Ms P £100. It also waived interest charges on her account for 4 months.
Ms P says thats not enough. She says its like giving a family member money and asking for 
it back after theyve spent it. I dont agree with this analogy. The money was credited to 
Ms Ps account two days after she completed an online form. Ms P assumed the matter was 
fully resolved and that the money was hers to spend, even though shed received no 
correspondence from RBS and shed made no enquiries. I agree that it would have been 
better if RBS had told Ms P that it was a temporary credit sooner  and ideally on 
21 August 2020 or very soon thereafter. But I think its only fair I take into account the fact 
that the pandemic caused significant operational challenges for RBS, like all businesses, just 
as it was inundated with chargeback claims from consumers trying to get their money back. 
Whats more, Ms P wasnt due a refund  and she used the credit to pay for a holiday, so 
she hasnt lost out. In the circumstances, I think RBS has already paid Ms P fair 
compensation for the mistakes it made, and I dont think it needs to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman