DRN-3676705
The complaint
Mr M complains that although he has been paying monthly payment towards his debts for 
many years, Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) have failed to tell him, for the last six years, about 
another account they hold for him.
Mr M has three accounts with Arrow, which for the purposes of this decision I will call B, M 
and H.
During the lifetime of these accounts Mr M has lived at three addresses which for the 
purposes of this decision Ill call Address A, Address B and Address C.
What happened
More than 10 years ago Mr M entered into what appears to have been a debt management 
plan, where he paid one monthly payment and the provider of the plan split this between his 
creditors, including Arrow, with who he had three accounts. Arrow had more than one 
company servicing the accounts on their behalf at different times throughout the lifetime of 
them. 
When the plan was set up Mr M lived at Address A. In June 2014 Mr M moved to Address B.
Mr M says around 2016, the provider told him it was no longer offering this service but would 
contact his creditors and arrange direct payments to be set up for him. Mr M believed this to 
have happened and has made monthly payments, as set up, ever since. Mr M has a letter 
dated October 2016, addressed to Address B, from one of Arrows agents setting up a 
monthly direct debit of £20. He believed this to be covering the money he owed to Arrow.
In December 2018 Arrows agent wrote to Mr M at Address B to let him know he hadnt been 
paying towards account B. The agent received a call from the occupier of the property who 
said Mr M no longer lived at the address. Arrow and or its agents continued to write to Mr M 
at Address B until August 2020.
Arrow says a letter about account B was sent to Mr M, at Address C in July 2020.
Mr M says he moved to Address C from Address B in September 2020, while still continuing 
with his monthly payments.
In July 2021 Mr M contacted Arrows agent to ask for a statement of his accounts, he 
needed this to show to his new employer. On this call the agent informed Mr M that although 
he had been paying money towards debts he owed to Arrow, there was another account with 
a balance of around £6,000 that he hadnt been making payments towards. This was 
account B. The agent told Mr M the address they held for him on this account was Address 
B. Mr M was very upset to learn the money hed been paying each month for the last 10 
years or more had not been reducing all of his balances with Arrow, but only those of 
accounts M and H. Arrows agent then began to write to Mr M asking for payments towards 
Account B. They also discussed it on the phone with him.
Mr M complained to Arrow he felt it was unfair that they hadnt written to him to let him know 
hed not been making payments towards the account since 2016 but had now written to him 
with no apology. He said he had been passed from business to business when dealing with 
Arrow and their agents. He also said they had been excessively calling him about the debt.  
Arrow didnt uphold his complaint and so he brought it here.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, he thought Arrow could have 
done more to keep Mr M informed about Account B and asked Arrow to pay £100 to 
recognise this. Arrow didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having do so I will be upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr Ms last payment to Account B was in September 2016, when the provider of his debt 
management plan told him it would no longer be providing the service but would set up 
payments with his creditors for him. So, although Mr B had stopped paying towards Account 
B he had made the payments that had been arranged for him, so I think its reasonable to 
believe he wasnt aware he was no longer paying towards this particular account. 
Arrow has provided system notes showing it wrote to Mr M in 2018, the note dont say what 
address the letters were sent to. As its not clear where this letter was issued to, I cant fairly 
say Mr M should have received this letter.
There is another system note in February 2020 saying they issued an annual statement to 
Mr M at Address B. Although this was at a time that Arrow say they thought Mr M didnt live 
at this address, he has told us he lived there until September 2020. So, Im satisfied that this 
letter is the first letter I can fairly say Mr M should have received about Account B after 
payments stopped in 2016. Although Mr M says he didnt receive any letters before 2021, 
Im persuaded this was sent. Even if there was a problem with the post that prevented Mr M 
from receiving it, thats not something I can fairly hold Arrow responsible for. So, I dont 
agree with Mr M that it was nearly six years before Arrow made him aware of Account Bs 
outstanding balance. 
Even if I accept that Arrow sent the 2018 letter to the correct address  it still means they left 
matters for two years without updating Mr M. And this isnt what Id expect. They should 
have written to Mr M to ask him why his payments had stopped in 2016, they have a 
responsibility to provide statements and updates to Mr M on his accounts and so I cant say 
they have treated Mr M fairly by not doing this. Arrow has said that Mr M hasnt kept them up 
to date with his address details, but I dont agree as their agent sent a letter to Mr M at 
Address B in 2016 agreeing the direct debit on one of the other Arrow accounts. So, I think 
they did have access to this information and could have applied it across his accounts.
Mr M feels the amount of contact from Arrow following his call with them in July 2021 has 
been excessive and he feels they contacted him on the phone too much, but I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this is the case. From the evidence provided I can see Arrow spoke 
with him once on the phone after his initial call to them and they have written to him on 
handful of occasions. As they have a legitimate reason to contact him regarding the debt 
owed on Account B I dont think this was an unreasonable amount of contact.Mr M has also told us that he felt as if he was pushed from pillar to post when trying to deal 
with Arrow and their agents. I understand dealing with lots of different parties can be 
confusing and daunting, but as the owners of the account Arrow are entitled to appoint other 
businesses to administer the accounts on their behalf, so I cant say they did anything wrong 
when they did this.
Mr M hasnt lost out financially in the years he hasnt been paying towards Account B, as no 
interest or fees have been added to the balance, so the debt has not increased. And 
although I appreciate this will now take him some time to pay Account B off, he has been in 
a position where his monthly outgoings have been lower than they would have been had he 
been paying towards it. 
Taking into account all of the above I do think Arrow let Mr M down when they failed to 
update him about his account for possibly four years, but at least two. Because I think had 
they done so,he would have acted to make payments towards it sooner. And so, I think they 
should compensate him for this, I think £100 is a fair reflection for this error.
Putting things right
Arrow should now pay Mr M £100 for the lack of updates provided to him on Account B from 
2016 until 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Arrow Global Limited, and I now require it to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman