DRN-2481548
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited failed to carry out her 
instructions correctly to transfer her Collective Investment Plan (CIP) to an ISA. Numerous 
errors were identified over a prolonged period of time and she is not convinced HBOS has 
put things right. 
What happened
Mrs M also said she requested her investment be stripped back to the time of the
transfer and a comparison be carried out so see if she has suffered any loss. HBOS did this 
and she was informed that she had suffered loss in the region of £7-9,000. She believes that 
this loss arose as a direct result of HBOS failure to act on her instructions.
  
An investigator summarised what were the key events, in her view, saying:
On 16 February 2017 Mrs M phoned HBOS to request Stock Transfer Forms in 
respect of her CIP
On 9 March 2017 HBOS received and processed Mrs Ms application to transfer 
shares from her CIP to an ISA
On 15 March 2017 HBOS received Mrs Ms signed confirmation that she wished to 
transfer the balance from her CIP into the ISA CIP for the tax year 17/18, to the ISA 
limit. Once this had been done HBOS was to close the CIP and her direct debit was 
to be cancelled so no further payments were made into the CIP. Then HBOS was to 
calculate how much she could invest on a monthly basis into each of the four plans 
for the 17/18 tax year ISA CIP. Her instructions were processed accordingly
On 18 April 2017 Mrs M provided instructions to set up four direct debits for £12.85 to 
commence 1 June to go into each of the plans. Her instructions were processed 
accordingly
On 15 December 2017 she phoned to complain that her April 2017 direct debit 
request had been applied to her CIP instead of her ISA. She asked for this to be 
corrected and confirmed to the call handler that corrective action would resolve her 
complaint. On this basis, her complaint was treated as having been resolved during 
the call
Mrs M again confirmed during a call on 7 July 2018 that HBOS had processed her 
CIP to ISA transfer incorrectly; instead of her ISA mirroring the same four portfolios 
shed held in an OEIC under her CIP, HBOS transferred them into just one ISA 
portfolio
HBOS wrote to Mrs M on 18 July 2018 and explained that the corrective action had 
been taken and no financial disadvantage had been caused to her
On 31 July 2018 HBOS received instructions which comprised of a fund switch, a 
request to increase future payments to £50.00 per month into each of her four 
portfolios and confirmation of the funds these payments should purchase units in
Following a call on 6 November 2018 HBOS identified the corrective action referred 
to in its letter dated 18 July 2018 hadnt corrected the ISA portfolio and further action 
was taken to correct this error. HBOS notified Mrs M of this in a letter dated 27 
November 2018. It was identified that no financial loss had occurred
Mrs M raised a complaint in January 2019 and following this an HBOS advisor spoke 
to Mrs M on 30 January 2019. She noted that Mrs M wanted HBOS to calculate how 
much her investment would be worth now if she hadnt instructed the 
switch/increments since March 2017. She explained a calculation of this nature 
would take some time due to the amount of manual work involved
Mrs Ms complaint was upheld and a letter was sent to her on 31 January 2019 
enclosing a cheque for £150. It acknowledged the portfolio and direct debit errors 
that had occurred and confirmed the actions taken to correct these. It also 
acknowledged that the advisor was carrying out further work and would be in touch 
separately
During internal discussions the advisor explained it would be extremely difficult if not 
impossible to calculate how much the investment would be worth now if none of the 
transactions since March 2017 had occurred because of all the transactions and 
corrections that had occurred during the interim. She rang Mrs M but a recording of 
that call was not retained nor was a copy of any calculations carried out filed. It was 
however noted that Mrs M wished to re-open her complaint due to the loss that had 
arisen
On 29 April 2019 Mrs M phoned another HBOS advisor to chase the spreadsheet 
which had been promised during her 30 January 2019 phone call
The initial advisor was unable to provide this but confirmed within internal 
correspondence that due to the number of transactions and corrections, it would be 
impossible to calculate a current value assuming the transactions since March 2017 
had not occurred
The second advisor wrote to Mrs M on 19 February 2020 and confirmed that errors 
had been made with the CIP transfer and direct debits, and these had been 
corrected. Errors had also been made when a request was made to transfer her fund 
from the Corp Bond into the Far Eastern
She also acknowledged that the percentage split was incorrect for the payment from 
1 August 2018. A loss of £440 was identified which was the unit price value of 
placing Mrs Ms investments in the same position they would have been in had no 
errors occurred. As this involved purchasing units, the value was not fixed and could 
be more or less than this depending on the time of rectification. A breakdown of the 
calculations used were also sent to Mrs M
Mrs M has been offered £300 in total (not £450 as stated in the complaint form) in 
recognition of the delays in dealing with the complaint and for the trouble and upset 
caused to her
She is not prepared to accept the offer
Mrs M doesnt trust HBOS has identified or corrected all the errors. She felt the 
mistakes that had been made had been detrimental to her investment and this was 
why she was asking for the transactions from March 2017 onwards to be unwound, 
or for any difference in value to be added to her existing investment. She believes 
that her investment has been disadvantaged by £7-9,000
Nor does she believe that the trouble and upset payment reflects the time she had 
spent dealing with matters
This was the investigators assessment of the case:
She had compared Mrs Ms account of the timeline of events against HBOSs and felt 
there were no significant differences in their descriptions
As Mrs Ms provided valid instructions for HBOS to transfer her CIP to an ISA, it 
would not be appropriate to instruct HBOS to return these funds to her CIP i.e. 
reverse her instructions
While Mrs M claimed she was told by an HBOS advisor that a like-for-like 
comparison had been done by HBOS  and that she had lost up to £9,000, this seemed highly unlikely as the underlying funds hadnt changed and the ISA had 
lower fees
HBOS argument that it would have been very difficult to carry out such a calculation 
indicates it never made such a calculation
HBOS confirmed that it has investigated the transactional history based on if the ISA 
had been originally been set up in the same way as Mrs Ms CIP. It has carried out 
remedial action to place Mrs M in the same position she would have been in had this 
occurred at the outset, using best prices so that units were purchased for any 
shortfall arising by comparing historical and current prices at the time of the 
rectification
Errors had also been made when a request was made to transfer her fund from the 
Corp Bond into the Far Eastern; also the percentage split was incorrect for the 
payment from 1 August 2018. A loss of £440 was identified which was the unit price 
value of placing Mrs Ms investments in the same position they would have been in 
had no errors occurred
She was satisfied that the offer detailed above was fair and reasonable, and in lines 
with our guidelines for redress
Having outlined various reasons for this, she proposed that HBOS increased its 
trouble and upset payment to £750
HBOS agreed to the investigators proposed redress.
Mrs M did not, saying:
She didnt believe £750 fairly reflected the extent of the trouble and upset HBOS had 
caused via its prolonged errors and delays
She is adamant that the first advisor told there had been a loss calculation and she 
had lost up to £9,000; why cant HBOS provide evidence of this phone call?
If the calculation was wrong, why didnt the advisor come back to her letting her know 
this?
She expects the amounts should be similar. However due to the large discrepancy 
shown from the calculations she was told about, she believes the ISA is not worth as 
much as the CIP due to all the mistakes that have been made investing in the wrong 
plans and funds over a 19-month period
The email HBOS shows a table with the funds being invested into four plans before 
any changes were made, it then goes on to show what was invested in portfolio five - 
which was the plan they did the transfer to - and includes the funds referred to below. 
This is not a true reflection of the portfolio at the time as it did not contain all six funds
Its email of 31 July 2017 said that the transfer was completed incorrectly into one 
portfolio (Portfolio 5) instead of 4 portfolios; they then show the four funds in portfolio 
2 and 4 and the six funds in portfolio 1 and 3. The letter from Halifax on 18 July 
shows portfolio 5 as only having four funds rather than six
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not 
repeat her lengthy explanation of the reasons why she concluded that HBOSs various loss calculations and corrections were correct. 
It is unfortunate that HBOS cannot access the call where an advisor allegedly said Mrs M 
had lost up to £9,000. However, I can see no possible reason why a transfer of investment 
funds from a CIP to an ISA could lead to any loss when the funds remain unaltered. So, 
irrespective of what an advisor might have said, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that such 
a loss occurred.
I fully understand why Mrs M has limited faith in HBOSs calculations given the number of 
errors which occurred. But having assessed all the available information, Ive seen no 
evidence that it did not correct the errors in question.
I also understand why Mrs M has concerns about the fund and portfolio switches and the 
changes in numbers as various alterations and subsequent adjustments took place. But, 
from what Ive read, HBOSs explanation of 16 September 2019 along with subsequent 
clarifications explain what had happened. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that there are 
missing funds.
I also agree that HBOS should increase its payment in respect87 of the amount of trouble 
and upset it has caused to £750. I dont doubt that this whole saga took a considerable 
amount of Mrs Ms time and energy, but I am satisfied that this figure is in line with the sort of 
sum this service considers fair and reasonable in such cases.
Putting things right
HBOS should pay Mrs M £750.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent described above and instruct HBOS Investment Fund 
Managers Limited to pay Mrs M £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman