DRN-2750504
The complaint
Mr H says he was given loans that he couldnt afford by 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited 
(this was a trading name used at the time by a business called Oplo PL Ltd). 
What happened
1st Stop gave Mr H two loans as follows:   
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
123/01/2018 31/08/2018 60 £4,000.00 £108.27
231/08/2018 Debt sold 60 £8,000.00 £238.14
Mr H complained that 1st Stop lent to him irresponsibly as he thought it had taken into 
account his partners income when assessing whether the loan was affordable for him. He 
also told 1st Stop that he hadnt been in a fit state of mind when applying for the loan
When 1st Stop looked at Mr Hs complaint, it apologised to him for delay in responding to his 
complaint. But it didnt uphold Mr Hs irresponsible/ unaffordable lending complaint. It said 
that it had carried out full affordability checks on both loans which showed that Mr H had 
enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments  and that it had only taken his 
income and expenditure into account. 1st Stop said it couldnt comment on Mr Hs state of 
mind. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for 1st Stop to provide 
loan 1 to Mr H  so he didnt uphold that part of Mr Hs complaint. But our adjudicator 
thought that loan 2 shouldnt have been lent because he didnt feel that 1st Stop did 
proportionate checks before agreeing to lend it. And our adjudicator said if it had, it wouldve 
seen that Mr H was spending a significant amount on gambling in the months running up to 
him applying for loan 2 -  so 1st Stop shouldve realised it was unlikely that the loan would be 
sustainably affordable for him.
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicators view regarding loan 2. It sent us further information 
detailing the affordability checks it carried out and said that Mr H had satisfactorily explained 
items he was questioned about that showed on his credit file. 1st Stop also said that the loan 
was intended for debt consolidation. Overall, 1st Stop said it took Mr H through a robust 
underwriting process which demonstrated that it lent to him responsibly.
1st Stop asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible/unaffordable lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website  
and I've kept this in mind when thinking about this complaint. 
1st Stop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that 1st Stop should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
1st Stop was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr H hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1, 
except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about this loan.  
When he applied for loan 2, 1st Stop gathered information about Mr Hs income and 
expenditure and the electronic check it carried out appeared to show that he should be able 
to afford the monthly repayments out of his disposable income. It asked Mr H about some matters of potential concern flagged up in its credit checks. And 
1st Stop told us that repayments on all the debts that it wouldnt be settling directly when it 
issued loan 2 were fully considered before Mr H was accepted for the loan. 
But Mr H was taking a very substantial loan, it would be double the amount of loan 1 and he 
was going to be making monthly repayments that were almost twice the amount he had paid 
for loan 1. He was signing up to make these repayments for the next 5 years or so. So 
although the loan mightve appeared affordable to 1st Stop, I think that it shouldve realised 
that it needed to carry out more in-depth enquiries and checks to ensure that it had a proper 
understanding of his financial situation. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr H has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what 1st Stop 
was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks as I think it shouldve done. 
1st Stop could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry 
out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other evidence, 
I think the bank statements Mr H has sent me give a reasonable insight into his finances at 
the time. 
And had 1st Stop done proportionate checking I think it would have learnt that Mr H was 
regularly spending very substantial amounts on what appear to be numerous online 
gambling transactions in the months leading up to Mr H applying for loan 2. This accounted 
for a significant proportion of his take home pay. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for 1st Stop to conclude that it was likely Mr H would be 
able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. And I think that its decision to lend in these 
circumstances was unfair. The fact that the loan was intended for debt consolidation makes 
no difference to my overall view. 
For these reasons, Im upholding the complaint about loan 2.
Ive thought about whether 1st Stop acted in any other way that was unfair or unreasonable. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont feel that I've seen enough to show that it did. I've carefully 
listened to the call recording when 1st Stop spoke to Mr H and checked through all the 
available information in its notes. I cant find anything suggesting that Mr H took steps to 
alert 1st Stop to his state of mind or that he did or said anything to make it think that he 
might not be in a position to make an informed borrowing decision. It seems clear his 
concerns about his partners income werent a factor in 1st Stops lending decisions. And 
whilst 1st Stop has acknowledged that there was a delay before it responded to his 
complaint it has explained why and apologised. 
So, overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that 1st Stop acted towards Mr H in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable so as to warrant an award of additional redress 
over and above the steps I will direct it to take in respect of loan 2. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
when he took out loan 2, because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged interest (and possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him  which is unfair.As 1st Stop has sold this outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, 1st Stop should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 2, and treat any repayments 
made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal loan 
amount. 
If there is still an outstanding balance, 1st Stop should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr H - bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 1st Stop shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off.
Or, if this results in Mr H having made overpayments, then those overpayments 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled and paid to Mr H.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
loan 2 when it is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd trading at the time as 1st Stop Personal 
Loans Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman