DRN-2652644
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of esure Insurance Limited, after he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr M purchased a car hed seen advertised on social media. He arranged for 
the vehicle to be covered by his motor insurance policy with esure. 
In late August 2020, another vehicle collided into the back of the car. Mr M made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. esure collected the car and provided Mr M with a courtesy car. 
While carrying out checks to validate the claim, esure discovered that the car had been 
reported stolen and Mr M wasnt the rightful owner. esure told Mr M that it wouldnt be able 
to return the vehicle to him under the circumstances. It gave Mr M contact details for the 
company the car belonged to and suggested he also get in touch with the police.
Mr M raised a complaint with esure. He didnt think esure had done enough to support him 
as a paying customer who had been a victim of fraud. He felt he should be covered for the 
loss of the vehicle and that esure should either repay the value of it or return it to him. He 
was also concerned he was still being charged premiums.
esure said that it had an obligation to release the car to the original owner once it had 
discovered it had been stolen. Any disputes relating to the ownership of the car would need 
to be discussed with the original owner directly. esure said it would be in touch with Mr M 
regarding the premiums hed been paying for the policy.
 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he asked our service to look into his concerns. In the meantime, 
esure said it would cancel Mr Ms policy as of 10 August 2020, which was when the change 
of vehicle amendment had taken place. 
Our investigator gave his view that esures offer to refund Mr Ms premium was fair. He didnt 
think there was anything else esure needed to do because Mr Ms policy didnt cover him for 
the purchase of a stolen vehicle. Our investigator thought esure had acted reasonably. 
Mr M said hed like a second opinion on his complaint. He said he was told that esure would 
refund him for extra bodywork hed paid to have carried out on the car. So, his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
I can see that Mr M took out a comprehensive motor insurance policy with esure for the 
vehicle in question. The policy schedule says:
Cover is only in force if:
-The car is insured by the owner
I appreciate Mr M believed he was the legal owner of the car when he took out the 
insurance. He says the seller completed an HPI check in front of him and this had all clear 
results. But the checks esure carried out when it was attempting to validate his claim showed 
the car had been stolen. So, it would appear that Mr M was never the legal owner of the car. 
This means the cover was never in force. In any event, the policy doesnt provide cover for a 
policyholder being sold a stolen vehicle.
esure says it had an obligation to return the car to its rightful owners once it was aware that 
the car Mr M bought had been stolen. I think this is right and it was fair and reasonable for 
esure to have done so.
Mr M says he paid for extra body work to be carried out on the vehicle after it came into his 
possession and hes provided an invoice to show this. He says he was told esure would 
refund him for this. But esure says that, although it asked Mr M for evidence of repairs being 
carried out on the car, it had never mentioned reimbursing him for them. And I havent seen 
anything to show me that Mr M was given the wrong information about this.
esure has offered to cancel the policy back to 10 August 2020, which is when it was 
amended to cover the vehicle in question, and refund Mr Ms premiums. I think this is fair to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, who appears to have been an innocent 
victim of fraud and has experienced significant financial loss and emotional distress as a 
result. But I cant say that esure is responsible for this.
Putting things right
esure should cancel Mr Ms policy back to 10 August 2020 and reimburse him for any 
premiums hes overpaid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman