DRN-4032302
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund her after she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
While the account is held in Mrs Bs sole name, a family member that Ill refer to as T, has 
provided most of the submissions and made most of the transactions on Mrs Bs account 
(with her authorisation) in relation to the scam.
In January 2021, T says he was contacted by someone he didnt know on a social media 
website  Ill refer to this person as X. After talking for a short period of time, they moved 
their communication to a messaging app. T says that prior to being contacted by X, he had 
regular contact with a separate friend online who regularly talked to him about 
cryptocurrency trading and the profit hed made from the trading. So, when X started talking 
to T about trading and the money X had made, T was interested to know more.
T says X shared an app with him he could use for trading, and helped T to set up an account 
on the app. They also helped T set up new crypto wallets with two genuine cryptocurrency 
exchanges. X told T he could make good profits by converting his money into USDT then 
buying and selling different cryptocurrencies based on daily fluctuations. 
T made some small initial payments, but says he lost some money with his trades. So, he 
got in touch with his friend and showed him the app and the trades hed made. T says his 
friend explained some mistakes he was making that were negatively impacting on his ability 
to make profit, but never suggested that the app T was using might be suspicious or fake.
T initially made small transfers from Mrs Bs account to fund the trading account, but when T 
attempted to make a transfer of £5,000 from Mrs B account, the payment was flagged by 
Barclays and a block was placed on Mrs Bs online banking.
T and Mrs B went into a Barclays branch on 2 March 2021. T says they attended the branch 
approximately 30 minutes before the branch was due to close. The branch staff made a call 
to an internal department in relation to the block and asked Mrs B/T to talk to a staff member 
on the phone. T says the call lasted about 45 minutes then was cut off. The branch staff 
called the internal department again and after being on hold for a further 30 minutes Mrs B/T 
were passed the phone. T says that as Mrs B wasnt confident talking in English, she asked 
T to speak to the staff. T says that after the call had finished, they showed the branch staff 
the app they were using for trading and says they specifically asked them if was ok to invest.
T says the staff member moved away and then came back shortly after and said everything 
was fine. T says that based on this they were confident that the investment was genuine.
Barclays have been unable to provide a copy of the call T and Mrs B had with the internal 
department. However, they have provided their contact notes completed by their staff. These 
notes say:
The customer has come in with their son and has already completed a transfer to her son 
for £5,000 to approve the transaction. Customer then passed me to their son who has 
explained they are aware of the risks of this payment. I have then related this information to 
the customer who has mentioned they are not aware of the risks of using crypto or trading 
and does not know when their son will pay them back. Customer unwilling, or coerced into 
this transaction, branch staff will now follow process and speak with the customer 
separately. Staff member A
Spoke to customer separately, she did not understand the questioning over the phone and 
is aware what is going on. She understands that there may be risks in investing in 
cryptocurrency but is happy with the payment. Her son has also shown us the 
cryptocurrency account where the money is invested. Staff member B
Following this branch visit, T says X told him that a big event was happening and that he 
could make large profits if he increased his investment, so he made further payments into 
the trading platform from Mrs Bs account.
T says that the profits in the trading account increased as promised, but when he tried to 
withdraw the funds, he was told he had to pay more money in first. At which point T realised 
it had been a scam.
T says he did an online search of the trading app before opening an account but couldnt find 
any information about them online. T says this wasnt surprising as he believed it mayve 
been a Chinese company and would only be found if searched on Chinas web services. He 
says that he had talked extensively with X, even though it was only for a few days, but 
thought they had developed a genuine friendship and he trusted her. T also felt that if there 
was anything wrong with the trading app that either his friend (who was experienced in 
trading) wouldve identified it, or that the branch staff wouldve when he showed them the 
app.
Ive listed below the payments and transfers made from Mrs Bs account as part of the scam.
Date Pmt 
NoTransaction details Amount
  8.2.2021 1 Scam payment  from ISA account £    400.00
18.2.2021 2 Scam payment  from ISA account
Barclays refunded 50%£ 1,000.00
24.2.2021 3 Transfer to T  from current account £ 5,000.00
  2.3.2021 4 Transfer to T  from current account £ 2,628.27
  2.3.2021 5 Mrs B goes into a Barclays branch with T
  3.3.2021 6 Scam payment  from ISA account
Barclays refunded 50%£ 5,000.00
  3.3.2021 7 Transfer to T  from current account £ 5,000.00
  4.3.2021 8 Transfer to T  from current account £ 5,000.00
  4.3.2021 9 Transfer to T  from current account £ 5,000.00
Total loss £29,028.27
A fraud claim was raised with Barclays in March 2021, which separated out the payments 
made from Ts account and from Mrs Bs account. The only transactions that were raised in 
relation to Mrs Bs account were the two transactions in bold in the table above.
Barclays investigated Mrs Bs fraud claim and initially declined to refund her. T raised a 
complaint with Barclays over the outcome and highlighted the extreme impact that losing this money had had on Mrs B and their family. T explained that Mrs B was unable to sleep and 
as a result Mrs B had been involved in an emergency call to paramedics.
Barclays reconsidered Mrs Bs fraud claim and changed their position  offering to refund 
50% of the two payments they considered as part of her claim. They declined to refund the 
remaining 50% saying their notes indicated theyd explained the risk of investments and that 
Mrs B chose to continue with the payments anyway. They offered Mrs B £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the overturn in their decision and agreed to pay £271.96 in 
interest on the refunded amount.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Barclays response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint about the same two transactions that Barclays 
considered under the fraud claim. The investigator felt the 50% refund was fair, saying that 
Mrs B didnt do sufficient checks prior to investing. Also, the investigator didnt award any 
further payment for Mrs Bs distress or inconvenience saying that most of the impact had 
been caused by the scammer not by Barclays.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators opinion, saying:
She couldnt have checked the company on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
website as she didnt know who they were until after they were aware of the scam.
Barclays were the experts and when Mrs B and T went into the branch, Barclays 
shouldve identified that the app wasnt genuine and sufficiently warned them.
T had relied on his friend who have been doing this type of trading for years and 
knew much more about it than him  and his friend didnt identify that it was a scam.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 2 March 2023 I issued my provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transactions Im considering under this complaint
When Barclays reviewed the fraud claim from Mrs B, they only considered two of the 
payments she made as part of the scam. They are the payments for £1,000 and £5,000 
which are referenced (in bold) in the table above.
However, having carefully considered the circumstances around this case and the scam  
Mrs B fell victim to, Im satisfied that all of the payments made as part of the scam should be 
considered under this complaint.
I say this because after a block was placed on Mrs Bs account on 23 February 2021, further 
payments were made as part of the scam albeit the money was transferred from Mrs Bs 
account to Ts account - before T forwarded the funds onto the scammer. However, the 
payments were only made from Ts account to get around the blocks that were placed on 
Mrs Bs account by Barclays.
So, while T has raised a separate complaint regarding the transactions that were made from 
his account  all of the transactions made from his account were funded by transfers from Mrs Bs account. Also, included in the notes captured by Barclays during Mrs Bs visit to a 
Barclays branch it says Cx states he will be investing approximately £20k on behalf of     
Mrs B. All of which persuades me that the financial loss suffered as a result of the scam is 
Mrs Bs financial loss  with T not having suffered a financial loss.
Therefore, all of the payments included in the table above should be considered as part of 
Mrs Bs fraud claim and under this complaint.
Is Mrs B entitled a refund under the CRM Code?
Barclays are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays says two of 
those exceptions apply in this case.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
The customer ignored effective warnings, by failing to take appropriate action in 
response to such an effective warning
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Did Mrs B ignore an effective warning?
Barclays have provided a copy of the warning they say Mrs B wouldve seen when selecting 
the payment purpose of investment.
The warning says:
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for you to 
protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover your money. Well 
never ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the police, HMRC or any 
trusted organisation
Stay safe from scams
Check the FCA register and warning list to confirm that the investment company is certified 
and regulated before proceeding. Scammers often clone genuine companies, creating 
documents and websites that look real  check the spelling.
Fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to encourage you to provide 
larger amounts of money, so get a second opinion from a qualified advisor. If the offer 
sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
However, Im not satisfied that this warning would be considered effective in line with the 
CRM Code. The first part of the warning talks about scam types that arent relevant to the 
scam Mrs B was the victim of, so Im not persuaded this wouldve been impactful in her 
circumstances.
And, while the second part of the warning does suggest checking the FCA register, it doesnt 
explain why this is important or what steps Mrs B should take if the company wasnt on the FCA register. I think that is particularly important in this case as Mrs B was the victim of a 
cryptocurrency scam, and the cryptocurrency app that was being used to trade wasnt listed 
on the FCA warning list or on the FCA register.
On that basis, Im not satisfied that Barclays have shown that Mrs B ignored an effective 
warning.
However, because of the size of the first two payments (being £400 and £1,000), I wouldnt 
have expected Barclays to identify a fraud risk and therefore wouldnt expect them to have 
given a warning. So, Barclays offer to refund 50% of the second payment made for £1,000 
is more than I wouldve recommended.
But I think a warning shouldve been given when Mrs B made the third payment of £5,000 on 
24 February 2021. Especially considering that on 23 February, Barclays have a recorded 
note that Mrs B attempted to make another payment of £5,000 which was blocked by their 
system.
The note says they tried to call Mrs B but couldnt get hold of her  so they blocked her 
online banking.
Im satisfied that at this point, Barclays shouldve identified that Mrs B was potentially at risk 
from financial harm and intervened before allowing further payments to be made. I think a 
call with Mrs B at this point wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented Mrs B from making 
any further payments. I say this because the trading was suggested by someone who 
contacted T out of the blue and who he hadnt met, also because Mrs B was not familiar with 
cryptocurrency or trading in cryptocurrencies. Whereas Barclays were aware of these types 
of scams in February 2021 and shouldve identified the warning signs based on what Mrs B 
wouldve told them.
Also, Im not satisfied that Barclays adequately discussed fraud risks with Mrs B and T when 
they went into the Barclays branch in March. The notes Barclays have provided suggest  
Mrs B wasnt aware of the risks of crypto trading and more importantly that Mrs B mayve 
been coerced into the transaction. It says that staff spoke to Mrs B separately, but the notes 
suggest that they talked to her about the risk relating to returns associated with investing in 
cryptocurrency without any reference to the risk of cryptocurrency scams or a relevant 
warning being given. Also, there is nothing to say what satisfied Barclays staff that Mrs B 
wasnt being coerced into allowing the transactions.
Barclays have told us that they have concerns Mrs B was allowing T to use her account by 
sharing her security credentials with him, however when they were made aware of this in 
March, I cant see that they considered whether they shouldve activated the banking 
protocol in order to safeguard Mrs B.
Overall, I think Barclays shouldve intervened after they stopped the payment on 23 
February 2021, and that any probing conversation with Mrs B wouldve uncovered the scam 
and prevented her from making any further payments. So, Barclays should refund Mrs B 
from payment 3 onwards.
However, I also need to consider whether Mrs B had a reasonable basis for believing the 
investment was legitimate, in order to decide whether there is any shared liability for Mrs Bs 
loss.
Did Mrs B have a reasonable basis for belief?
T has provided several reasons why he believed this was a legitimate investment, including:He believed he had developed a friendship with X and could trust them.
He shared the app with a friend who had experience in trading, and they didnt 
suggest it might be a scam.
The branch staff looked at the app when he was in the branch with Mrs B and didnt 
suggest it might be a scam.
He did an online search for the app company but couldnt find any information  and 
he thought this was because it was a Chinese company.
X told him that he could lose the money hed invested to trade with.
However, there were several red flags with the information T had including:
X had contacted T out of the blue via a social media website. She wasnt someone 
that T knew, and it wasnt long after theyd started talking that he started taking 
investment advice from her. While he had extensive conversations daily with X, Im 
not satisfied that its reasonable to trust someone hed met so recently and didnt 
know with regards to investment advice.
T says that when he searched online for the app company, he couldnt find any 
information about it. However, I would expect any large reputable organisation that is 
providing investment and trading facilities to have an international presence online  
so not finding anything about them shouldve been concerning.
All of these points build into Ts reasonable basis for believing that this was a legitimate 
investment, which is important in this case, as it also has an impact on Mrs Bs basis for 
belief. Because most of the information Mrs B had and relied on in making the decision to 
allow the payments from her account came from T.
But ultimately, I need to reach a decision based on whether I think Mrs B had a reasonable 
basis for believing this was a legitimate investment. Although its unclear exactly how much 
information T gave Mrs B, the Barclays notes from their discussion in branch support that 
Mrs T was aware that the payments were for cryptocurrency and that she knew some risk 
was involved.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mrs B had enough information in order to 
reasonably believe this was legitimate. I say this because Im not satisfied that she fully 
understood who the funds were being invested with, how the trading would work, whether 
the company that provided the app was genuine or whether the information she was given 
was reliable. So, I wouldve expected her to complete some independent checks which 
couldve included getting independent advice from someone experienced in cryptocurrency 
trading, or cryptocurrency investments. T says that Mrs B watched some online videos about 
cryptocurrency, however Im not satisfied that this is sufficient research based on the 
information she had about the investment.
Also, Im concerned that when Barclays placed blocks on Mrs Bs account due to a payment 
flagging, that the payments were changed and sent to Ts account as a stopover before 
being forwarded to the trading platform. Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for Mrs B and 
T to find ways to negate the banks security measures in order to continue making 
payments.
On that basis, Im satisfied that Mrs B should share the responsibility for her loss with 
Barclays, whereby Barclays should only refund 50% of the payments she made from 
payment 3 onwards  excluding payment 6 which theyve already refunded 50% of.The interest award
As I believe Barclays shouldve intervened from payment 3, I intend to ask Barclays to pay 
interest on the refunds from the date of the payments until the date of settlement  excluding 
payment 6 which theyve already paid interest on. And, as the payments were funded by 
transfers out of Mrs Bs ISA account, the interest should be calculated at the account rate 
applicable to her ISA account.
The impact on Mrs B of the scam
Mrs B has told us about the severe impact this has had on her health, including the high 
levels of stress shes experienced and an inability to sleep. Mrs B has also told us about an 
incident that resulted in her son calling emergency services, which she says was a result of 
the stress.
I realise that Mrs B lost a significant sum of money, and dont wish to under play the severity 
of the impact on her. But I must take into consideration that most of the stress was caused 
by the scammer who defrauded her, and I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for the scammers 
actions or the impact of their actions.
So, in making an award for distress and inconvenience I can only look at Barclays actions, 
and whether I think they directly caused any additional distress to Mrs B. I think its also 
important to explain the awards that we make for distress and inconvenience are modest.
Having very carefully considered what Mrs B has told us and taking into account my findings 
above that had Barclays intervened further they couldve uncovered the scam and prevented 
some of the payments  I intend to ask Barclays to pay Mrs B £400 in compensation. As, if 
Barclays had stepped in earlier, I think the impact on Mrs B and the level of stress she 
experienced wouldve been reduced. The £400 is in addition to the £50 theyve already paid 
her.
Putting things right
I said I intended to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Mrs B £11,314.14 (being 50% of payments 3, 4, 7,8 and 9),
Pay interest on the above refund at the account interest rate applicable to Mrs Bs 
ISA account from the date of the payments until the date of settlement,
Pay Mrs B £400 for her distress and inconvenience (this is in addition to the £50 
theyve already paid her).
Response to my provisional decision
Barclays responded to my provisional decision, saying they didnt have anything further to 
add.
Mrs Bs representative responded and provided a lengthy submission. As part of that they 
raised the following points:
Money was never lost as a result of the trades.
T disputes the time they spent on the phone with Barclays when they went into the 
branch  saying they were on hold twice for 45 minutes and once for 30 minutes.
The branch staff took their phone behind closed doors, so T and Mrs B couldnt see what checks they did, but they believed they had verified the app.
Barclays contact notes from the phone call with T and Mrs B are untrue. Barclays 
never discussed anything about the risk of cryptocurrency investment or trading and 
neither T nor Mrs B said they understood any risks. The only thing that happened 
during the call was that the account was unlocked.
Mrs B didnt transfer the money to Ts account to get around the blocks on her 
account, they didnt know why the payments werent going through. They say it 
couldve happened because of internet connection or server connection problems.
Barclays no longer allow payments to made to one of the cryptocurrency exchanges 
that payments were made to. Barclays wouldve been aware when Mrs B made these 
payments about the risks for any payments made to that cryptocurrency exchange, 
so they shouldve taken this action sooner which wouldve prevented Mrs Bs loss.
Ive reviewed the case again in order to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I havent addressed each point that Mrs B and her representative raised in response to my 
provisional decision, however Id like to reassure them that I have fully considered all the 
points theyve made in reaching my answer.
T disputes some of the detail I included in the background setting out what happened. This 
detail was taken from the information provided to either our service or Barclays as part of 
Mrs Bs complaint. One of the points T disputes is that he lost money as a result of trades.  
However, hes provided a copy of his online chat with X which says: I cant say to my mum I 
lost it otherwise she will not be happy and not want to do it again. This comment was made 
in February 2021 and suggests that he believed hed lost funds as a result of his trading. 
Some of the other details T disagrees with also contradict evidence or testimony that forms 
part of this case.
T also raised concerns about the investigators opinion. However, the investigators opinion 
was included as part of the background to explain the result of their review of Mrs Bs case. 
The points T had raised in response to the investigators opinion were considered and were 
the reason that the case was put forward for an ombudsman to review and issue a decision.
Did Mrs B have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was genuine
T says that Mrs B trusted what he told her about the investment, that his friend who was 
experienced in cryptocurrency trading believed the app they used for trading was genuine, 
and that Barclays endorsed the app they were using and told them that they could withdraw 
their funds.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I need to reach an answer based on knowledge 
Mrs B had in authorising these payments.
T has strongly disputed the contact notes provided by Barclays which suggest that T and 
Mrs B were told about the risk of cryptocurrency trading or investing. However, the contact notes that Barclays have provided, were entered by three separate staff members. On 
balance, I think its more likely than not that they are a reasonable approximation of the 
conversation that was held. Also, I think its important to note that as part of Ts chat with X, 
its clear that T was aware of the volatility of cryptocurrency prior to investing. I say this 
because on the following comments he made: 
6/2/2021  T: but I heard bitcoin can be quite volatile
9/2/2021  T: obviously I dont want to lost the money
Its unclear whether T clearly explained to Mrs B the possible risks involved in 
cryptocurrency trading/investing, however I think its more likely than not that Barclays did 
mention something about possible risk. 
T has provided no further evidence to show that Mrs B completed any checks with regards to 
the legitimacy of the investment or what she was told by T. He says they relied on Barclays 
endorsing the app they were using, and Mrs B believing what T told her about the 
investment. However, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude that Barclays told Mrs B 
that the app was genuine, and the notes entered by Barclays staff (during the branch visit in 
March 2021) suggest that Mrs B was told to do as much research as possible before 
continuing to make payments. 
Also, this advice is similar to what Mrs B wouldve seen in the warning that was provided 
when she tried to make the payment of £5,000. While this message wasnt an effective 
warning under the CRM Code, it shouldve raised concerns for Mrs B and T about the risk of 
investment scams and the need to complete independent checks.
Online searches show postings as early as 2020, which suggest the app that Mrs B and T 
were using for their trading could be a scam, so its likely that if Mrs B had completed some 
independent checks she wouldnt have made this investment. Taking all of these points into 
account, including the ones set out in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that Mrs B 
had sufficient basis for believing the investment was genuine.
 
T has highlighted that Barclays no longer allow payments to the cryptocurrency exchange, 
however this wasnt in place at the time Mrs B made the payments. But I accept that 
Barclays wouldve been aware of cryptocurrency scams, which is part of the reason why I 
think they shouldve and couldve uncovered the scam and prevented Mrs Bs loss from the 
third payment onwards. In deciding Mrs Bs case, I can only apply the regulations, laws and 
industry guidelines that were in place at the time she made the payments so cant 
retrospectively apply an approach that Barclays has now taken.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but having carefully considered all of the points that she and 
her representative have made, Im not persuaded to change my decision from that reached 
in my provisional decision. On that basis, Barclays should refund 50% of payments 3, 4, 7, 8 
and 9 and pay interest on that refund at the account interest rate applicable to Mrs Bs ISA 
account, from the date of the payments until the date of settlement. Barclays should also pay 
Mrs B £400 for her distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Refund Mrs B £11,314.14 (being 50% of payments 3, 4, 7,8 and 9),
Pay interest on the above refund at the account interest rate applicable to Mrs Bs 
ISA account from the date of the payments until the date of settlement,Pay Mrs B £400 for her distress and inconvenience (this is in addition to the £50 
theyve already paid her).
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
require them to compensate Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman