DRN-4465381
The complaint
Mr D, Mr F and Ms P complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to cancel their 
motor insurance policy. 
Ms P is the policyholder and has acted as the main representative during the complaint 
process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by 
either Mr D, Mr F or Ms P as Ms P throughout the decision.   
What happened
Ms P took out a policy with UKI in October 2022 through a comparison site. Ms P says she 
was then made aware in June 2023 that her policy had been cancelled in March. Ms P 
complained to UKI about the cancellation and about their communication leading up to this. 
In particular, Ms P complained that UKI didnt attempt to call her or text her which wouldve 
alerted her to the issue.  
UKI responded and explained the policy was cancelled as Ms P didnt adhere to the 
DriveSure terms and conditions she accepted when she purchased her policy. They 
explained a condition of the policy was for Ms P to record her driving data on UKIs 
DriveSure App (App). They said the DriveSure scheme was highlighted throughout the 
online sales journey, as well as being mentioned in the policy documents. UKI said, prior to 
cancelling the policy, they sent a DriveSure reminder email and App push notification asking 
Ms P to record her journeys or the policy would be cancelled. They said they didnt hear 
back from Ms P about this, and no journeys were recorded, so they wrote to Ms P to say the 
policy would be cancelled unless she activated the App and contacted UKI to make sure 
everything was ok. UKI said no contact was received, and no journeys were recorded, so the 
policy was cancelled. UKI explained, as the policy was cancelled correctly, Ms P would need 
to declare this when asked.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P. She thought UKI hadnt acted unfairly in 
cancelling the policy, or in their communication with Ms P. Ms P disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ms P used a comparison site to get a quote for an insurance policy. UKI have provided a 
screenshot of the online sales journey through the comparison site, and this makes it clear 
the DriveSure scheme applies to the policy  and theres a link to the DriveSure telematics 
terms and conditions. I can see UKI then sent Ms P an email quoting a price for the policy 
and setting out some benefits of the policy. One of the listed benefits says, DriveSure 
followed by a description which says, Telematics insurance that offers discounts for being a 
safe driver. 
Ms P then took out the policy and a welcome email then followed which confirmed Ms P had 
taken out UKIs DriveSure policy. Under a heading What happens next?, it says, Your 
policy documents are already on their way to you. So nows a good time to read your 
telematics policys terms and conditions. Theyre at the bottom of this email. If you dont stick 
to the T&Cs, we may have to cancel your policy. And that could affect you when you try to 
buy insurance in future. The email asks Ms P to download the App and says, Using the app 
is a condition of your policyYoure responsible for downloading the app. Once youve done 
this, please register with the personal details you used to buy the policy and record all your 
journeys. 
Then under a heading Recording your journeys, it explains how the app records journeys 
and says, If you dont record a journey for 14 days in a row and dont tell us, we may cancel 
your policy. Further in the telematics terms and conditions it says, If we dont detect a 
journey through your DriveSure App for 14 consecutive days we reserve the right to cancel 
your policy. This may affect your ability to purchase insurance in the future. If you know that 
you will not be making a journey for 14 consecutive days you must notify us immediately. I 
can see the terms and conditions also provide instructions on the steps Ms P will need to 
take on her phone settings to enable the App to record journeys and it says, It is a condition 
of your policy that all journeys that you undertake in your car are recorded by the DriveSure 
App.   
UKI hadnt received any driving data, so they sent an email to Ms P. The subject line reads 
Dont forget to record your journeys and says, Weve spotted that you havent recorded 
any journeys for ten consecutive days. Its important that your journeys are logged, as this is 
a condition of your policy and we may have to cancel your cover if this condition isnt met. 
Under a separate heading which reads Dont lose your cover, it again reminds Ms P that 
UKI may look to cancel her policy if no journeys are recorded for 14 consecutive days and 
this may affect her ability to buy insurance in the future. A push notification was also sent 
through the App letting Ms P know it had been 10 consecutive days since a journey was 
recorded, and the policy may be cancelled if no journey has been recorded for 14 days. I can 
see a letter was then sent in February 2023 to say UKI are cancelling the policy in two 
weeks because Ms P hadnt activated the App that was agreed as part of her policy. Under a 
heading How to stop your cancellation it explains Ms P needs to activate the App and call 
UKI to confirm everything is ok before the cancellation date. Having not heard back, UKI 
then send a letter to Ms P after the two-week period confirming the policy has been 
cancelled. 
So, taking this all into account, I cant say UKI have acted unreasonably in cancelling the 
policy. I think the policy terms and conditions made it clear Ms P had taken out a DriveSure 
policy and there were specific terms which Ms P needed to comply with to avoid the risk of 
her policy being cancelled. I think UKI took reasonable steps to alert Ms P about non-
compliance with the terms relating to driving data not being recorded  and I think this gave 
Ms P a reasonable opportunity to rectify this to avoid the policy being cancelled. UKI have 
also provided a screenshot of their system which shows no journeys were recorded by Ms P, 
and I havent seen any evidence Ms P notified them she wouldnt be using her car for 14 
days or longer. So, I think there has been non-compliance with the terms and conditions of 
the policy, so I cant say UKIs decision to cancel the policy was unfair. 
I can see Ms P says she wasnt aware of the DriveSure scheme and UKI say Ms P mustve 
been aware of this and the requirement to record driving data as she did download and 
register the App. Ms P says she did download the App, but this was because she received 
the initial email from UKI to say this needed to be done. Ms P says this doesnt mean she 
knew about the requirement to record driving data and she feels UKI are unfairly implying 
she was lying. Ms P says many insurance companies require policyholders to download an 
app and she probably thought it was to access policy documents. I do acknowledge Ms Ps points and I can see it was clearly upsetting for her to be told she 
mustve been aware of the requirement to record driving data because she downloaded the 
App. I think UKI have made an assumption here. And although I think its a reasonable 
assumption that a policyholder, who has downloaded the App, has likely read the terms and 
conditions covering why the App needs to be downloaded, I agree with Ms Ps point that it 
doesnt definitely mean she did. Ms P acknowledges she didnt read all the terms and 
conditions and thought she was taking out a standard car insurance policy and not a 
telematics related policy. That said, and while I can see there may be an argument for 
saying downloading the App doesnt necessarily mean that Ms P was aware of the 
requirement to record driving data, Im satisfied the other sections of the terms and 
conditions did though make it clear Ms Ps policy was part of the DriveSure scheme and it 
was a requirement to record driving data  so I think the information about this was clear 
even if Ms P didnt read it.   
I acknowledge Ms P has concerns about the communication methods used by UKI to inform 
her about the driving data issues. Ms P says UKI shouldve attempted to call her or text her, 
and had they done so, it wouldve alerted her to the issue. I do acknowledge Ms Ps points 
here, but I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for UKI to communicate with 
Ms P in the way they did. I can see UKI used three different communication methods, there 
was email, post and an App notification. 
In the case of the App notification, UKI have provided a communication log showing this was 
sent. UKI say their system will only show this on the communication log if its been 
successfully sent. So, given this is showing on there, Im persuaded it was sent. In the case 
of the emails, Ms P says around the time UKI were sending emails about non-compliance, 
she was going through a very difficult time and reading emails from insurance companies 
was certainly not something I had the time or energy to do. In the case of the letter giving 
notice to cancel the policy, Ms P says she didnt open it at the time until she found it in July 
when she raised her complaint. 
I do acknowledge Ms P was going through very difficult personal circumstances at the time 
the emails were sent to her, and I am sorry to hear about this. But I cant see UKI were made 
aware of any communication needs Ms P mightve required during this time. In the absence 
of this, I think it was reasonable that UKI used three different methods of communication. I 
understand Ms P feels strongly that UKI shouldve called or text her, but Im looking at whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. And in the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think UKI needed to communicate in any way above and beyond what they did. While I 
acknowledge why Ms P believes it wouldve been beneficial to receive a call or text, it 
doesnt mean UKI have acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. 
In any event, I can see UKI have said theyll provide feedback to the relevant department 
about this. So, while I havent upheld the complaint, and our service doesnt have the power 
to direct a business on what their process should be, I hope Ms P feels reassured her 
feedback about calling or texting customers about cancellation has been passed on by UKI.      
 
I note Ms P says she wasnt aware of the cancellation, and it was only in June that she 
discovered she was uninsured for the previous three months. I acknowledge this will have 
been upsetting and frustrating for Ms P and I also recognise the inconvenience it caused in 
then having to urgently find alternative cover, which Ms P says was at a higher price due to 
not being able to take this out in advance. The policy terms and conditions set out the steps 
UKI will take if cancelling the policy and this says theyll give at least seven days notice and 
theyll send this to the latest address they hold. Having looked through the information, Im 
satisfied UKI did follow the terms and conditions around cancellation. The letter sent notifying Ms P of their intention to cancel the policy gave two weeks notice and was sent to 
the address they held for Ms P  and I note from Ms Ps testimony this letter was received. 
So, while I acknowledge the impact on Ms P, I cant say UKI have made an error in the way 
they communicated the cancellation. 
I understand Ms P will be disappointed, but I hope she feels reassured Ive carefully 
considered the information here. I acknowledge the impact this event has had on Ms P, but I 
cant say UKI have acted unfairly in cancelling the policy or in their communication with     
Ms P. I wish to reassure Ms P Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, Mr F and Ms 
P to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman