DRN-3606820
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) stopped offering 
her cover under a Shower Breakdown Protection policy.
What happened
Miss G had a policy with Homeserve for several years to cover the breakdown of her 
shower. Homeserve wrote to Miss G to say it had reviewed its range of products and would 
no longer be offering shower breakdown cover to its customers.
Miss G complained to Homeserve. She said it was unlawful for it to stop offering the policy. 
She also said Homeserve should refund all of the premiums she had paid. When Homeserve 
replied, it confirmed that Miss G had cover in place until the policy renewal date. It was 
unable to refund the premiums as cover was in place for each of the months that premiums 
had been paid.
When Miss G complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said 
Homeserve was entitled to stop offering the policy and Miss G wasnt entitled to a refund of 
premiums because the cover remained in place until the policy was withdrawn.  
As Miss G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Homeserve wrote to Miss G to tell her that, at the renewal date for her policy, it would no 
longer be able to offer her cover for shower breakdowns. This was because it had reviewed 
the policies it offered and taken a business decision no longer to offer this type of policy to its 
customers. Businesses are entitled to make commercial decision about the types of policies 
they offer. Sometimes this means that businesses stop offering policies that were previously 
available to customers, as was the case here. Although I can understand that Miss G is 
unhappy about Homeserves decision, it was entitled to make it.
Miss G has said Homeserve should refund all of her premiums. In the letter Homeserve sent 
explaining cover would come to an end at the renewal date, it confirmed that cover would 
remain in place until that date. This meant that had Miss G needed to make a claim she 
could have done so. So, I cant see any reason why Homeserve needs to refund the 
premiums.
I also note that Homeserve wrote to Miss G just over a month before the policy was due to 
renew. This meant Miss G had time to find a new policy if she wanted to find cover 
elsewhere for her shower. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Homeserve to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman