DRN-3340435
The complaint
Mr O acquired a new car in October 2017, by means of a 48-month contract hire agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). His agreement ended in 
October 2021, when his car was inspected and collected from his home by MBFSs agent. 
He complains about some charges subsequently invoiced by MBFS, relating to damage to 
his car beyond normal wear and tear. He wants these charges to be withdrawn. 
What happened
Mr Os car was taken by MBFSs collection agent from his home to its premises, where a 
second inspection was undertaken three days later. This identified damage items not 
recorded during the first inspection. 
Mr O said that these damages were not present during the first inspection, and that they 
must have occurred after the car was collected from his home. So, he is unwilling to accept 
responsibility for them, and MBFS should withdraw them. The car travelled 100 miles 
between the first and second inspections.  
MBFS responded to Mr O in early November 2021:
It pointed out it had told him before his agreement ended that his car would be 
inspected twice, once during collection from his home, and again at its agents 
premises 
It provided to him video evidence of both inspections
It also pointed out that his car was dirty and weather conditions were poor during the 
first collection, which could disguise some damage items  the second inspection 
was undertaken in correct conditions
It added that its agent would report any damage which occurred during transit, and 
the agent had confirmed that no damage was caused 
It agreed to reduce one of the damage charges by just under £240, but it would not 
withdraw the damage charges disputed by Mr O
Mr O referred his complaint to us in December 2021. He told us:
His car had been driven from his home MBFSs agents premises about 25 miles 
away
It was then taken by transporter to other premises several hundred miles away
It should then have been driven to different premises about 30 miles away
But it was actually driven about 45 further miles by an employee of the agent, which 
he thinks was for non-work-related purposes  this included taking it to the 
employees home and parking it there overnight 
There was no evidence that his car was securely parked or inspected during this 
overnight stay
But MBFS said, in a late November 2021 email to Mr O, that his car was not used by its 
agents employee for non-work-related purposes.
Mr O also told us that, in addition to the damage charges, MBFS had invoiced him for 
excess mileage. He had already paid this charge, together with the charges of a little over 
£200 for damage items identified in his cars first inspection, making a total of just over 
£2,000. But he continued to dispute charges of just under £700.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld:
She reviewed the video evidence for both inspections, and she said that she was 
able to see the damage items disputed by Mr O
She acknowledged that some of the disputed damage items were not visible in the 
first inspection video, but she also noted the adverse weather conditions that reduced 
visibility during this inspection
She felt that damage items could still be chargeable, even if they were not visible 
during the first inspection
She noted that Mr Os car had travelled a little over 59,000 miles from when he 
acquired it to the first inspection, and only another 100 miles to the second inspection
Taking the above in account, she felt the likelihood that the additional damages 
identified during the second inspection occurred before the first inspection, was 
greater than the likelihood that these damages occurred after the first inspection
She also noted Mr Os points relating to the additional mileage his car travelled 
between inspections, but she did not feel these offered enough reasons to change 
her view about the above relative likelihoods
In the circumstances, she was sufficiently satisfied that MBFSs agents had 
undertaken the inspections within industry guidelines
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr O. He feels that he is being asked to pay nearly £700 which he should 
not be charged, and that MBFSs agent did not do a good job when it collected his car. (He 
also questions how our investigator could see the disputed damage items in the first 
inspection video evidence. But my understanding is that our investigator was referring to 
both first and second inspection videos.)  
The reasons why Mr O should not be charged could include:
The items of damage concerned do not exist, or do not exceed industry guidelines for 
normal wear and tear
The items do exist, but they relate to damage that occurred after the car was 
collected from his home
It is unfortunate that the first inspection of Mr Os car was undertaken in poor conditions, 
which increased the chances that items of damage could have been missed. But this 
possibility always exists, where there are two inspections and conditions for the second are 
better (not affected by rain, improved lighting, cleaner vehicle). So, we rely on photographic 
or video evidence to inform decision making. Although such evidence does not necessarily help us to decide whether damage has 
occurred after the first of two inspections. And the chance of such occurrences obviously 
increases with elapsed time and distance travelled between two inspections. 
Mr O argues, in effect, that the agent did not take good care of his car and allowed it to be 
used for a purpose, for which it should not have been used  thereby increasing the 
possibility of it being damaged. In contradiction, MBFS argues that the car was not used for 
an improper purpose. But there is no evidence supporting either the argument for, or the 
argument against, improper use.
I have reviewed all the evidence and it is not conclusive. So, I must consider the balance of 
probabilities. In these circumstances, I find that:
I am unable to disagree with our investigator, who said it is unlikely that damage 
occurred between the two inspections
The items of damage identified in the second inspection (including those missed in 
the first inspection) appear to exceed industry guidelines for normal wear and tear
This means that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman