DRN-3921009
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mrs and Mr S held until recently with 
Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). Theyre unhappy because they say that BOS misled them into 
thinking they could continue paying interest at a fixed rate in the period between the expiry of 
the fixed rate deal and the mortgage being repaid from the sale of their home.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr S and BOS Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S mortgage was due to be repaid by 31 July 2022; they were planning to 
achieve that by selling their home. BOS was willing to give them a grace period for the sale 
to go through. Meanwhile, their existing fixed rate deal was also ending on 31 July 2022, and 
when they asked on the phone if the terms of the mortgage would stay the same during the 
grace period, they were told yes. In reality, the mortgage went onto BOS standard variable 
rate (SVR) on 1 August 2022, and their monthly payment went up significantly. 
Mrs and Mr S complained, saying BOS should have extended the fixed rate until the house 
was sold and the mortgage repaid. In its response, BOS said that it hadnt been asked 
specifically if the interest rate would stay the same, but agreed the call handler should have 
read between the lines. It apologised and paid Mrs and Mr R £40 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that in broad terms, BOS had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt 
recommend it be upheld. But he did think BOS should increase its compensation award from 
£40 to £150 in total. BOS agreed to do that, but Mrs and Mr S have asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
Its common ground that BOS could have done a better job of informing Mrs and Mr S on the 
phone about what would happen during the grace period after the fixed rate deal and 
mortgage term had expired. Its also right that BOS should compensate Mrs and Mr S for not 
doing a better job, and I agree with the investigator that £150 in total is fair in the 
circumstances.  
However, those conversations arent ultimately what the wider outcome of the complaint 
turns on. Thats because, where a consumer has been given incorrect information, we dont 
tell the business to put the consumer into the position theyd be in if the incorrect information 
had been correct. Rather, we tell the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be 
in if the correct information had been given in the first place. Here the information was not so 
much incorrect as incomplete and potentially misleading, but the general principle holds.
Mrs and Mr S say they have been charged interest at a much higher rate than agreed. Im 
afraid theyre mistaken. I said a moment ago that the content of the phone calls isnt what 
the case turns on; what it does turn on is the agreement Mrs and Mr S entered into with BOS 
when the mortgage was put onto the final fixed rate deal before redemption. That agreement 
was entered into in April 2020, and it specified the following:
the mortgage term was two years, four months;
the fixed interest period was two years, four months; and
if the mortgage was still in place after two years and four months, interest would be 
charged at the SVR.
What that means is that Mrs and Mr S have been charged interest at exactly the same rates 
that were agreed. It also means that, notwithstanding any ambiguity or shortcoming there 
may have been in what BOS told them on the phone in 2022, Mrs and Mr S were always in 
possession of the correct information, by virtue of their mortgage offer from 2020.
Mrs and Mr S say that if they hadnt been misled on the phone, theyd have had more time to 
consult their financial adviser about sourcing short-term, lower-cost finance to repay the 
mortgage. I have to say Im not convinced how likely it is that Mrs and Mr S could have 
saved money doing that, given the likely fees and set up costs involved. But as Ive already 
found they had the correct information all along, in writing, Mrs and Mr S could have started 
such an enquiry as soon they knew theyd need more time after the mortgage expiry date to 
complete the sale.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I order Bank of Scotland plc to 
pay Mrs and Mr S £110, on top of the £40 already paid, making £150 in all. I make no other 
order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman