DRN-1099557
Complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed in its duty of care. He says this 
led to him being targeted by criminals following a large cash withdrawal from his local 
branch.
Mr A says that had Santanders security been better, this would have prevented the crime 
from being carried out.
Background
On 31 May 2019, Mr A visited a branch of Santander and withdrew a large sum of cash. The 
withdrawal was processed at one of the branch counters. Shortly after Mr A left the branch, 
he was attacked by thieves and robbed of his money. 
Mr A complained to Santander about the level of security it offered in-branch for customers 
withdrawing large cash sums. He believes that the thieves had been watching him in the 
branch and had specifically targeted him for the cash hed withdrawn at the counter. Mr A 
says Santander knew in advance he was withdrawing a large sum of cash and, as a result, 
ought to have offered him alternative transaction arrangements, such as a bank transfer. He 
also says Santander should have recommended that he have someone accompany him 
while he withdrew the cash.
As part of his complaint, Mr A has said that Santander had a duty of care towards its 
customers and was responsible for the security in the branch. He says that had Santander 
taken their security more seriously, he wouldnt have ended up in the situation he found 
himself in. As a result, Mr A would like Santander to refund him the money that was taken 
from him.
Santander said it was sympathetic to what had happened to Mr A and explained that it did 
take customer welfare and security seriously. It didnt, however, think it had done anything 
wrong and was therefore not going to compensate Mr A for his loss.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt feel that Santander 
had done anything wrong. As Mr A didnt agree with our investigators findings, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold   Mr As 
complaint.
 
Id like to start by acknowledging how upsetting the assault and robbery must have been for 
Mr A and I accept that this must have been a very distressing experience. But, having 
considered all the available information, I cant reasonably ask Santander to do anything. I 
appreciate that this will come as disappointing news to Mr A.Mr A believes Santander has a general duty of care towards its customers and that it should 
have done more to ensure his safety and security while he was in-branch. 
Santander has told us that it didnt think that it had failed in its duty of care. In support of this, 
it says that Mr A was a select customer and was therefore entitled to request to withdraw up 
to £10,000 from an in-branch counter. It says that while it discouraged customers from 
withdrawing large amounts of cash wherever possible, the cash could ultimately be obtained 
over the counter at the customers request. 
Having thought about what both parties have said, I agree that Santander does have a duty 
of care towards its customers. I do, however, think that the cause of Mr As loss was a result 
of criminal activity beyond the reasonable control of a bank, rather than something 
Santander did or didnt do in this case.
Even if I were to assume that Santander ought to have done more in this instance, the key 
thing for me to consider is whether Mr A would have done anything differently if hed been 
given the information he says he should have been given. Based on what Ive seen, I think 
its unlikely Mr A would have acted differently. Ill explain why.
Mr A says Santander ought to have told him about alternative transaction arrangements. He 
says this may have prevented the situation he found himself in.  
But Santander has provided our service with a transaction history of Mr As account. This 
shows that Mr A had transferred large sums of money to and from his current account in the 
past. The transaction history also shows that in the months prior to the robbery, Mr A had 
been drawing large cash amounts on a monthly basis. This demonstrates that Mr A would or 
ought reasonably to have been aware of the fact that he could have done something 
different, such as arranging for large payments to be made by way of an electronic funds 
transfer. This also suggests that Mr A was making large cash withdrawals for a specific 
purpose, knowing the transaction options available to him. So, even if I were to agree that 
Santander ought to have told Mr A about his transaction options, Im not persuaded that this 
would have made a difference to his decision to withdraw the cash on the day in question  
or to the sequence of events that followed. 
Mr A also says that Santander should have suggested that he have someone accompany 
him while he was in the branch withdrawing the cash. I think its reasonable to assume that 
Mr A or any person, would have understood there was a risk in carrying around such a large 
sum of money whether accompanied or alone; and that he might reasonably have thought 
about the potential risks before or at the time he was requesting the cash withdrawal. So, 
even if Santander had suggested that someone accompany him, I think its unlikely that he 
would have done anything different or the crime would have been prevented.
Theres no persuasive evidence that Santander negligently breached its duty of care and/or 
contractual obligations. Ive not been made aware of any breach of statutory or regulatory 
duty either. But even if, for arguments sake, it could have done more, I am not satisfied 
theres a causal connection between Santanders acts or omissions and the criminal 
activities of third parties that took place outside its premises. 
Taking everything into account, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make Santander 
reimburse Mr A for his losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman