DRN-3963950
The complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker about him to CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr O says that he found out about the marker when he tried to open an account elsewhere. 
He says he wasnt involved in any fraudulent activity and thinks his bank card must have 
been stolen.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received information that a payment made 
into Mr Os account had been fraudulently obtained. It had blocked his account and told him 
that it would be closed. Metro Bank said it had grounds to apply the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr O had opened the 
account in March 2021 and there had been little activity. Monzo Bank had referred to the 
address relating to his account being changed on 15 April 2021 and then changed back to 
the original one on 13 May 2021 with further changes after that. Mr O had told her that he 
lost his card on the bus and had gone to the bus station to try and find it. He had told Monzo 
Bank about this and was then informed that the account was frozen due to suspicious 
activity. A credit of £1,574.39 had been paid onto Mr Os account on 13 May 2021 and was 
reported as fraudulently obtained. An unknown third party would need to know Mr Os 
account details to be able to do so, and these werent provided on the card. So, she thought 
he was complicit in what happened and that there were grounds to add the CIFAS marker 
and close his account.
Mr O who has a representative in this complaint didnt agree and wanted it to be reviewed. 
He said that he was the victim of fraud and didnt know who carried this out. He doesnt 
know where the funds came from. He felt let down by our response to his complaint. He said 
that when he knew about the loss of his card he informed Monzo Bank. So, he expected that 
his account would be put on hold. He has now found an email about the closure of the 
account but didnt recall seeing this until 2022. He wanted to know why Monzo Bank hadnt 
restricted or blocked his account to stop this happening. He has reported this matter and he 
says been unsuccessful in getting further information for the authorities. He wants to know 
what the other addresses referred to are. Mr O provided details of his recent 
correspondence with Monzo Bank about a data subject access request and said that he was 
dissatisfied with this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution, and I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened but will be thinking about what is most likely. And if Mr O doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and the evidence 
must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr O was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Im satisfied that the money credited into Mr Os account was fraudulently obtained. And he 
doesnt say that he was entitled to this money. This was quickly identified by Monzo Bank 
and the account blocked and Mr O was informed about this.
Mr O says he lost his bank card. There is no record of him telling Monzo Bank about that at 
the time or discussing what happened. He says that his account was already blocked when 
he went online, and he thought that this was the reason. Monzo Bank further told him that 
his account would be closed, and I cant see he did anything about that at the time taking 
into account that on his version of events all that had happened was that hed lost his card.
As our adjudicator has pointed out the account number and sort code wouldnt be included 
on his card. And hed only used the card for a few small payments with the last one on 14 
April 2021. If a third party was going to take over his account in the way he says must have 
happened then thered need to be a way for that person to access the money. There is no 
evidence that his PIN had been compromised. Thered been no new device registered to 
access the account other than the one hed been using. So, I cant see how a third party 
would have discovered the information necessary to access the money. And Id expect that 
to have been done before the credit came in and possibly to have involved a test payment. 
I appreciate that his address had been changed and he refers to the different one in his 
complaint form. I can see why hes suspicious about that, but I cant see how that would 
and did here have assisted a third party in getting access to his details. I cant see that any 
statement had been issued before this credit and how an earlier address change would be 
connected to what he says was the theft of his card about a month later. I dont have any 
address information other than the ones hes provided in his complaint form, and I dont 
rely on that information in making my decision. It would be up to the relevant authorities to 
ask Monzo Bank for any information they wanted. I know Mr O said he is unhappy with a data subject access request hes made to Monzo Bank, and its rightly told him he can refer 
that to the Information Commissioners Office if he wants to. I can also see that it wrote to 
this service to say it had provided all the information and also that our adjudicator had 
asked Mr O if this was the case and hadnt had a response.
Im afraid I dont consider Mr O has given a plausible version of what happened even if I 
accept that his card was lost or stolen. I dont rule out him allowing someone else to have 
access to his account. I note his age at the time but see no evidence he was placed under 
any duress or tricked into providing his details. So, I find he would be equally responsible 
for what someone else hed allowed access to his account did. And I consider it most likely 
he was complicit in what happened.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Monzo Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr O received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr O had attempted to use fraudulently 
obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
In light of this I consider it had grounds to close his account under the terms and conditions 
and Im afraid I wont be asking to do anything more. I appreciate how disappointed Mr O will 
be given what he says about the impact of the marker for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman