DRN-2968276
The complaint
J is unhappy with the compensation offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc following misinformation 
by one of its advisers, which resulted in the closure of Js account.
What happened
J holds a business bank account with HSBC. In February 2020, HSBC contacted J asking 
for it to confirm its trading address.
J responded to this request in May 2020, but the documentation provided didnt show the 
same trading address as HSBC has registered. HSBC contacted J about this in May and 
June 2020. In July 2020, J provided further documentation, but again, this didnt have the 
same address on file as the address HSBC held.
In September 2020, HSBC sent J a chaser letter about the address information. J sent 
further information in on 30 September 2020. HSBC wasnt able to accept this either and 
called J on 7 October 2020 to discuss this, but J wasnt able to pass security.
On 8 October 2020, HSBC sent J a closure warning letter for the account. It explained the 
account would be closed on 12 December 2020 if the information wasnt received.
J also spoke to HSBC on 8 October 2020. The advisor it spoke to mistakenly advised J that 
it didnt need to submit anything further and that it could ignore any further letters about this 
issue, as the review was complete.
On 31 December 2020, HSBC wrote to J and explained it had closed its business account. It 
sent a cheque for the balance in the account.
J raised a complaint as it had been advised it didnt need to submit further documentation 
and to ignore any further letters. J asked for the account to be unfrozen/reopened so it could 
move its banking elsewhere. And for compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
closure. HSBC apologised for the mistake and reopened the account, but it didnt award 
compensation.
J brought its complaint to our service. HSBC made an offer to J of £150 through our service. 
And by the time our investigation started, Js account had been reinstated.
J rejected HSBCs offer. It said it expected compensation in the region of £500 as the offer 
didnt account for the damage that couldve happened. Js director said they had been able 
to cover the business expenses with their own funds, but it couldve been a different story if 
they werent able to. And that the closure could affect Js ability to borrow funds in the future. 
Our investigator said she thought the compensation awarded was fair, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has explained that it doesnt consider the compensation offered is enough, due to the level 
of inconvenience it was caused, alongside the possible damage that couldve been inflicted 
on the business. But as our investigator has explained, we dont award compensation for 
potential losses or hypothetical situations. I accept that the impact of this account closure 
couldve been much more severe  but in this case it wasnt.
When considering how much compensation is fair for HSBCs mistake, I have to consider 
what did happen and also what J did to mitigate the loss.
I fully accept HSBC gave J incorrect information and that it shouldve said documentation 
confirming the trading address was still outstanding. However I can see that HSBC first 
wrote to J about this in February 2020. So by October 2020, HSBC had been waiting on this 
information for over seven months and this is why it then was moving to account closure. I 
can see that the address on the documentation supplied by J in this time didnt match the 
trading address it had given HSBC. So I cant say HSBC did anything wrong not accepting 
this information. And considering the timescales involved, I cant say that J was promptly 
engaging with HSBC in relation to this request.
HSBCs system shows the account being reinstated on 13 January 2021, so two weeks after 
it was closed. J has reported that it wasnt reopened until 1 February 2021. Ive considered 
the different dates, but I dont consider it does impact the compensation award.
I say this because I can see J contacted the relevant payers and payees in relation to this 
account in early January 2021. So all payments due in January were diverted to the director 
of Js personal account. And then by Js records, the account was reinstated early February 
2021, so this next months payments shouldve been returned to the business account. So 
one month of payments was disrupted by HSBCs miscommunication.
J hasnt provided us with any evidence of financial loss or reputational damage due to the 
mistake by HSBC. Or shown an impact on its ability to borrow funds. But I do accept that 
employees had to spend time contacting parties who paid into, or were paid from the 
account. If J had been given the correct advice about the address, this couldve been 
avoided. I can see on 12 January 2021 the correct paperwork was received from J, so it was 
possible for the trading address confirmation to be supplied. I also accept there couldve 
been a level of embarrassment caused by the account closure, as payments did fail before J 
could change the details. So I agree compensation is due in this case, for the above 
inconvenience J was caused.
Reviewing what did happen, rather than what couldve happened, I think HSBCs offer is fair. 
I consider it accounts for the inconvenience J suffered in having to arrange for and use an 
alternative bank account for one month of banking. And the potential embarrassment this 
caused to the business.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should arrange to pay J £150, if it hasnt already, as compensation for 
the error by its advisor in October 2020. 
My final decision
My decision is that the settlement offer made by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman