DRN-2225593
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund her £500 after she says a 
cash machine failed to dispense her money.
In bringing this complaint Mrs M has been helped by her daughter who has made 
submissions on her behalf. My reference to Mrs M includes comments made and actions 
taken on her behalf by her daughter.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
brief summary of events here.
In March 2020 Mrs M says she tried to withdraw £500 from a cash machine. The machine 
returned her debit card, but it did not dispense the money shed requested. The machine 
was owned by another bank, who Ill refer to as N. As the cash machine was outside Ns 
branch, Mrs M says she went inside to ask for help and the staff told her to contact her own 
bank  which she did the same day. 
When the matter was raised with Lloyds, it told Mrs M it would investigate what had 
happened with N. In the meantime, it would temporarily credit her account with the disputed 
amount. But based on the information provided by N, Lloyds concluded that the money had 
been correctly dispensed and wrote to Mrs M advising her that it would be re-debiting her 
account.
     
Mrs M complained to Lloyds about its decision to re-debit the disputed amount. She said she 
didnt agree with Lloyds decision as she did not receive the money and asked it to obtain 
CCTV footage. Lloyds explained why it couldnt review CCTV footage but agreed to 
re-review its decision in relation to the cash machine dispute.
 
Lloyds wrote to Mrs M and reconfirmed in its final response that its decision to hold her liable 
and re-debit the temporary credit was correct. Mrs M didnt accept this and referred her 
complaint to this service. She maintained she did not receive the money and believes CCTV 
should have been requested by Lloyds as it wouldve shown the money was not dispensed.
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. She said the information N 
provided Lloyds showed the money was dispensed and it didnt show any discrepancies or 
issues with the cash machine. She also explained Lloyds are not obliged to check CCTV 
footage and therefore havent acted unreasonably by not doing so. As she didnt think Lloyds 
had made an error, nor had it treated Mrs M unfairly, she didnt think Lloyds needed to 
provide Mrs M with a refund. 
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same view as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. I know that will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mrs M is upset and feels strongly about this incident. She is adamant the 
cash machine did not dispense the money shed requested. But I have to look at all the 
evidence available to me when reaching my decision about whether or not Lloyds actions 
were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I hope Mrs M appreciates 
that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint based solely on her 
testimony if, on balance, the evidence suggests otherwise.   
Lloyds have provided evidence it obtained from N which confirms that the machine balanced 
 meaning that there werent any surplus funds identified in the cash machine  when next 
checked after Mrs Ms withdrawal. N also provided Lloyds with a copy of the cash machine 
journal roll which gives a breakdown of the transactions. In relation to Mrs Ms transaction it 
indicated the withdrawal of £500 was successful and that the money was dispensed. I can 
also see that within minutes other withdrawals were successfully made either side of Mrs Ms 
withdrawal  which also suggests the machine had no issues at the time. 
If Mrs Ms money hadnt dispensed and/or there was an issue with the machine, I would 
expect to see either a discrepancy in the machine balance, or this potentially recorded on 
the cash machine journal  neither of which is the case here. So Im persuaded, on balance, 
taking all the technical evidence into consideration its more likely Mrs Ms money was 
dispensed when she requested it. It follows that I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to 
hold Mrs M liable for the withdrawal.   
I know Mrs M believes CCTV evidence would be able to confirm exactly what happened. 
However, in circumstances such as these I also wouldnt ordinarily expect Lloyds to be 
responsible for gathering CCTV evidence from a cash machine they dont own. And I think 
its worth mentioning CCTV doesnt always show the detail wed need to help us, and it 
would be wrong to make any assumptions about what it might or might not have shown.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds decision to hold Mrs M liable for the cash machine withdrawal 
was unreasonable. I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs M but for the reasons Ive 
explained above I dont think Lloyds need to do anymore here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman