DRN-3424522
The complaint
Mr M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their decision to cancel 
and default his account after he was unable to access it for several years.
What happened
Mr M held a current account with NWB, which had an agreed overdraft limit of £500. In April 
2019, Mr M reported his debit card linked to the account as stolen. And he didnt request 
another card to be sent to him. Mr M has said some time after this, he contacted NWB and 
submitted a request for his address to be updated.
In July 2020, Mr M attempted to re-enrol for online banking when setting up NWBs mobile 
banking app. But Mr M inputted the incorrect PIN and password. So, Mr M was unable to log 
into his online banking from this point, and an address change would need to be arranged 
via branch or written letter.
Mr M says he attended branches local to him following this. But Mr M says branch staff 
directed him to update his address over the phone, which he was unable to do. So, Mr M 
says he was left unable to view his account or its balance and was unable to receive any 
communication from NWB.
During this time, Mr M continued to use the account to pay several transactions. And this led 
to Mr Ms account exceeding the agreed overdraft limit in October 2020. Mr M didnt make 
any payments into the account and so, the arrears continued to build. Because of this, NWB 
cancelled and defaulted Mr Ms account in March 2021. Mr M was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think NWB were fair to cancel and default his account. He explained hed been 
unable to access his account so wasnt able to see that hed exceeded his overdraft limit. 
And he explained as hed been unable to update his address, he hadnt received notification 
of the default and been given the opportunity to clear the arrears before a default was 
applied. So, Mr M wanted the default removed from his credit file. And he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset and inconvenience hed been caused. 
NWB responded and upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. They explained they had no record of 
Mr M attempting to change his address before he tried to re-enrol for online banking in July 
2020. And they explained if a request had been made before this, it wouldve been removed 
when Mr M failed to enter the correct details online. So, they explained Mr M wouldve only 
been able to update his address in branch or in writing after this point. And again, NWB said 
they had no record of Mr M attempting to do this. And they didnt think their branch staff 
wouldve directed Mr M to change his address over the phone in this situation. So, they 
didnt think they had done anything wrong here. Although they recognised Mr M may not 
have been able to access his account, they thought Mr M still held a responsibility to 
manage his account. And they recognised Mr M had continued to use the account when he 
shouldve been aware it was already in its overdraft, without any payments being paid into it. 
So, they thought theyd defaulted the account fairly, as arrears had continued to build.
But NWB did think their service had fallen below the level theyd expect when Mr M 
attempted to complain about the default in the summer of 2021. So, they offered Mr M £75 to 
recognise this. Mr M accepted the £75 but still wanted the default to be removed and further 
compensation paid to recognise his difficulties in accessing his account. As Mr M remained 
unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt dispute Mr Ms 
testimony that hed attempted to attend local branches to change his address. And they 
didnt dispute Mr M may have been told he could do this over the phone. But they didnt think 
this meant NWB had defaulted the account unfairly, as our investigator thought Mr M still 
had a responsibility to manage his account and ensure no arrears were built. So, they didnt 
think the default should be removed from Mr Ms credit file. And they didnt think NWB 
needed to compensate Mr M for his difficulty in accessing his account, as they thought NWB 
had followed their usual security processes after Mr M inputted the incorrect pin and didnt 
have a valid card to hand through his own choice. But they did recognise NWBs offer of £75 
to address the difficulty he faces when attempting to raise a complaint and they thought this 
offer was a fair one. So, they didnt think NWB needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his view that he was unable to access his account through 
no fault of his own and that hed been prevented from accessing it through his local branch 
due to COVID. And Mr M was also unhappy the £75 had still not been paid to him. Our 
investigators view remained the same and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
While Mr M has been waiting for a decision, our investigator has chased NWB for 
confirmation of when the £75 will be paid, without a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I dont dispute Mr M 
had trouble accessing his account. And I appreciate how this would made the management 
of his account more difficult. So, when Mr M realised his account had been defaulted, and 
that he was no longer able to use it, I can understand why Mr M would be both confused and 
upset about this. Especially as he was unlikely to have received the default notices due to a 
change of address.
But for me to say that NWB should remove the default or compensate Mr M for his inability 
to access his account, Id need to be satisfied that their decision to default the account was 
unfair. And that it was a purposeful error that NWB made that was the sole reason for Mr M 
not being able to access his account. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Im able to consider. Im aware NWB have offered Mr M £75 to recognise their failures 
when handing his complaint. As this offer relates to NWBs complaint handling, which is an 
unregulated activity, this isnt something Im able to comment on or endorse. But I recognise 
Mr M has accepted this offer and is awaiting payment. I would expect NWB to ensure any 
offer they have made, and that has been accepted, is paid. So, if this hasnt been done already, this is something NWB should look to arrange as soon as possible.
Ive then focused on Mr Ms inability to access his account. I can see in April 2019 Mr M 
reported the debit card linked to the account as lost. And a replacement card wasnt ordered 
at this point. NWB have confirmed that, without a valid card, Mr M would be unable to use 
his card reader to obtain an activation code that would allow him to access his online 
banking. 
I cant see that Mr M attempted to access his online banking until July 2020, more than a 
year later, where he attempted to re-enrol but was declined as he provided the wrong PIN 
and password. As I cant see any evidence to show Mr M attempted to access his account 
between April 2019 and July 2020, I dont think Im able to say Mr M was inconvenienced by 
this. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say NWB should compensate him here. 
But Mr M has confirmed after he was unable to log into his account online, with the intention 
of updating his address, he attended his local branches to try and rectify this. And Mr M has 
said his local branches told him to attempt this by phone instead.
NWB have confirmed that, without a valid card, Mr M wouldnt have been able to change his 
address online or over the phone. So, I can appreciate why Mr M is unhappy that his local 
branches failed to help him resolve the situation. Its important to note I hold no evidence to 
show Mr M attended a branch, or that he was told to call NWB instead. 
But, I dont dispute Mr Ms testimony or the difficulty he faced while at branch, as he 
attended during COVID where customers were screened before being allowed in. I think its 
most likely that branch staff did tell Mr M to update his address over the phone, without fully 
understanding Mr Ms specific situation. 
But I dont think this means NWB should compensate Mr M. This is because Ive seen no 
evidence to show that Mr M did attempt to call NWB. Had Mr M felt that he needed urgent 
access to his account, I wouldve expected to see records of calls made to NWB at the time 
and I think its likely that Mr M wouldve been able to arrange a change of his address 
through a branch or in writing around that time.
Instead, Mr M continued to use the account for several purchases during the time he was 
aware he was unable to access his account to see its balance. And during the same period 
of time, Mr M made no payments into the account. This resulted in Mr M exceeding his 
overdraft limit. While I dont dispute Mr M may not have known exactly when this exceed 
occurred, I think it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure he managed his account effectively, 
within the limits agreed within it. 
As Mr M exceeded his limit, and arrears continued to build with no payments made to reduce 
them, I dont think NWB have acted unfairly when continuing to default the account. I 
appreciate Mr M wouldnt have received the default notices as his address had changed but 
I dont think this means the default should be removed as NWB have a duty to accurately 
report the way in which Mr M managed the account. And its true that Mr M continued to 
spend on the account, without making payments into it, knowing that he was unable to see 
how far into the overdraft he was and that his address had changed so NWB had no 
reasonable way of contacting him.
It's for these reasons I dont think Im able to say the default should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file. And its why I dont think NWB need to compensate Mr M for his inability to access 
his account as I dont think this access was prevented by an error NWB made. Because of 
this, I dont think NWB need to do anything more on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman