DRN-2512638
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty car repairs.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr G engaged a company I will call P to replace four injectors on his van. The 
work was undertaken at his home and it cost £1,621.96 and was paid by credit card. He 
says that in some three months the injectors failed and in October 2019 he took the van to a 
garage which replaced them. This cost £1,362.12.
Mr G asked P for a refund, but it refused. It offered to inspect the injectors but only if he 
brought the van to its premises which were several hundreds of miles away. Mr G didnt 
consider this to be reasonable. P also pointed out that its warranty didnt cover situations 
where the scuttle panel had not been resealed. Mr G says that he used his van without a 
scuttle panel since the second repair without suffering any problems. 
Mr G made a claim under section 75, but this was rejected by HSBC. Initially it said the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier link had been broken, but it later it accepted the link was 
intact. However, it didnt accept the claim. It noted one invoice referred to water ingress on 
top of engine and the documentation from the repairing garage noted an injector cover 
wasn't previously fitted. It said that neither confirmed that the fault was as a direct result of 
the injectors or their installation being defective.
It added that the report into the injectors supplied by Mr G did not come from the 
manufacturer as he had claimed but was from a hand held tool used to diagnose the issue 
with them still installed. 
Mr G brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said there were several reasons why the injectors 
may have failed, but the most likely cause was the scuttle panel not being replaced and 
water being allowed to damage them.
Mr G didnt agree and said the scuttle panel hadnt been disturbed and it had not been 
tested. He said P had not fitted the cover on the engine. He reiterated that the panel hadnt 
been sealed after the second repair and the van had covered some 20,000 miles without 
issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where necessary and / or appropriate, I reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required link is not in dispute so I have to consider if there has been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. 
We do not have an expert report on the failure and I gather the original injectors are no 
longer available. Having looked at the invoices for the inspection and second repair it seems 
clear that the most likely problem was water damage.  I appreciate Mr G disputes this, but 
the invoice dated 8 October 2019 states: Also advise compression test as top of engine has 
water ingress. 
I understand the injector cover wasnt fitted when the car was seen by the second garage 
and it has been presumed that P failed to fit or refit this. However, having taken advice on 
the impact of the two items of protection from water I gather the key part is the scuttle. I 
believe the injector cover not being installed correctly would allow water ingress, corroding 
the injectors, but if the scuttle seal was replaced, then the water would have never got to the 
injector cover in the first place. In short if the scuttle had been properly fitted then there 
would have been no water damage.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that P does not fit scuttles, but it makes that clear in its 
website and the onus is on the customer to ensure the injectors are properly protected. I do 
not know why P doesnt include the scuttle given its importance, but it makes it clear that it 
doesnt and I cannot say that its failure means there has been a breach of contract. 
Mr G says that the van still doesnt have a sealed scuttle fitted and he has suffered no 
issues, possibly due to the cover being fitted. However, if he had done as advised and 
ensure the sealed scuttle was in place it seems reasonable to conclude that the fault would 
not have occurred.
Mr G has also said that the injectors were not the correct ones as they came from a different 
manufacturer. However, I understand that both manufacturers jointly developed the shared 
engine and the parts are interchangeable. As such, I cannot say that the wrong parts were 
used.  
So, while I have every sympathy with Mr G I do not consider I can uphold his complaint as I 
am not satisfied that there is a clear breach of contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman