DRN-4153701
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold an Investment Bond (the investment) by Abbeygate 
Wealth Management Limited (Abbeygate), an appointed representative of St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc, referred to as SJP or the business. 
In short, hes unhappy about the performance of the investment. In other words, he says it 
didnt do what he was told/led to believe it would. So, to put things right, hed like the 
business to pay the balance on what he believes hes owed.   
What happened
In 2019, Mr R says he was advised to invest £150,000 and told to expect 7% natural growth. 
But he only received a flat rate of 4.41% three years into the investment. Hes unhappy and 
feels that he was mis-sold the investment and lied to by the business. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Having thoroughly investigated the complaint hes unable to say that SJP has 
behaved unreasonably. 
When he initially discussed the investment, Mr R was looking for growth in the long 
term with the potential for income. At the time his attitude to risk was lower medium 
risk, which limits the potential for investment risk. 
Mr R wanted a minimum five-year investment. The suitability letter dated February 
2019 made clear the following: 
oThere will be some fluctuations in value and income, particularly over the 
shorter term, although the portfolio aims to avoid large fluctuation.
oWith this aim in mind, the time frame for your investment into your 
Investment Bond is 5 to 15 years because you wish for the funds to be 
invested long enough that they have the potential to grow at a rate above 
inflation.
An Illustration was also provided containing projections regarding the sorts of returns 
that could be expected if the market performance achieved certain targets relating to 
growth  these werent guaranteed. It was also explained that Mr R could get back 
less than he invested. 
The investment term was five to fifteen years. It also allowed the investor to see out 
any (initial) volatility which was likely to occur. Having only commenced the 
investment three years earlier it couldnt be considered a medium to long term 
investment. 
Since the commencement of the bond the financial markets have experienced 
several periods of high volatility to do with the effects of Brexit when the UK withdrew 
from the European Union on 31 January 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic when the 
nation went into lockdown on 23 March 2020, and the war in Ukraine. 
The timing of the investment has been far from ideal with several global events 
significantly affecting (and continuing) to affect global financial markets.
Over the long term, the strategy should allow the investment to recover from periods 
with high levels of volatility  which is what Mr R agreed to at the outset. 
The business has offered to waive early withdrawal charges (EWC), to allow Mr R to 
transfer the investment to another provider.  
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
He believes the wrong party is being pursued. The complaint is now against SJP not 
Abbeygate, and this shouldnt have been done without consulting him. The latter is a 
separate limited liability company, responsible for its own actions. 
Being an appointed representative, doesnt absolve Abbeygate of its responsibilities.  
The investigators view has concentrated on SJP, in respect of which he has no 
concerns about its integrity. That said, hes aware that the information utilized by SJP 
has been supplied by the Abbeygate, and SJP had no reason to question its 
submissions. 
The minimum term of the investment was six years (not five years) and a finite end 
date. At no time was a longer period discussed  he was in his 70s. At no time was 
inflation discussed. His statement dated 23 April 2022 encapsulates it all. 
He takes issue with the events described by the investigator thats likely to affect his 
investment. The timing would suggest that SJP had plenty of time to make 
adjustments  that was the whole point of paying a company to handle his money. 
The advice to sit tight for 15 years is neither correct nor proactive. 
Despite offering to waive the EWC, it makes no difference to him. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says Im not persuaded that 
the business mis-led him about the investment or that it was mis-sold.
Before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint, I think its important for me to 
recognise Mr Rs frustration and strength of feeling about this matter, and Im sorry for the 
length of time taken to issue a decision in this case. Im also very sorry for his recent health 
diagnosis, I appreciate it must be a difficult time for him and his family.  
Mr R has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I appreciate Mr R says that he suffered a financial loss, but Im not satisfied that he did 
because this is a long term investment, or if he did in the short term (because of changes in 
the financial market) Im not persuaded that the business is responsible for any losses. I 
cant say that any of the issues, primarily relating to (short term) market volatility, caused him 
any financial loss. 
In this instance, I note that Abbeygate, an appointed representative of SJP, carried out 
regulated business on SJPs behalf. In this scenario SJP is known as the directly authorised 
business, also known as the principal firm and as such, its responsible for the actions of its 
appointed representative. So, despite what Mr R says, Im satisfied that the complaint is set 
up against the correct business and that SJP is rightly considering and dealing with the 
actions of its appointed representative. 
Despite what Mr R says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
any assurances were given that hed receive a specific return no matter what. I note this 
wasnt a guaranteed investment, and Im mindful that Mr R was aware that the investment 
could go up as well as down in value. Therefore, I cant blame the business for him not 
receiving what he hoped to receive by way of returns, only three years into a long(er)-term 
investment. 
Even if it was suggested to him that the investment might do better (subject to market 
conditions), this doesnt of itself mean that Mr R was misled. I appreciate it is of little comfort, 
but I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to point out that the investment was 
doing better than standard bank rates. 
Its generally not how a long-term investment works, especially in the short term where some 
volatility is to be expected. This might explain why he recently lost some of the gains hed 
made, only three years into a long-term investment  because returns are dependent on the 
financial markets which the business has no control over  this doesnt mean the 
recommendation was mis-sold. In the circumstances I also cant say that the advice to 
continue to retain the investment  through the turbulent times  was unreasonable. 
In other words, Im mindful Mr R is aware that the investment could increase as well as 
decrease in value, therefore Im not persuaded that he was told/led to believe that he would 
receive a 7% return, no matter what. Despite what Mr R says, I also cant ignore the impact 
of Brexit, Covid-19 and the war in Ukraine which is more likely to have had a material impact 
on his investment, especially so early on. This might explain why he had/has a low medium 
risk given the uncertainty in the markets, even though it was suggested that hes previously 
had a high attitude to risk. That said, I appreciated Mr R says that there were numerous 
errors on the financial review form, but its not clear why he didnt check and correct the 
details, as the adviser can only go on the information provided.  
The above notwithstanding, investment performance isnt something that our service would 
generally consider in isolation. As Ive alluded to above, the investment is dependent on the 
financial markets which the business has no control over and cant predict, and therefore 
isnt responsible for.   
I appreciate what Mr R says about the information/advice he received from speaking to other 
advisers. But the comments he makes (about alternative investments) are done so in 
hindsight, and just because there were alternatives doesnt mean that the recommendation 
was mis-sold or unsuitable. 
Im not looking at what was the most suitable investment or the most lucrative, Im only 
considering whether or not the recommendation was suitable, and for the reasons set out 
above, and on balance, despite what Mr R says  including in reference to the newspaper article  Im satisfied that the recommendation was broadly suitable and met his objective for 
returns over the long term. Im mindful Mr R recently referred to this investment being in 
place for his children and grandchildren therefore I dont think the term is a material issue, 
notwithstanding his age.
Despite what Mr R says, its a matter for him whether or not he moves/encashes his 
investment  the option has always been open for him. Its not necessary for him to remain 
invested, but he may wish to obtain financial advice before deciding what to do. 
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to 
set its own fees, as long as it has made this clear to the investor, which on balance I believe 
it has. I note Mr R was provided with a copy of the Services Costs and Disclosure Document 
which includes the cost of its service and the Illustration which broadly explain the impact of 
the charges based on the funds invested in. Its not something that our service would get 
involved in. 
I should also point out that the fees arent linked to the level of returns, therefore its entirely 
plausible that despite paying fees Mr R might not make any positive returns which is 
dependent on a multitude of factors. If Mr R didnt understand something or wanted a more 
detailed breakdown he couldve asked. 
In any case, I note he continued to invest despite being made aware of the fees. Despite his 
displeasure at continuing to pay fees, the business is entitled to charge him fees for 
providing a service. On balance, I cant say its actions are unreasonable in the 
circumstances. I also note that Mr R was given the option to cancel his ongoing advice 
charge, which would mean that he didnt require further advice and the business would 
simply do what it was instructed to do. 
I note the business has offered to waive the exit fees which is on a sliding scale  also 
known as the EWC  if Mr R decides to move his investment elsewhere. In the 
circumstances, I think its reasonable. I appreciate Mr R doesnt think its enough, by virtue of 
his counteroffer, but I dont think its unreasonable given that the business isnt responsible 
for the financial markets.     
I appreciate that Mr R probably isnt happy about the way his complaint has been dealt with 
by the business. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore isnt 
something that I can consider. Also, despite what Mr R says, I dont think it was 
unreasonable to send a different adviser after his relationship with his original adviser 
became strained. 
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman