DRN-3026194
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a timeshare membership from a business I will call C, in November 
2003 and upgraded this in November 2004. The cost of the timeshare has not been provided 
and GE Money does not have a record of the original loan. It is understood that the original 
loan was rolled over into the second loan taken out in November 2004 and this was for 
£6,867.21. The loan was in Mr Hs name. The second loan wasnt paid to C, but to a 
different business, CR, that was said to act as a stakeholder. 
Mr and Mrs H said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that they could use 
holiday locations worldwide, that it would be an investment. They say they were pressurised 
and were not given a tour of the accommodation. No cooling off period was given and later 
they were pressurised to change their points for fractional points. They say that no 
affordability checks were carried out. 
So Mr and Mrs H said that C misrepresented the product to them at the point of sale and had 
they known what C said wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the 
first place.
In September 2018, Mr and Mrs H, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It 
responded to say it didnt have any detailed information on its systems about the original 
loan due to the time that had passed/the complaint had been brought too late. It said the 
loans were redeemed in 2004 and 2006 respectively. As the sale took place many years 
before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too late 
under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that 
the loan proceeds had been paid to CR and not C, so it didnt think there were the right types 
of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint. As for the alleged 
misrepresentations it said it there was insufficient detail supplied to allow it to give proper 
consideration to the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim had been brought too late, so they didnt think 
GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked at s.140A CCA, 
but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated the enactment of that 
provision.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. GE also disputed our jurisdiction to consider claims under section 75 
CCA. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs H, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs H to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, 
CR, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of 
the service C and the business that took the payment CR. But Ive not gone on to make a 
finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place for the 
claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs H said that C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement and breached its agreement with them, so they say GE Money is jointly liable 
under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs H may 
have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and 
Mrs Hs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs H brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs H had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Hs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the dates they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so 
in November 2003 and November 2004. It was at those times that they entered into an 
agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations of C. They say, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on 
those days that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in November 2003 and 
November 2004, so Mr and Mrs H had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt 
try to contact GE Money about their claim until September 2018, which was outside of the 
time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this 
misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs H could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement. GE Money has said that Mr and Mrs Hs agreements were paid off in 
2004 and 2006 respectively, so I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A.
GE Money didnt consider any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done so, so I 
cant say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs Hs arguments on limitation
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say that, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives are 
referring to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business 
about a regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
have considered that legislation. 
I have noted GE Moneys comments on our jurisdiction, but given I am not upholding this 
complaint on LA rules I see no need to comment further. 
Commission
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs H says about the amount of commission that might 
have been paid by GE Money to C for arranging the loan  they think GE Money should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, was 
paid in Mr and Mrs Hs case due to the passage of time.
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and of less than 10%. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a 
payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this 
situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs H risked the relationship being unfair under section 
140A.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs H may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs H might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs H says it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan and proper credit 
checks were not carried out. I cant see that Mr and Mrs H has provided much by way of 
further evidence about this in response to the view. I have noted this, but this service doesnt 
have jurisdiction to consider complaints about the affordability of such loans taken out prior 
to the change in regulation on 6 April 2007. As such I cannot comment further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman