DRN-3650706
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and 
had covered 29,000 miles.
In November 2021 the car broke down. Mr R tried to contact the supplying dealer 
unsuccessfully. The car was recovered to a garage who carried out repairs which were paid 
for by Mr R.
Mr R raised a complaint with Close Brothers seeking a refund of the repair costs. In 
response, Close Brothers said that because the repairs had been carried out by a third party 
and without authorisation, there was no evidence that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said that although the car had a fault, the 
information provided by the garage who had carried out repairs suggested that the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he believed that the car was faulty when it was sold to him. He 
said hed tried to contact the supplying dealer when the car broke down but it hadnt 
responded to him. Mr R felt that the supplying dealer had sold him an expensive warranty 
and had failed to make him aware the finance company might be responsible if the car had a 
fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a  reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into  account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect a second hand car, such as that 
supplied to Mr R, to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs and 
maintenance than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need 
to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car when it was supplied which made it of 
unsatisfactory quality, as opposed to a  fault which developed due to wear and tear and 
usage of the car.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. I say this because 
the car broke down in November 2021 and I can see from the invoice supplied by the 
repairing garage that repairs were carried out to the battery, injectors and injection pump.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
An independent inspection report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality. Theres no report in this case. And because repairs have been completed to fix the 
fault, theres nothing to be gained by inspecting the car now.
The only evidence about the fault is the information provided by the repairing garage. The 
repairing garage is a third-party specialist garage, independent of both parties. So, Im 
satisfied that the information they have provided is reliable. 
The repairing garage told this service that they didnt think the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. They said that if the fault had been present at the point of 
supply, the car wouldve had symptoms of misfiring and the engine management light 
wouldve been illuminated. Mr R hasnt reported either of these issues prior to the 
breakdown.
The repairing garage also said that the issues experienced by Mr R could be caused by the 
regeneration cycle not completing, which is du to driving style. The garage stated that if it 
had supplied the car, it would not consider that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im unable to say that there is any evidence to show that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. So I wont be asking Close 
Brothers to refund the cost of repairs. 
Ive taken account of Mr Rs concerns about the cost of the warranty. I appreciate that he 
feels very strongly about this. However, the warranty isnt part of the finance agreement so 
Im unable to hold Close Brothers responsible for issues or complaints arising out of the 
warranty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman