DRN-2426907
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about Meteor Investment Management Ltd (Meteor). In summary, 
they say theyre unhappy about:
Meteor not contacting them before selling their investments; and 
the payment they received, which they say is less than what other customers 
received. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr M invested in the Prima Plus Plan (the plan) managed by Meteor. 
After Lehman Brother collapsed in 2008, claims were made in 2011  on behalf of the plan 
investors  against Lehman Brothers Securities (LBS) who issued the securities, and 
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LBHI), who guaranteed the securities. From 2012, 
distributions  usually paid in April and October each year  were collected under the Class 
5 and Class 4A claim. 
 
In late 2019, in the face of diminishing distributions Meteor made a decision to sell the 
claims. It thought that the diminishing distribution was likely to continue so it would no longer 
be in the customers best interest to continue with such claims.  
 
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that they werent consulted before this decision was made, and 
theyre also unhappy about the payment they received. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In September 2009, Lehman Brothers clients were given the option to opt out of the 
group claim recovery process proposed by Meteor. As Mrs and Mr M didnt opt out, 
they were deemed to have accepted it  along with its terms, including:
oThat Meteor may take all such action and exercise all such rights on your 
behalf that Meteor sees fit in connection with the recovery of any amounts 
from LBH, LBT, LBS or any other person in respect of your securities.
Since then, Meteor has been acting as an administrator on behalf of its clients 
affected by the collapse of Lehman Brothers  in order to claim some of their money 
through the Class 4A and Class 5 claim.  
In 2019, Meteor were provided with the following information about the LBHI 
estimated future recoveries:
o0.753% claim values for the Class 4A claim, and 
o0.589% claim values for the Class 5 claim. 
The quarterly report didnt give an indication of how long itd take to pay this amount 
but said:
oFuture expenses and distributions are dependent in large measure on the 
resolution of various legal matters involving the Company and its Non- 
Controlled Affiliates. The remaining legal matters require resolution in the 
United States, as well as multiple foreign jurisdictions, including the United 
Kingdom, France, Germany, India, Spain and Australia. The timing for 
achieving final administrative or judicial resolution of these legal issues is 
uncertain. As a consequence, the Company cannot definitively specify a date 
for the final termination of its activities.
Meteor decided that the prices it could obtain from selling the claims  0.9% and 
0.7% for the claims respectively  were better than the LBHI estimates, and future 
estimated distributions. So, it would be in the best interest of its customers to sell the 
claims and bring the matters to a close. 
It wouldve been incumbent on Meteor to make this decision with the customers best 
interest at heart and theres nothing to say that it didnt. 
The first time that Meteor wouldve been given any idea of what LBHI had estimated 
for future recoveries wouldve been in late 2019. So, if the claim had continued Mrs 
and Mr M wouldve received around £53.30 for the April to October distributions. If 
the distribution rate remained the same, they wouldve received the same amount for 
the sale of the claim over approximately seven years.  
The original term of the investment was a maximum of 10 years  the collapse of 
Lehman Brothers was 12 years ago  and the distributions wouldve been paid on the 
claims since 2012. 
There was no guarantee that the distribution wouldve remained at the level of 2020. 
There was a reasonable prospect that the sale value would exceed the estimated 
claim value, so it wasnt unreasonable for Meteor to agree to what (at the time) 
looked like a more beneficial outcome for the Mrs and Mr M. It shows that it had the 
customers best interest at heart. 
It wasnt practical for Meteor to seek its customers views  including Mrs and Mr Ms 
thoughts  on the matter. Its difficult to know the outcome if it had. 
Whilst Mrs and Mr M werent given the option to keep the claims going, shes not 
persuaded that they wouldve kept it going in order to receive the estimated 
distributions of £314.02 paid over an unknown number of years. 
By selling the claim Meteor guaranteed a price for its customers  providing £374.15 
for their share of the claim which they could spend however they wished. 
Although Mrs and Mr M say their payments have totalled 56.56% of the investment, 
and they want Meteor to pay the balance of 94.91% to match the payments for the 
other clients  it was made clear to them that the amounts could differ between what 
customers got back. 
The document dated 4 October 2019, explained that the recovery amounts differ 
quite markedly between each security because of the variables involved but the 
amount received to date ranges between 54.83% and 94.91% of the original 
investment amounts. The average amount is just under 69.99% of the amount 
invested.  
Documentation provided made clear how the recoveries under the claims would 
operate  and no objections were raised by Mrs and Mr M. 
Theyve been paid distributions based on the securities they held, the calculation was 
made on this basis. 
They received a different payment to other customers because they didnt hold the 
same investments/security as other Meteor clients. Which would mean it would be 
unfair to pay all customers equal parts of the claim value as they each held different 
securities, which held different values at the time of the Lehman Brothers collapse. 
Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, they made the following key points:
Whilst Meteor said that allowable claim amounts are based on the values of the 
different securities issued (to them) by LBS and LBT  as at the date Lehman Brothers entered bankruptcy protection  it didnt tell them what percentage their 
security would reach. 
They had no way of knowing until the end of the bankruptcy procedure what they 
would receive, so they couldnt claim within the six-year period the investigator 
mentioned as they had no idea what their securities would pay out until the end of the 
action.  
If Meteor had informed them that their securities would provide a lower percentage, 
they wouldve complained sooner. 
Meteor didnt inform them that their securities were based on the lower end of the 
scale, and theres no way they couldve known, until the final monies had been 
received.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs and Mr M say, Im unable to 
say that the business behaved unreasonably.
  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note that I recognise 
Mrs and Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. They have provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and Meteor, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I dont need any 
further information in order to reach a decision in this case. 
Because Mrs and Mr M didnt (actively) opt out of the proposed group claim by Meteor, on 
balance Im satisfied theyre deemed to have accepted it, including Meteor acting on their 
behalf  and exercising rights on their behalf  in the recovery of any amounts from Lehman 
Brothers or any other person.   
 
In other words, Im satisfied this enabled Meteor to act as an administrator, on behalf of Mrs 
and Mr M (and its other clients) in order to claim some of their money through the Class 4A 
and Class 5 claim.   
Although in 2019, Meteor was provided with information about estimated future recoveries - 
0.753% claim values for the Class 4A claim, and 0.589% claim values for the Class 5 claim  
these were only estimates and there was no indication of how long the process was likely to 
take. I note the quarterly report made clear the process was dependent on several factors  
outside of the control of Meteor  including the resolution of legal matters across many 
international jurisdictions - and thats why it was unable to provide a specific date by which 
the matter would be resolved. In other words, it simply didnt know a date by which this was 
matter was likely to end. I dont think I can blame the business for this.  
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Meteor has done anything wrong, by selling the 
claims at a (reasonably) higher price  at 0.9% and 0.7% of the claims respectively. I cant 
say that Meteor didnt act in the clients best interest in selling the claims and bringing the 
matter to a close, that was otherwise likely to continue for a long time. It seems there was no 
guarantee of selling for better even if the distribution rate had remained the same, although 
they were on the decline. Based on the information available at the time, Im unable to say 
that the business acted unreasonably. 
 
I appreciate what Mrs and Mr M say about not being consulted about the sale of the claims, 
but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Meteor had ever agreed to do this prior to any 
sale. I also dont think it was practical given the timeframes, to conduct a consultation 
exercise with all its customers before acting. Im mindful that Mrs and Mr M were deemed to 
have accepted Meteor acting on their behalf in the recovery of any amounts following the 
collapse of Lehman Brothers. So, in the circumstances Im unable to safely say the business 
has done anything wrong by not consulting them before agreeing to sell the claims or that it 
hadnt acted in Mrs and Mr Ms overall best interest by doing so.
Without the benefit of hindsight, its difficult to know what Mrs and Mr M wouldve done at the 
time if they had been made aware of what Meteor intended. Choosing to take their own path 
 if it had been offered  wouldve also come with additional paperwork and expense making 
it less likely this is what they wouldve done. 
I appreciate Mr and Mr M are now unhappy with the payment, and this may well have led 
them to question Meteors actions about selling the claims in the first place, but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that its customers were guaranteed to receive equal payment irrespective 
of the size and amount of their investment. I note Meteor says:
Our regular updates have always explained that distributions were based on claims 
valuations and not original investment amounts and since early 2015 those updates included 
information about the minimum/maximum range of the amounts returned as a proportion of 
original investment as well as the overall percentage returned.
It seems they received a different payment to other customers because they didnt hold the 
same investments/security as the other Meteor customers. It would be unfair to pay all 
customers equal parts of the claim value when they each held different securities, which held 
different values  per unit  at the time of the collapse. So, it would seem Mrs and Mr M 
received what they were entitled to. 
Im mindful the document dated 4 October 2019 makes reasonably clear that the recovery 
amounts will differ because of the variables involved, however there was a range  between 
54.83% and 94.91% - which is what Mrs and Mr Ms payment was within, albeit at the lower 
end. It wasnt something that Meteor could influence for the reasons Ive explained above.    
I dont think it was necessary for Meteor to point out the exact percentage as this was 
determined by the securities/investment they held. Other than perhaps complaining sooner 
about the issue Ive already considered Im not sure they wouldve done anything different. I 
note the business says that put simply, and leaving aside the requirement to convert US 
Dollars to Sterling, each customer received what they would have received had each pursued their own claim individually and that this is the same for each of the 1400 Meteor 
accounts on behalf of which it made claims to Lehman Brothers entities. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr M will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman