DRN-3585870
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him misleading information about having to 
agree to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) before he could meet with a mortgage 
adviser. He says this delayed him taking out a new product and rates increased in the 
meantime. He asks that HSBC applies a lower rate to his mortgage or pays compensation .
What happened
Mr F has a mortgage with HSBC. He had a fixed interest rate product which expired in 
September 2022. He contacted HSBC several times in January 2022 to ask about switching 
products. 
Mr F says HSBC told him he couldnt meet with a mortgage adviser until he agreed to pay 
the ERC. He thought this meant he had to pay the ERC even if he didnt break the mortgage 
contract. This caused him to hesitate to book an appointment, during which time rates 
increased. He says HSBC acknowledged it made this error.
Our investigator said HSBC gave Mr F correct information about when the ERC would apply. 
It didnt tell him he had to pay the ERC before he could discuss taking out a new rate with a 
mortgage adviser.
Mr F said he wasnt asked to pay the ERC before the appointment, just to agree that he 
would pay the fee at some point. He says it was this that caused him to hesitate for a week, 
during which time rates increased. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to recordings of Mr Fs calls with HSBC in January 2022. 
Mr F asked about switching products early as he was concerned about interest rates going 
up. HSBC confirmed that Mr Fs current product would expire in September 2022. It said 
hed receive a letter about 90 days before this setting out his options. It said hed have to pay 
an ERC if he switched before this and confirmed the amount of the ERC. 
Mr F said as his property had increased in value and hed been repaying his mortgage he 
hoped hed fall into a different LTV band, where better rates would be available. HSBC said 
he was in the lowest rate band. Mr F asked several times whether the ERC was negotiable 
and was told that it wasnt. 
Mr F asked if it would make sense for him to have an appointment with an adviser. HSBC 
said he could apply for a product switch on-line. Or he could make an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser if he wanted to discuss his options. The call handler said she could only 
book him an appointment if he wanted to go ahead, not if he hadnt decided what to do. She 
said Mr F could look online where there were repayment calculations and rates and then call 
back if he wanted to go ahead.
Mr F called back about a week later to make an appointment. He said he wanted to switch 
products early. He was told what the ERC would be. He was told rates could change before 
the appointment, which was booked for the following day. HSBC offered a new rate which 
Mr F accepted.
I think it was fair for HSBC to tell Mr F that an ERC would be payable if he switched products 
early. It was important for Mr F to take the cost of the ERC into account when deciding 
whether to switch rates early. Mr F asked several times whether the ERC was negotiable, 
which suggests this was a cost he was aware of and wanted to minimise if possible.
Mr F doesnt dispute that he was aware of the ERC, or that it was payable when he switched 
products. Mr F says he was led to believe that hed be required to pay the ERC if he booked 
a meeting with a mortgage adviser regardless of what he then decided to do. Im sorry Mr F 
thought this. But I dont think HSBC said this, or could have known Mr F thought it had. 
HSBC did say it couldnt book a meeting until Mr F was sure he wanted to go ahead. Thats 
not the same as HSBC saying hed have to pay the ERC regardless of what he decided to 
do after the meeting. 
The phone calls happened over a short period, between 7 and 20 January 2022. It was 
unfortunate that rates changed during this period and Mr F missed the chance to secure a 
lower interest rate product. But I dont think HSBC was responsible for any delays. It gave 
Mr F correct information, and it was for Mr F to decide what to do.
Mr F says HSBC admitted in its final response its information was contradictory. I think the 
final response is poorly worded and I can see why Mr F says this. But that doesnt change 
my decision about whether HSBC treated Mr F fairly when he called about a possible rate 
switch in early 2022. HSBC said in its final response it didnt support Mr Fs complaint or 
offer compensation. 
Having considered what Mr F has said, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require HSBC to adjust the interest rate applied to Mr Fs mortgage or pay 
compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman