DRN-3493997
The complaint
Mr E complains that FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit (Ford) didnt treat him fairly 
when it sought to repossess his car because of the arrears that had built up on his credit 
agreement. He says he needs the car for work and will face difficulties if its repossessed.
What happened
Mr E took out a hire purchase agreement in November 2019 to purchase a car. Hes accrued 
arrears on the credit agreement and Ford has told him that it intends to repossess the car. 
Mr E says hes willing to repay the arrears, he just cant do that with one lump sum payment. 
And he says he needs the car for work so if its repossessed it will cause him difficulties. 
Mr E told us:
He first raised a complaint about his new car in January 2020 because a fault hed 
identified hadnt been repaired even though hed taken it to the dealership on two 
occasions;
because the repairs hadnt been carried out, he decided not to make the first 
payment that was due under his credit agreement  he told Ford he wasnt willing to 
start paying for a car until the fault had been rectified;
he was unhappy with Fords response and brought his complaint to this Service, 
where an Ombudsman upheld his complaint about the fault with the car, but also said 
that Mr E was liable for the arrears that had accumulated on his account;
he didnt accept the Ombudsmans decision  so it wasnt legally binding on Ford;
hes subsequently received a default notice from Ford requiring him to make a 
payment, failing which, it would take action to repossess his car.
it isnt right for Ford to expect him to pay the arrears that have accumulated under the 
credit agreement. He acknowledges that he signed the agreement but says this was 
before hed taken delivery of the car and identified the fault with it;
hes not had the benefit of the car, as described, and hed always maintained that 
hed commence payments once the car was made good.
Ford rejected this complaint. It said simply that it had been unable to reach agreement with 
Mr E about a suitable repayment plan. Ford said it had asked Mr E for details of his income 
and expenditure to help it establish if a long-term arrangement was appropriate. But when it 
telephoned him, Mr E didnt want to discuss the matter. Ford says when it next spoke with 
Mr E, hed said he didnt believe there should be any arrears on his agreement because of 
the fault hed had with the car, even though the Ombudsmans final decision had confirmed 
he was liable for the payments on the agreement.
An investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he wouldnt be looking at anything relating to the car quality issues that Mr E 
had previously complained about because an Ombudsman had already issued a final 
decision on this subject. But he said the credit agreement signed by Mr E was clear about 
the payments that Mr E was required to make. And he didnt think it was wrong for Ford to 
have commenced repossession proceedings.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator and said Ford had not discussed the matter with him; 
he doesnt believe he owes the arrears; and its unfair that he should pay for a faulty vehicle.
Our investigator explained to Mr E that the only matter he could look at was whether Ford 
were treating him fairly in respect of the arrears owed and its planned repossession of the 
car. He said he couldnt investigate anything relating to the quality of the car; the fault that 
Mr E identified, or whether he should be liable for the arrears on the account. These matters 
had already been considered by an Ombudsman previously and a determination had been 
issued in March 2021.
Mr E disagreed. He told us about the fault and remedial issues hed experienced with the car 
and he disputes that he owes any arrears. He says Ford wont discuss the matter with him 
and its affected his credit file
An ombudsman looked at this complaint to determine what this Service could look at and 
what it could not look at. He explained that our powers to consider complaints are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, and that it was inappropriate for the Service to 
consider complaints where the subject matter had already been determined by an 
Ombudsman previously.
He concluded that it would be inappropriate for anyone at this Service to look again at a 
complaint by Mr E about the quality of the car; the issues hed experienced in getting this 
matter resolved; and whether Mr E is responsible for the arrears that have accrued. The 
Ombudsman determined that this Service would only look at whether Ford is treating Mr E 
fairly in the way its seeking payment of the arrears. And he asked the investigator to look 
only at this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Our investigator considered the matter of Fords treatment of Mr E in relation to the arrears, 
but he said he didnt think Ford had done anything wrong. And he said he wasnt going to 
uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E disagrees, so the so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr E reiterates that because 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  its now been successfully repaired  the credit 
agreement shouldve been terminated and, as a result, hes not responsible for the arrears. 
And although hes now started making his monthly payments, his credit file has a record of 
the defaults on it. Mr E also says that mistakes made by Ford in respect of his address have 
caused him problems with parking fines issued by his local council.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr E wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr E should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to 
what hes already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in both of his views.The only aspect of Mr Es complaint that Im looking at is how he was treated by Ford in 
respect of the accrued arrears and its plans to repossess the car. The rules and guidance 
relevant to Mr Es agreement are set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit handbook (CONC). 
Now I accept that Mr E doesnt agree but having considered what both parties have said and 
submitted Im satisfied that Ford acted in line with the requirement to treat customers in 
arrears fairly. In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to the fact that:
Ford tried to engage with Mr E on a few occasions and it asked him to provide it with 
some information about his income and expenditure so that it could agree a suitable 
repayment plan with him. But I understand Mr E was reluctant to provide the 
requested information.
Although Mr Es first missed payment was at the start of 2020, its only in 2021 that 
Ford reached the point of seeking to repossess the car; so Im satisfied that it gave 
Mr E sufficient time to agree a suitable repayment plan.
It was only after Mr E fell more than £4000 into arrears that Ford issued a Notice of 
Default in April 2021. The default notice highlighted that Mr E had breached his 
agreement and confirmed the level of arrears. This notice explained that failure to 
clear the arrears by a given date would lead Ford to exercise its right to repossess 
the car. So Im satisfied that Mr E was aware of the level of arrears and what he 
needed to do to avoid repossession of the car.
Ive also considered Mr Es comments about his credit file. But I have to tell him that Ford 
was legally obliged to accurately report these things to the credit reference agencies. So, I 
cant ask it to amend the credit file because I dont think its done anything wrong. And I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
Ive noted Mr Es concerns that his credit rating has been affected. Mr E might, however, be 
interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit records. The 
purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case Mr E, to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, Mr E should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
Finally, Mr E mentions council parking tickets and says this was exacerbated by Fords 
administrative failures. Mr E needs to raise this matter with Ford in the first instance and 
provide it with an opportunity to investigate and respond to this complaint point. Once its 
had this opportunity, if he remains unhappy with its response, he can bring a complaint 
about this to this Service.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Ford has done anything wrong in the 
way its dealt with Mr E about the arrears on the account and its plans to repossess the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman