DRN-3475779
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) switched his account to a fee- 
paying Choice account in August 2014, without his agreement. He says that the monthly fee 
that he paid for this account outweighed the financial benefits that he derived from holding 
the account.
What happened
Initially Santander said that Mr P complained too late about the sale of the Choice account 
for our service to be able to consider the complaint. One of our ombudsmen issued a 
decision on this and decided that we are able to look into this sale.
One of our adjudicators assessed the merits of this complaint, and he did not believe that 
Santander did anything wrong in relation to the sale of the account. He concluded, on 
balance, that Mr P did agree to the account and that as he believed that the account was 
sold on a non-advised basis, it was not the responsibility of Santander to ensure that the 
account was financially beneficial to Mr P.
Mr P did not agree to this. In summary, he says that he would not have agreed to this 
account as it would not have been beneficial to him and that he has demonstrated that it was 
not. 
Therefore, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive kept 
that approach in mind when considering this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I should explain that were there is a dispute about what has happened I need to make a 
finding on what is most likely to have happened based on the available evidence. In this 
instance there is not much available from the time of the sale, except bank statements to 
show the account activity.
Firstly, I will consider whether Mr P consented to the Choice account. Mr P has said that he 
did not agree to the account and it was mis-sold to him as it was not likely to have benefited 
him based on his account usage at the time. He has compared the fees he was charged 
before and after the change to the Choice account and has demonstrated that the account 
did not save him money. He has calculated this by looking at the what he was charged prior 
to and after the upgrade to the Choice account.
But there was a change in overdraft fee structure that came into effect in August 2014 i.e. 
around the time his account was changed to a Choice account. And this change meant that 
he was about to be charged more on the Everyday Current Account, to use his overdraft. In 
summary, prior to this point, the fee structure on the Everyday Current Account that he held 
charged £1 a day when he was using his overdraft facility. This was capped at £20 a month. 
But from mid-August 2014 onwards, this cap was removed. He would also be charged a 
separate fee if he exceeded his overdraft facility.
Whereas a feature of the Choice account was that it capped the daily overdraft usage fees at 
£20 per month. And it also did not include the unarranged overdraft fee that would apply to 
the Everyday account. 
Looking at Mr Ps overdraft usage at the time the Choice account was taken out, he was 
frequently overdrawn for more than 20 days a month - both before and after his account was 
changed to the Choice account. So by changing the account, he could potentially save 
money, depending on the amount of time he was overdrawn and how his account was 
managed. So I think that it is more likely that Mr P did agree to the Choice account, and I 
think its likely he did so because of the combination of these two features  rather than it 
being the case that Santander upgraded his account without obtaining Mr Ps consent first. 
It may be the case that, given the way he managed his account over the entire time he held 
the Choice account, Mr P may not have saved money, compared to if hed stayed on the 
Everyday Current Account. But I dont think that this means that he did not agree to the 
account in the first instance or that Santander was wrong to have sold it to him in the first 
instance. 
I think the potential was there when he initially likely agreed to the account to save money 
depending on how his account was managed. I also believe that knowing that he had the 
security that his account fees were capped at £30 a month (the £10 monthly account fee and 
the maximum £20 overdraft usage fee) rather than a potentially larger fee if he went over his 
overdraft limit may also have been a reason why he agreed to the account at the time. 
So overall whilst I accept its possible that Santander changed Mr Ps account without his 
consent in 2014, when deciding what I think was most likely to have happened, I think its 
more likely the case that Mr P agreed to change his account, in circumstances he no longer 
recalls, due to the potential to either save money or at the very least know exactly how much 
he would have to pay each month to use his overdraft facility.
Based on my understanding of Santanders sales processes I dont think its likely that 
Santander made a personal recommendation to Mr P, when it sold him the account. So, 
Santander did not have to make sure that the account was right for him. It did though have to 
give Mr P the important information about the account, to allow him to make his own choice 
as to whether the account was right for him. 
Overall, I think that it is more likely than not that the main benefits wouldve been highlighted 
during the application process. After all, Santander wouldve wanted the account to seem 
attractive to Mr P, so that hed agree to it. I also cant see anything specific that makes me 
think Mr P wouldve altered his decision to take out the account, had he been given even 
more information about the account and the associated benefits.
With the benefit of hindsight, I can understand why Mr P may now think that the account was 
poor value for money. But that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. And based on 
everything that has been provided, Ive not seen enough information that makes me think 
that its likely that the account was mis-sold in the first instance.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman