DRN-2418577
The complaint
Mr E complaints the BUPA Insurance Limited trading as BUPA Dental declined a claim he 
made under a dental insurance policy
What happened
Mr E held a BUPA dental insurance policy through his employer. He travelled to Sudan and 
had some dental treatment there in November 2019.
Mr E made a claim to BUPA for the cost of that treatment on 4 December 2019.
BUPA declined the claim as the terms of the policy under sanctions said BUPA wont pay a 
claim that would expose it to any sanction, prohibition or restriction  and Sudan was 
included under this term.
Mr E doesnt think BUPA is correctly interpreting the sanctions in Sudan  he says they dont 
relate to individual transactions of this type. Hes also unhappy that BUPA asked him more 
information about his claim  which led to him incurring costs  when it knew the treatment 
took place in Sudan. Mr E says BUPA couldve highlighted the term earlier.
Mr E also isnt happy that BUPA didnt make him or his employer aware of this term when he 
took out the policy through his employer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think BUPA had done anything 
wrong by declining the claim as the treatment took place in Sudan, and this was excluded 
under the policy. She also pointed out that Mr Es policy is through his employer, so it was 
for the employer to agree to the terms.
Our investigator said she hadnt seen that Mr E had incurred any extra costs because of 
anything BUPA had done wrong. So, she didnt think there was anything it needed to do, to 
put things right.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings. He says he firmly believes that reimbursing 
him here in the UK doesnt represent a violation of the sanctions. He also said BUPA wasted 
his resources when it asked him for more information about the treatment he had. 
BUPA responded to say it considers Sudan to be a sanctioned country, it doesnt provide 
cover for treatment in sanctioned countries, and this is outlined in the policy terms. BUPA 
also said it promptly declined the claim when it had assessed it and it was clear where the 
treatment had taken place. Mr E has since sent us further information relating to the 
sanctions in Sudan.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term that Bupa is relying on here says the following under the heading Sanctions:
Bupa, through this policy, shall not provide cover or be liable to pay any claim where this 
would expose Bupa to any sanction, prohibition or restriction under United Nations 
resolutions, or trade or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of the European Union, 
United Kingdom, United States of America, and/or all other jurisdictions where Bupa 
transacts its business, including but not limited to providing medical coverage inside Sudan, 
Iran, North Korea, Syria and Cuba.
Its not in dispute that Sudan is still subject to financial sanctions. Mr E just argues that they 
dont relate to transactions of this type, so BUPA isnt acting fairly by relying on the above 
term.
But I dont think its for this service to say whether the sanctions in place at the time of the 
treatment would expose BUPA to any sanction, prohibition or restriction. BUPA has said it 
considers Sudan to be a sanctioned country, and it doesnt provide cover for treatment in 
sanctioned countries. The term above also specifically lists Sudan.
I think its for BUPA to decide if it would be exposed as per the term. So, while Mr E could be 
right what he says about the sanctions (but I wont be making a finding on this), I dont think 
this makes a difference here. Overall, I think BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably in relying 
on the above term when it declined Mr Es claim.
Mr E submitted his claim to BUPA on 4 December 2019, and I can see BUPA asked him for 
more information on 18 December 2019 during a phone call. BUPA asked for evidence that 
Mr E had paid for the invoice, as the information it had wasnt conclusive. But when Mr E 
called BUPA again on 6 January 2020, he was told it wouldnt cover treatment in Sudan 
because it was a sanctioned country.
I appreciate Mr Es frustration that BUPA first asked him for more information, when it was 
clear from his claim form the treatment took place in Sudan. But Im also mindful that its 
normal for insurers to ask for more information before carrying out a full assessment of a 
claim. So, while I agree it wouldve been helpful had BUPA spotted this issue earlier, I dont 
think I can fairly say BUPA made a mistake here that it should compensate Mr E for.
As Mr Es policy is through his employer, any issues with how the policy was sold is a 
dispute between Mr Es employer and BUPA. So, I wont look into Mr Es concerns about 
what terms BUPA may or may not have highlighted when BUPA sold the policy to his 
employer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman