DRN-2819456
The complaint
Mr R complains about the difficulties he faced contacting Santander UK Plc to discuss his 
current account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr R had a direct debit due in mid-April 2020. He didnt have enough money to cover 
it so he tried to contact Santander for advice. Mr R says he couldnt get through on 
the phone as he was directed to use the web chat service. I understand Mr Rs 
frustration. But this was at a time when firms needed to make changes because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Web chat was a reasonable alternative in the circumstances.
Mr R says he tried using web chat but his questions werent answered correctly. 
Santander hasnt been able to locate a record of any web chats and Mr R hasnt 
provided a copy of any of the messages. Mr R also hadnt provided any context, such 
as about what advice he was seeking, what questions he asked and what answers 
he received. In the absence of any relevant information I cant reasonably conclude 
Santander provided Mr R with poor service here. 
Mr R decided to send Santander a secure email through internet banking. He 
complains no one replied to him. But Santander sent an automatic response which 
said: This service is no longer available, please use Chat, via our website, your 
Online or Mobile Bank. I think Mr R ought reasonably to have known from this his 
email wouldnt elicit a response to his query. The service was unavailable because of 
the pandemic, but as above, web chat was a reasonable alternative at this time.
When Santander responded to Mr Rs complaint it said if he didnt have enough 
money to pay a direct debit he could cancel it using his internet banking and that he 
might want to contact the company involved. It further said that the returned direct 
debit hadnt resulted in any charges. In my view this was correct advice and as no 
charges were applied, I cant see this matter caused Mr R a financial loss.
Overall, Mr Rs frustration is understandable because the pandemic restricted the ways he 
could interact with his bank. But I dont think this was a result of mistakes on the part of 
Santander. Nor can I see that its caused Mr R a financial loss or any material distress or 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman