DRN-1552622
complaint
Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, as the insurer, should take responsibility for this
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision. Miss W says
AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Miss W took out a store card in August 1998 and the PPI was sold at the same time. Miss W 
paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss W says nothing was mentioned about the PPI and she didnt know she had it. Miss W 
took out the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the application form she completed in 
store. So I have considered this alongside Miss Ws comments. 
On the application form that was completed at the time there is a separate section called 
Account Cover. This is followed by a statement that reads Only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover. There is then a brief description of the cover on offer and the cardholders 
signature is then required. Miss W has signed in the relevant section which indicates she 
wanted and agreed to the cover. If Miss W didnt want the cover, she couldve left this 
section blank, like she had for other sections on the form for additional products. I dont know 
what was discussed at the time Miss W took out the card, but I wouldve expected Miss W to 
read over the form and raise any questions she had at the time before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Miss W knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
AXA didnt provide Miss W with advice about whether to buy the policy. So this meant it 
didnt have to check the PPI was suitable for Miss W. But it did have to make sure she got 
the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Although I dont know what was said to her then, I think its likely that the information she 
received about the PPI could have been better than it was. But I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about taking the cover and Ill explain why.
Miss W appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions or limitations. Miss W says she wouldnt have received any employee benefits at 
the time. Miss W also didnt have any other means to meet the repayments if she was out of 
work unexpectedly. The PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Miss Ws outstanding monthly 
balance, until she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. And she 
wouldve received the same benefit if she was made redundant. So, I think she would have 
valued the extra security which the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss W. And as the policys premiums
were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said, but this hasnt changed my mind about not
upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman