DRN-3492393
The complaint
Ms C complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a 
running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 22 September 2016, Ms C applied for a credit account with Studio Retail. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £300. The credit limit was increased seven times to £1050 on 
31 August 2017.  
On 27 October 2020, Ms C complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt 
have been opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to 
have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her 
credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. Studio Retail didnt agree. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 22 April 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Ms Cs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Cs complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms C has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Studio Retail has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms C 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Studio 
Retail to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the minimum monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest. There were no payment issues early in the life 
of the account and only one in the time the credit limit was increasing. Overall, I have 
placed more weight on this matter than our adjudicator did; that the account was well 
managed and, before the credit limit reached £1050, Ms C was not using anything close to 
the full credit limit available to her. And it was many months after the last credit limit 
increase that Ms C contacted Studio Retail about financial difficulties. Ive seen no 
evidence that Studio Retail failed to treat Ms C with forbearance when she did. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Studio Retail to think that the credit it 
provided Ms C was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms C was 
managing her account or what Studio Retail could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms C will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Ms C to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions 
in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit increase, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 20 May 2022. Studio Retail have acknowledged receiving the 
decision and said they accept my provisional findings. Ms Cs representatives have 
acknowledged receiving the decision but, at the time of writing, they have not made any 
further submission or made a request for a time extension to do so. I think that Ms C has had 
sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if she had wished to. So, I am 
proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Ms Cs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman