DRN-3387705
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC unfairly took the decision not to issue a 
new credit card. Mr C also complains about the service provided by Tesco and delays 
receiving a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
What happened
Mr C has held a credit card with Tesco for several years. In 2018 and 2019 Mr Cs account 
experienced some arrears and exceeded the credit limit at times. In March 2020, following 
discussions with Mr C, Tesco placed a temporary block on his account and applied an 
interest frees for three months. That meant Mr C couldnt use his credit card for new 
spending, but wouldnt incur any interest for three months. 
Tesco says it reviewed Mr Cs account around this time and took the decision not to issue a 
replacement credit card when it expired in September 2020. Tesco says the process is 
called Reissue Decline and that it wrote to Mr C to confirm its decision in March 2020. 
In July 2021 Mr C contacted Tesco and was told a block had been applied to his account 
that meant no new cards could be issued. Mr C complained and said he was told the 
account block was temporary, for three months, when it was arranged. Mr C also raised a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) for telephone calls between him and Tesco. 
Tesco issued its final response on 3 August 2021 but didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
declining to reissue Mr Cs credit card. Tescos final response said there was no evidence it 
had written to Mr C to notify him of its decision. Tesco also said there was a delay in issuing 
the telephone calls and sent Mr C a cheque for £50 to apologise. 
Tesco says the DSAR was sent to Mr C at the end of August 2021, including the call 
recordings. Tesco has also told us it sent Mr C a further £50 to apologise for the delay. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint but thought Tesco had dealt with it 
fairly. As a result, they didnt ask Tesco to take further action. Mr C asked to appeal and said 
the impact to his mental health hadnt been considered. Mr C also said communication from 
Tesco had been poor and that he wouldnt be making further payments to his account. Mr C 
said he didnt think the compensation paid to date was a fair way to resolve his complaint. As 
Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst connected, the issues here fall broadly into two parts. Tescos decision not to replace 
Mr Cs credit card and the way it responded to his DSAR. Ill look at each in turn. 
There appears to have been some confusion concerning the account blocks or limitations 
applied by Tesco. When Mr C spoke with Tesco at the beginning of March 2020, it applied a 
three month block to his credit card for new spending and agreed to accept payments of 
£50. It also froze interest so the balance didnt increase. That account block was a different 
process to Tescos decision not to reissue a credit card to Mr C. Tesco has confirmed that 
the reissue decline decision was taken following a review of the information available, 
including his account history and credit file. 
I can see our investigator set out the relevant section of Tescos account terms and 
conditions in their view of his complaint  so I wont recreate them here. But, they allow 
Tesco to suspend or restrict the use of a credit card for various reasons. Tescos told us it 
reviewed Mr Cs account history and other information it had available and took the decision 
not to reissue his credit card. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im satisfied thats a 
decision Tesco was entitled to take. 
I can see there was some confusion as two blocks or account limitations were at play during 
the same period. And it appears the call handlers Mr C spoke with werent immediately clear 
about what had happened. From what Ive seen, the confusion was increased when Tesco 
said it had failed to write to Mr C about its decision. Tesco has since told us it did send Mr C 
a letter in March 2020 that confirmed no new cards would be issued. Whilst we dont have a 
direct copy, a notation from Tescos systems shows a letter of this nature was sent to Mr C. 
And Tescos supplied a template that it says wouldve been sent. 
Whilst I understand Mr C has told us he didnt receive Tescos letter, I think its more likely 
than not it was sent as claimed. In my view, the systems information in particular is clear in 
showing the letter was issued. I dont know why the letter wasnt received by Mr C, but Im 
satisfied it was sent as claimed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded Tesco acted unfairly when it 
took the decision not to issue new credit cards.
Mr C also complained about delays in receiving the calls as part of his DSAR. Tesco accepts 
the calls were requested at the beginning of July 2021 but not sent to Mr C for around two 
months. I agree thats longer than promised and its clearly caused Mr C a reasonable level 
of frustration. But Tescos final response dated 3 August 2021 apologised for the delay and 
offered Mr C £50 for the distress caused. A further £50 was offered by Tesco when the calls 
werent then forwarded as quickly as possible  so payments totalling £100 have now been 
offered.
Mr C has told us about the stresses caused by Tescos actions and how theyve impacted 
his health. I dont doubt what hes told us or how upset Mr C is. As I havent found that Tesco 
acted unfairly by declining to reissue his credit card Ive focused on the delay in sending Mr 
C the call recordings. In my view, £100 is a reasonable reflection of the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As Tesco has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to 
do anything else or increase the award.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint because Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman