DRN-3032087
The complaint
Mrs Ns complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to a payment she made on 
31 December 2020 to her mortgage account. She wanted this crediting as a payment for 
January 2021, but Santander credited it to December 2020.
What happened
Mrs N had two three-month mortgage deferrals due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the second 
one ending in September 2020. In October 2020 Mrs N contacted Santander as she was still 
unable to make payments to her mortgage. Santander agreed an arrangement that for 
November and December 2020 she didnt have to pay her monthly payments towards her 
mortgage - although her usual monthly payments were to resume on 4 January 2021. 
Santander say they explained that this arrangement would reflect on her credit file and that 
after those two months she would be about £945 in arrears. Santander says it explained to 
Mrs N she would need to come to an arrangement to clear the arrears going forward.
When Mrs N made her payment on 31 December 2020, Santander accept that it recorded it 
as a payment for December and not January 2021. It does not accept that Mrs N asked for 
the payment to be applied to her account in January.
Subsequently, Santander agreed that Mrs N did not have to make the January monthly 
mortgage payment. This it feels puts Mrs N in the same position as she would have been in 
any event. Santander point out that by treating the payment this way it has actually reduced 
the interest Mrs N would have paid overall. 
Mrs N has asked Santander to correct their records to show she made the payment for 
January, as she feels she is not in the same position she would have been in because now 
her credit file shows two months non-consecutive arrears. 
Santander said they are unable to do that as it has correctly recorded Mrs Ns December 
payment and they have rejected Mrs Ns complaint.
Mrs N was unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Santanders actions 
hadnt negatively impacted Mrs Ns credit file any more than it would if the payment had 
been credited in January, because she still would have had two months arrears showing on 
the credit file in any event. So, she didnt think Santander hadnt acted unfairly.
Mrs N didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts to this complaint are largely agreed, they are that Mrs N had an agreement with 
Santander that she didnt have to pay anything in November or December. That of course 
would mean that Santander would have to record on her credit file that she would be two 
months in arrears. Mrs N accepts that. It is also accepted that Mrs N made a payment in 
December 2020.
The question which arises here is whether that December payment has been wrongly 
recorded as a December payment rather than a January payment, and if so has it placed 
Mrs N in any worse position? 
Santander have told this service that payments made on a particular day can only be applied 
to a customers account for that day. They are confident that had Mrs N requested the 
payment be applied to January then because the payment couldnt be allocated to her 
account on any day other than the day she was calling, she would have been asked to call 
back the next working day, as by then it would have been January.
Unfortunately, there is no call for me to listen to so I cannot say with precision what exactly 
was said to Mrs N or indeed by her when she called on 31 December 2020. Where evidence 
is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the 
evidence which is available. And in this case I think it is therefore more likely than not that 
Mrs N didnt actually ask for her payment to be applied to her account for January. I say this 
because I think if she had requested this, Santanders adviser would not have been able to 
process her request and therefore, in line with process, advised Mrs N of this. 
Having made that finding, I think Santander have not acted unfairly by crediting her account 
with her December payment on the day it was received. So, I cant say Santander have done 
anything wrong. Santanders recording of the payment in December has of course reduced 
the overall amount of interest Mrs N also had to pay which has been of benefit to her.
So, although Mrs N will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman