DRN-1964366
The complaint
 Miss J and Mr L have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to pay for all the 
damage to their car following an accident and provided a poor service throughout their claim.
As we have been predominantly in correspondence with Mr L throughout, I shall just refer to 
him for ease.
 What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident on 16 August 2019. He claimed it wasnt his fault. Given 
difficulties with claiming through the other drivers insurers, he made a claim to Aviva for the 
repair of the damage to his car. As Mr L didnt want to use Avivas approved repairer, he 
paid a further excess of £200 on top of his £850 excess to use a repairer of his choice.
Aviva agreed to pay for the costs of the repair of the damage caused in the accident. Mr L 
then said he had a crack in his front windscreen which wasnt there before the accident and 
he also wanted that repaired. Aviva didnt think it happened as a result of the accident, so it 
refused to pay the costs of repairing it.
Six weeks later, on 2 October 2019, the rear windscreen of Mr Ls car shattered. Mr L 
thought Aviva should repair it as part of his claim. Aviva didnt agree it was part of the 
damage caused in the accident.
Meanwhile Mr Ls chosen repairer wasnt happy with the amount Aviva was willing to pay for 
labour. Plus, Aviva had omitted to mention either windscreen damage. So, Mr L complained.
Aviva then said it would send out an independent engineer to inspect his car. But this 
independent engineer failed to materialise despite Mr L chasing Aviva. So, Mr L paid for his 
engineer to report on his car on 28 October 2019.
Aviva agreed it had provided poor service to Mr L, but it didnt think both windscreens issues 
were anything to do with the accident. So, it wouldnt cover the cost of their repair, but it paid 
him £200 for its poor service. It also offered Mr L a cash in lieu of the repair amounting to 
£2,465.39, which Mr L didnt think was sufficient to repair the accident damage to his car.
Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator ultimately didnt 
think Aviva had done anything wrong beyond the poor service and he thought the £200 
compensation was adequate. Additionally, he thought Aviva should refund Mr L the cost of 
his own engineers report. 
Aviva agreed but Mr L did not. Therefore, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why.
In Mr Ls policy Aviva duty is only to find the costs of the damage caused in an accident. So 
first dealing with the front windscreen, Mr Ls own engineer clearly states this crack was 
caused by chip given there was a chip in the windscreen. Therefore, I consider its very 
unlikely to have been caused in this accident, so I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in 
refusing the pay the costs of the repair of this. 
As regards the rear windscreen, this shattered around six weeks after the accident and Mr L 
had been driving his car since the accident. Therefore, I also consider its very unlikely to 
have been caused by the accident. Mr Ls engineer notes this windscreen needs to be 
repaired but crucially he doesnt say it shattered due to anything to do with the accident. 
Therefore, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in refusing to pay for the costs of repairing 
this as part of his accident claim. 
I understand that at the time the rear windscreen shattered, Mr L was waiting for Avivas 
independent engineer to come and inspect his car. And so, Mr L said he didnt get his rear 
windscreen repaired and his car suffered water and other damage consequently. Whilst I 
agree Avivas engineer never materialised and that was unreasonable of Aviva, I do consider 
Mr L could have had his windscreen repaired as he has a duty under insurance law to 
mitigate his loss. Further given the passage of time since the accident, plus the fact that Mr L 
was driving the car, I do think it would have been extremely unlikely it shattered due to the 
damage caused in this accident. The length of time which had passed from the date of the 
accident and the fact Mr L was driving his car would be considered an intervening factor in 
the chain of causation legally. Therefore, the likelihood of the windscreen shattering as a 
result of the accident would have been exceptionally remote. Consequently, I dont consider 
Aviva is responsible for the consequent water and other damage caused by the failure of 
getting the windscreen repaired. 
Aviva confirmed it would consider the repair of his windscreen as a second claim which I 
consider to be reasonable.
 
Given Mr L wanted to use his own chosen repairer to repair the accident damage of his car 
and the subsequent dispute over the costs and the labour rate, Aviva offered a cash in lieu 
payment of £2,465.39. However, as the investigator detailed, the estimate from Mr Ls 
repairer included the replacement of the windscreen, this isnt Avivas liability as Ive already 
decided. It also has a labour cost of £71 per hour whereas Aviva was only allowing £40 per 
hour based on the average hourly rate in Mr Ls area. The investigator said if Mr L obtained 
two further quotes (excluding the windscreen repairs) it could be considered again. Mr L 
didnt do this. Therefore, there is no further quotes being coherent evidence before me, in 
order to show Aviva labour rate of £40 per hour is unreasonable. Consequently, I dont think 
it is unreasonable.  
Given Avivas engineer never materialised it was down to Mr L to get his own engineers 
report. That wasnt fair of Aviva, so I consider Aviva should refund Mr L the cost of this report 
with interest.
Aviva acknowledges its service to Mr L was poor. Its paid or offered him £200 compensation 
for this. I consider this sum is in line with what I have awarded in similar cases, so I consider 
its reasonable
 My final decision
 So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Refund the costs of Miss J and Mr Ls engineers report, adding interest of 8% per 
year from the date they paid for the report to the date it refunds them. If income tax is 
to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Miss J and Mr L for HMRC purposes.
Pay (if it hasnt already) Miss J and Mr L the sum of £200 compensation.
Ensure its cash in lieu settlement amount has now been paid to Miss J and Mr L for 
the cost of the repairs of the damage caused in the accident. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman