DRN-3430312
Complaint
Mr B has complained about an overdraft which was provided to him by Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) on his current account. Hes said that he had a gambling problem which 
would have been apparent to Halifax had it carried out proportionate checks. And in these 
circumstances, it was unfair to lend to him at all, let alone increase the limit on his overdraft 
to £5,000.  
Background
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt think it was unfair for 
Halifax to have provided Mr B with an overdraft in the first place. However, she also thought 
that Halifax ought to have realised that Mr Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for him 
by the time his overdraft was due to be reviewed in August 2017. 
Our investigator additionally thought that Halifax acted unfairly because Mr B had explained 
he was struggling with a gambling addiction in November 2017, yet Halifax still allowed him 
to use his overdraft. She thought this meant that Halifax needed to be refund any gambling 
transactions which were made using Mr Bs overdraft up to a maximum of the overdrawn 
balance, minus any refunded interest, fees and charges added from August 2017 onwards. 
Both parties agreed that the interest, fees and charges added from August 2017 onwards 
needed to be refunded. But Halifax thought this was sufficient to put things right for anything 
that might have gone wrong as a result of it failing to withdraw Mr Bs overdraft in August 
2017. And as Mr B didnt accept Halifaxs alternative offer of settlement the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
The regulatory framework
I think that it would be helpful for me to start this decision by setting out the regulatory 
framework and other relevant publications that I think are important to my determination of 
Mr Bs complaint.  
Halifax provided Mr B with his overdraft while it was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). So Halifax was subject to the FCAs rules in respect of consumer credit 
activities when it lent to Mr B.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant 
sections of CONC here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending; 
CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated 
agreement; and finally CONC 7 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to Arrears, default 
and recovery (including repossessions).  
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the rules set out in CONC 5, CONC 6 
and CONC 7 and the standards set out by the previous regulator of Consumer Credit  the 
Office of Fair Trading (OFT). As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC 
rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance on many occasions. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. These rules were 
updated in November 2018, but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time the 
lending decisions in question were made. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer 
with credit, including entering into an agreement of this type. It says a firm must consider:(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.3G says: 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1) the type of credit; 
(2) the amount of the credit; 
(3) the cost of the credit; 
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit; 
(5) the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; 
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10). 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say: 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
As explained, CONC 6 sets out a firms post-contractual obligations.
CONC 6.7.2 R states:A firm must monitor a customer's repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making reference to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer 
to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet 
the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Halifax was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering information from CRAs, including existing 
financial commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
Section 9 of the Lending Code is concerned with Financial Difficulties. It says:
178. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers 
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers to try to help themselves, the 
first step, when a subscriber becomes aware of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer to discuss the matter. This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers. 
179. Personal customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty when income is 
insufficient to cover reasonable living expenses and meet financial commitments as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as: 
loss of employment; 
disability; 
serious illness; 
relationship breakdown; 
death of a partner; 
starting a lower paid job; 
parental/carer leave; 
starting full-time education; and 
imprisonment 
180. Financial difficulties may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events: 
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds; 
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments; 
Discontinuation of regular credits; 
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings; 
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of 
debts; [my emphasis]
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional rate of 
interest; and 
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement. 
The customer informing the subscriber that they are, or at risk of being in 
financial difficulties.
182. If a subscriber becomes aware via their existing systems or from external data feeds 
(e.g. CRAs) or from information provided by the customer that the customer may be at risk of 
being in financial difficulties, the subscriber should contact the customer in order to: 
outline their approach to financial difficulties; 
encourage the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer is worried 
about their position; 
offer the customer appropriate and timely options where possible to help reduce 
the risk of deterioration in the customers financial well- being; and 
provide signposts to sources of free, independent money advice. The subscribers contact with a customer identified as being at risk of being in financial 
difficulties should be through the normal channel of communication with the customer 
concerned, such as letter, telephone, email or text. 
183. Signs or indicators that a personal customer may be at risk of being in financial 
difficulties may include: 
regular unarranged overdrafts or excesses on agreed overdraft facilities;
high or increasing numbers of unarranged overdraft charges being incurred by 
the customer, particularly where the total charges are high compared to the 
customers monthly income (where known); 
regular returned items or refused authorisations in respect of Point of Sale or 
ATM transactions; 
frequent requests for increased overdraft limits; [my emphasis]
hardcore borrowing* or increasing dependence on unauthorised overdrafts 
developing; 
change in account behaviour such as significantly reduced credit turnover; 
missed or overdue payments in respect of products held by the customer; and 
deteriorating trend in third party data e.g. CRA data. 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive, nor are the above necessarily indicators that a 
customer may be at risk of being in financial difficulties. Subscribers should consider what 
other information they have available that might indicate that a customer is or is not at risk of 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
* Hardcore borrowing is defined in the glossary of the code. It is defined as: 
Hardcore borrowing refers to the position where a customers current account overdraft 
remains persistently overdrawn for more than a month without returning to credit during that 
period.
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
Information Halifax itself provided
Halifaxs Reward Current Account getting started guide, in use from May 2016, had the 
following description of an overdraft: 
   
An overdraft is a type of borrowing facility. It lets you borrow money through your current 
account in the short term. Think of it as a temporary back-up to tide you over until pay day. As long as youre careful, using your overdraft facility can be a perfectly reasonable way to 
manage your money. 
I also think that it would be useful for me to set out some of the information contained in
Halifaxs Bank account terms and conditions (the BATC). I have referred to a copy, which
is dated November 2014. But its my understanding that this hasnt changed too much over 
the years.
Section 8 of the BATC covers overdrafts. Conditions 8.1 to 8.5 cover Planned overdrafts
which essentially are overdrafts that are agreed in advance and is the type of overdraft that
Mr B had.
Condition 8.2 states:
If we agree to a planned overdraft, we will decide your overdraft limit and tell you what it is.
We will also tell you when we will review it. At that time we will review your planned overdraft
and decide whether or not to continue to provide it at the same limit, and inform you of our
decision by letter. We may also change your planned overdraft if condition 8.3 applies.
And condition 8.3 goes on to state:
We may change your overdraft limit at any time but we will usually only reduce your
overdraft limit or withdraw your planned overdraft where:
(a) you have failed to fund your account regularly;
(b) you are in breach of a condition relating to use of the overdraft;
(c) your circumstances have changed for the worse;
(d) we reasonably believe that the risks of lending to you have increased;
(e) we reasonably believe that the reduction or withdrawal of the overdraft facility is
necessary to prevent you from incurring a debt which you will be unable to repay; or
(f) you have not regularly used the full amount of your planned overdraft facility within the 
last 12 months.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. I think 
there are three overarching questions, which I need to consider in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. These questions are:    
Did Halifax carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision in question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft 
limit)?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each limit increase, was there a 
point where Halifax ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?Did Halifax act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Halifax carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending decision in 
question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft limit)?
The rules and regulations during the period in question required Halifax to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Halifax had to think about whether repaying 
the overdraft sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In 
practice this meant that Halifax had to ensure that repaying the overdraft wouldnt cause     
Mr B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Halifax 
to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact 
of any repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Halifax did what it needed to each time it increased 
his overdraft limit. 
Halifax says that Mr B passed its affordability checks which were based on his income (and 
credits going into his account) and information from a credit reference agency. For each limit 
increase agreed, the proposed limit was deemed affordable. In Halifaxs view the fact that 
further limit increases, which Mr B requested, werent approved demonstrated this. 
Mr Bs overdraft was an open-end (running account) agreement (in other words, while 
Halifax committed to reviewing the facility each year there was no fixed end date) where 
there was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. CONC didnt set out what a reasonable period of time was. So I 
think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
Halifaxs final response to Mr Bs complaint also said:
When you apply for borrowing via Internet Banking, and choose not to discuss your 
finances with a member of staff, we assume that you have considered how much you want 
to borrow and how much you can afford to repay.
Ive thought about what Halifax has said. But Im not aware of anything in the rules and 
regulations, or the industry codes of practice, which state, or even infer, that lesser 
standards or a lesser duty of care applies to affordability assessments conducted for online 
applications. So to be clear and for the avoidance of doubt as the regulated firm here it was 
Halifaxs responsibility to assess whether Mr Bs overdraft and his limit increases were 
affordable, notwithstanding the fact this application was made online. Ive gone on to 
consider what Halifax did before Mr B was provided with his overdraft in light of this.
The information Ive been provided with suggests that Mr B first applied for an overdraft with 
Halifax on 4 August 2016. This application was successful and Mr B was provided with an 
overdraft with an agreed limit of £500.00. Mr B then made four applications to increase his 
overdraft limit over the following 48 hours.  His limit was increased from £500 to £1,000.00, 
£1,000.00 to £2,000.00 and then £2,000.00 to £4,000.00 on 5 August 2016. Finally, Mr Bs 
overdraft limit was then increased from £4,000.00 to £5,000.00 on 6 August 2016. What Ive 
seen also suggests that Mr B made three further applications to increase his limit to 
£6,000.00, £5,500.00 and £5,200.00 on 6 August 2016 but these applications were all 
declined.
Having considered the information provided, it seems to me that Halifax treated each of     
Mr Bs applications in isolation with little regard to what had happened previously or whether 
the information being provided was consistent. For example, when Mr B initially applied for 
his overdraft his monthly income was recorded as £5,000.00 a month. He apparently paid no 
rent and had other monthly commitments of £600 a month. Yet for the first limit increase, 
which was only a day later, Mr B was then recorded as having a monthly income of 
£4,500.00, paying mortgage or rent of £500 a month and having other expenditure of 
£1,100.00.
Furthermore, in my view, Halifaxs approach failed to take into account that some of the 
figures used were contradicted by what was showing on Mr Bs statements. For example, 
the direct debits going out of Mr Bs account for non-housing related expenditure clearly 
exceeded the amounts declared on the applications. 
Equally, its also concerning that Halifax accepted so many limit increases within such a 
short period of time, without appearing to take a closer look at Mr Bs financial 
circumstances. Im particularly mindful that this happened against a backdrop where the 
Lending Code (which Ive referred to earlier in this decision) suggested that frequent 
requests for increased overdraft limit increases is in itself considered an indication that a 
borrower may be experiencing financial difficulty. 
Halifax increased Mr Bs overdraft to a level where it was ten times the initial amount. And 
this happened within the space of 48 hours. Its also worth noting that Mr B was using pretty 
much all of the additional funds each time his limit was increased. Although it hasnt directly 
said this, I can only assume that, like our investigator has suggested, Halifax didnt really do 
much more until Mr B asked for his limit to be increased above £5,000.00 because thats 
how much it was prepared to lend Mr B at the outset had he requested this.I think that all of this led to Halifax failing to take into account the whole picture of its overall 
history with Mr B, in favour of a narrower focus on the first application and how much it might 
have been willing to lend at that stage. 
As Halifax proceeded with these limit increases with what appeared to be, over-optimistic 
assessments even in the face of Mr Bs indebtedness to it rapidly increasing, Im satisfied 
that the checks Halifax carried out before increasing Mr Bs overdraft limit werent 
reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Halifax that it shouldnt have 
provided Mr B with an overdraft and then increased Mr Bs limit in the way that it did?      
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mr Bs overdraft limit 
increases were provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide 
whether it is more likely than not that reasonable and proportionate checks would have told 
Halifax it shouldnt have provided the increases. 
As Halifax had access to them, I consider it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Mr Bs bank 
statements to form my view on what proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
shown Halifax. I have therefore done so and set out what I think Mr Bs statements ought 
reasonably to have demonstrated to Halifax.
In terms of the information on Mr Bs bank statements. I dont think its unfair to say that he 
had a very good income. In fact, Id even go as far as saying that Mr Bs income declaration 
was conservative given that he regularly received more each month than the amount he 
declared. And when Mr Bs committed expenditure  in other words, his payments to existing 
credit and normal living costs - is deducted from his monthly income, I think its fair to say 
that Mr B had sufficient funds left over to be able to repay £5,000.00 within a reasonable 
period of time. Therefore, based on the information provided, Im satisfied that further checks 
wouldnt have prevented Halifax from approving an overdraft limit of £5,000.00 for Mr B. 
As Ive explained, I do think that a pattern of Mr B applying for a limit increase, using all the 
funds and getting close to his limit before once again applying for further funds was 
emerging. But in reality this happened very quickly and over a matter of hours. And as it 
appears as though Halifax was prepared to lend Mr B £5,000.00 at the outset, I dont think 
theres enough here for me to make the finding that the overdraft limit increases approved 
shouldnt have been on affordability grounds. 
That said, I do think there were some clear warning signs in relation to Mr Bs overdraft 
usage - him having used all of his available credit very quickly. And I think that Halifax 
needed to monitor Mr Bs ongoing indebtedness and also been mindful of any signs which 
indicated that his overdraft might have become unsustainable for him, when it next reviewed 
the facility. 
However, for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next section of this decision, I dont think that 
Halifax did this. And this meant that it treated Mr B unfairly.   
Did Halifax act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?Halifax will be aware that the provisions of CONC imposed an obligation to monitor Mr Bs 
repayment record and offer assistance where it may have been apparent that he may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty. 
But leaving aside Halifaxs regulatory obligations, Im also satisfied that Halifax additionally 
committed to reviewing the overdraft on Mr Bs current account on an ongoing basis. I say 
this because as I set out in the other key publications section of this decision as a subscriber 
to the Standards of Lending Practice, Halifax committed to ensuring that Mr Bs overdraft 
usage wasnt suggesting that his finances were under strain. 
Equally Halifaxs own correspondence to Mr B said that Mr Bs usage of his overdraft facility 
would be reviewed on an ongoing basis. So it seems to me that  irrespective of the 
regulators rules - the Standards of Lending Practice and Halifaxs own terms and conditions 
confirmed Mr Bs use of his overdraft would be monitored. 
In any event, Mr Bs account statements have overdraft renewal dates on them. And this
suggests to me that his overdraft was, or at the very least it ought to have been, reviewed
and/or renewed on an annual basis. So even if I agree that CONC didnt prescribe precise
periods for any reviews, Im satisfied that Halifax itself committed to reviewing and, 
depending on the circumstances, potentially renewing Mr Bs overdraft each year.
Bearing in mind the circumstances of this case and in particular what Ive already highlighted 
about Mr Bs usage immediately after his overdraft was initially provided, Im particularly 
mindful of the renewal that took place in August 2017. So Ive considered whether it was fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to have renewed Mr Bs overdraft in August 2017.  
Halifax hasnt provided any details about what its review process in general would have 
involved or what it specifically did in relation to Mr Bs account in August 2017. But Ive given 
thought to what any review and renewals should fairly and reasonably have taken into 
account bearing in mind Halifaxs regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions of      
Mr Bs account.
As a starting point, I think that any review or renewal of Mr Bs overdraft had to include a 
review of Mr Bs repayment record  in other words it needed to look at how Mr Bs account 
was funded, how often it was in credit etc. I also think that the factors listed in conditions 8.2 
and 8.3 of the BATC also should have played a part. So I think that Halifax ought fairly and 
reasonably to have looked at whether any of the reasons it said might prompt it to reduce or 
withdraw Mr Bs overdraft were present in his circumstances.
Its also important to note that in the Our easy-to-understand overdrafts section of Halifaxs
Reward Current Account Getting Started Guide, (which Halifax itself provided to us) it states 
that any overdraft we agree is offered subject to status and repayable on demand. It is also
stated in the Important information section of this guide that Halifax subscribes to The
Lending Standards Boards Lending Code.
Ive also already set out that in the Overdraft glossary of this document that Halifax defines 
an overdraft as:
An overdraft is a type of borrowing facility. It lets you borrow money through your current
account in the short term to tide you over. Think of it as a back-up pot to dip into until pay
day. As long as youre careful, using your overdraft facility can be a perfectly reasonable way
to manage your money.
This message is reinforced in Halifaxs notifications of the 2017 changes to its overdraftpricing structure, which stated that overdrafts are intended to help out with short-term
borrowing needs. And it is a view shared by the FCA in Consultation Paper 18/42 High-Cost 
Credit Review: Overdrafts consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). I accept that 
this was published a year or so after the period Im looking at. But I do think that it offers 
some insight on the FCAs perspective on the use of overdrafts. So I do consider it to be of 
some relevance in this case.
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42 states:
Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency borrowing, but some consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period of time. This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
Bearing in mind all of this, In these circumstances, I think that any review or renewal of      
Mr Bs overdraft also ought fairly and reasonably to have had in mind that the facility was 
repayable on demand  in other words, had to be repaid in full should Halifax request this -, 
that it was only really intended to help out with short-term borrowing needs and the good 
practice set out in the Lending Code. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Bs financial position in August 2017. And 
as Halifax had access to them, I consider it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Mr Bs bank 
statements to form my view on what a fair and reasonable review of Mr Bs overdraft (and 
whether it should have been renewed) is more likely than not to have shown. Ive therefore 
gone on to do so and also set out what I think any such review ought fairly and reasonably to 
have uncovered. 
Mr Bs financial position in the period leading up to August 2017 renewal
Having carefully looked at the period in the year leading up to the August 2017 renewal, it is 
striking just how little time Mr Bs account was in credit. In my view, Mr Bs statements 
clearly show that he was hardcore borrowing  he was persistently overdrawn without ever 
really having a credit balance for any meaningful period. I can also see that there were 
instances where Mr B exceeded his overdraft limit. So while Halifax may argue that Mr B 
monthly income meant he could have cleared his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time, it is clear that this simply didnt happen over the course of the year he had it. 
However, what is most concerning of all on Mr Bs statements is the sheer amount of 
gambling transactions that took place in the immediate period prior to the increase. 
To be clear, Im not saying that it is up to Halifax  or any other bank for that matter - to tell a 
customer how they can and cant spend their money. But, in this case, as Mr B was 
constantly using his overdraft he wasnt spending his own money. He was using the banks 
money and gambling the funds that Halifax was lending to him. And it was becoming clear 
that his ability to repay what he owed was becoming more and more dependent on his 
success as a gambler. 
In my view, all of this means that, in August 2017, Halifax ought reasonably to have realised 
that it could no longer simply rely on Mr Bs income and regular expenditure to justify a 
£5,000.00 being affordable. The large sums going out to gambling transactions clearly 
affected Mr Bs ability to repay. And this in turn means that no reasonable decision maker, 
on these facts, could reasonably conclude that hed be able to repay what he owed on 
demand, or within any sort of reasonable period of time, without having regard to these 
transactions. I think that the sheer number of gambling transactions  especially in the lead 
up to the renewal meant that any further lending was simply unsustainable for Mr B. I think that instead of realising this and taking steps to help Mr B, as per its regulatory 
obligation to provide a customer in difficulty with assistance (and what its own terms and 
conditions said an adverse change in his financial circumstances would lead to), Halifax 
unfairly and unreasonably added a significant amount of overdraft interest, fees and charges 
to his balance. 
This meant that Mr B paid Halifax high amounts of interest for the privilege of allowing him to 
continue to hold what, in my view, had clearly become an unsustainable debt. Taking all of 
this into account, I find that Halifax didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr B when it 
renewed his overdraft in August 2017.  
Did Mr B lose out because Halifax didnt act fairly and reasonably towards him?
Ive already explained that Halifax ought reasonably to have realised that Mr B was unlikely 
to be able to sustainably repay his overdraft when it renewed it in August 2017. And at this 
point Halifax ought reasonably to have exercised forbearance and helped Mr B managed his 
debt. But instead of doing this Halifax allowed Mr B to continue drawing down further funds 
and this resulted in Mr B paying more in interest and charges.
Im also particularly concerned by what happened from November 2017 onwards. Halifaxs 
own records show that Mr B was referred to its money management team, just prior to its 
new overdraft pricing structure being introduced, because of his excessive overdraft usage 
and he had no savings available. Halifaxs further notes show that it had recorded Mr B had 
a gambling addiction, that he was using his overdraft to gamble and he couldnt afford the 
overdraft charges. 
Halifaxs argument for not removing the overdraft at this stage is because Mr B said he was 
already seeking assistance and he was referred to other organisations for help with his 
gambling and his other debts. Rather bizarrely Halifax has also appeared to suggest that 
removing the overdraft (or account) wouldnt have made a difference here as Mr B would 
have found another way to gamble when he started doing so again around April 2018. 
I have to say that I find Halifaxs rather flippant attitude to a customer it flagged as being 
vulnerable to be incredibly disappointing. It appears to be saying that as another party would 
have lent Mr B the money to gamble, it might as well have been Halifax. In my view, this is 
hardly in keeping with its overarching obligation, as set out in the FCA principles for 
business, to pay regard to Mr Bs interests and treat him fairly.
I think that this completely overlooks the fact that by placing restrictions on Mr Bs account  
in particular by refusing to lend him further funds - he would have found it far more difficult to 
gamble. Furthermore, there is a difference between removing all banking facilities from a 
customer and refusing to provide any credit whether on a formal or informal basis. 
Im particularly concerned that Halifax didnt see fit to reduce the overdraft limit even though 
it was aware Mr B had additionally said that he was struggling to manage his debts as well 
as had a gambling problem. And while Halifax says it thought that Mr Bs position had 
improved, not only was Mr B gambling even more from April 2018, but he was now also 
borrowing from payday and other high-cost lenders in order to stay within his overdraft limit.     
So I think that Halifax didnt treat Mr B fairly and reasonably by allowing him to continue 
gambling using his overdraft even after he told Halifax he was in financial difficulty because 
he had an addiction in November 2017. And I think that what Halifax should do to put things 
right for Mr B ought fairly and reasonably to reflect this.Overall and having carefully thought about everything provided  including the key questions 
I set out on page 9 of this decision - and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this case, Im satisfied that Halifax failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr B by 
renewing Mr Bs overdraft (and allowing him to continue using it) in August 2017. 
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Halifax putting Mr B in 
the position hed now be in if it hadnt renewed his overdraft in August 2017.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr B 
was allowed to continue using his overdraft and he used the funds  albeit Mr Bs statements 
show (and Halifax appears to accept) that significant amounts may well have been lost 
gambling. So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply 
not possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in if his overdraft hadnt been 
renewed  because I dont think Mr B has the funds available to return to Halifax (or the 
third-party debt purchaser his balance was sold to) for his balance to be cleared.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind the particular circumstances of the case. And Id like to 
explain the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Halifax to put things 
right in the following way.
As we explain on our website where we find, or a lender agrees, credit was provided (or a 
customer was allowed to continue access credit) irresponsibly, wed typically say its fair 
reasonable to expect the borrower to repay the funds they were lent, but not any associated 
interest, fees or charges. So to start with as Halifax ought to have realised the overdraft was 
unsustainable in August 2017, Im satisfied that it should remove any and all interest added 
to Mr Bs overdraft from August 2017 onwards from his current balance. 
However, having given careful thought to the matter before me and the circumstances of this 
particular case, I dont think that simply refunding the interest added to Mr Bs overdraft from 
August 2017 onwards goes far enough here. I think that this is the case for two reasons.  
Firstly, for the reasons I have in some detail already explained on page 15 of this decision, 
Halifax ought to have been even more mindful of the significant risk Mr B would gamble any 
funds lent to him from November 2017 onwards. And in these circumstances, his ability to 
sustainably repay what he was being lent let alone the associated interest was in large part 
dependant on his success gambling. 
Halifax chose to lend in these circumstances despite the reasonably foreseeable prospect of 
the funds being gambled away and no longer being available to repay any debt as a result. 
And while Halifax may have been comfortable with that from a creditworthiness point of view, 
I think that there was a reasonably foreseeable risk that lending Mr B in these circumstances 
might worsen his financial position as well as his personal circumstances. As I understand it, 
both parties are in agreement that the funds have dissipated as a result of gambling losses.
Its also my understanding that Mr B has since lost his job and is unable to work due to 
depression and anxiety. While I dont think that Halifaxs actions are directly responsible for 
this, I think its clear that things will be difficult for Mr B in his current financial position and its 
difficult to see how Mr B will be able to make payments to repay his overdraft going forward, 
in these circumstances, without experiencing severe financial difficulty. Bearing in mind the circumstances in which Halifax continued lending Mr B funds to gamble 
from November 2017 onwards, Mr Bs current financial position and the amount of distress 
and inconvenience Halifax unfairly continuing to lend to Mr B, in the circumstances it did is 
likely to have caused, I dont think removing the interest fees and charges added from 
August 2017 goes far enough. 
The circumstances of this case and in particular the financial hardship which is likely to be 
caused by requiring Mr B to pay funds he doesnt have and is unlikely to get, lead me to 
think that the fair and reasonable thing for Halifax to do here, given all the circumstances, is 
to deduct any amounts it lent Mr B to gamble (in other words, any gambling transactions 
which took place while Mr B was overdrawn) from Mr Bs current balance up to a maximum 
of the amount owed. In other words, Mr Bs current overdraft balance should be reduced by 
any amounts Halifax lent, which are clearly identifiable as gambling transactions up until the 
balance is cleared. Halifax does not need to refund any extra should the total amount lent 
exceed the amount now owed.    
As this will result in Mr B having repaid substantially less than the amount he was lent and is 
likely to go someway towards alleviating any distress and inconvenience going forward, Im 
satisfied that this also encompasses fair compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
Halifaxs actions in continuing to lend to him caused Mr B. So while Ive carefully thought 
about matters and I may have told Halifax to pay a not insubstantial amount of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused Mr B were it not for my direction to 
reduce and possibly clear Mr Bs outstanding balance, Im not making an additional award 
for distress and inconvenience.
I turn now to Mr Bs credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information regarding credit provided, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is 
upheld for irresponsible lending. However, I dont think that doing this would be the fair and 
reasonable thing to do here given what Im asking Halifax to do in terms of Mr Bs current 
overdraft balance. To explain, the basis for Mr Bs complaint was and is that he has a 
problem which was made worse by Halifaxs decision to continue lending to him. Ive 
accepted this is the case and this has played a large part in my decision to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that amending Mr Bs credit file to remove adverse 
information thus increasing the chances of him being able to access further funds would be 
counterproductive, unreasonable in its logic and arguably not in his best interests, or those 
of any potential lender. And as a result, I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to reflect 
what Im asking it to do in relation to the outstanding balance on Mr Bs overdraft. And 
depending on the final position of Mr Bs balance once all adjustments have been made 
Halifax should either record that whatever amount remains outstanding, or that it wrote off a 
balance on Mr Bs overdraft on his credit file.
It is my understanding that Halifax sold an outstanding balance on Mr Bs account to a third-
party debt purchaser. So Halifax will need to either buy the account back from the third-party 
and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr B an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc (trading 
as Halifax) should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman