DRN-3309650
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Argentis Financial Management Ltd (Argentis) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. 
He says that Argentis has found serious flaws in the process it used to advise customers to 
transfer DB scheme benefits. It has reviewed the transfers it has advised on, but Mr L says 
his transfer didnt get a full review. This is because Argentis thought the transfer was 
reasonable when it looked at it. 
But, Mr L thinks the advice was unsuitable for him and believes it may have caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr L met with Argentis in 2014 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand he 
had been a customer of Argentis for some time before this. 
Argentis completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and 
objectives. In brief these were:
He was 56 years old and married with three children who were all financially 
independent. His wife was employed. 
Mr L wasnt working but he was seeking employment on a part-time and moderately 
paid basis.
He had around £170,000 on deposit. 
Mr L had two deferred DB schemes from the same employer. These covered separate 
periods of employment. Ive called these DB1 and DB2. 
DB1 was a deferred pension from 1984. This had a transfer value of around £68,500 at the 
time of advice in 2015.  
DB2 was a deferred pension from a second period of employment up to 1997. This had a 
transfer value of around £800,000 at the time of advice. 
Mr L also had a Standard Life Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with a value of around 
£40,000. 
Argentis carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk. It was noted that he was an 
experienced investor, and he had some capacity to take risk. But overall, he only wanted to 
take a lower, or secure to moderate risk with his pension arrangements at this time. 
In February 2015, Argentis advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits from DB1 into a 
SIPP. The transfer value was around £68,500. Mr L took tax free cash of around £17,000 
and invested £50,000 (after fees) in the Threadneedle Money Market Series 2. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr L wasnt 
planning to look for work. And he wanted to use this smaller pension to provide an income 
until he could use the income from the larger DB2 scheme. He wanted to keep the money he 
held as savings intact as far as possible.
After this, Mr L and Argentis began to discuss the value of DB2. Mr L had noted that the 
transfer value of this had risen significantly, and so he was thinking about taking this higher  
value. 
In November 2015, Argentis advised Mr L to transfer the pension benefits from DB2 into a 
SIPP. The transfer value was around £800,000. Mr L took tax free cash of around £60,000 
and invested the remainder in a selection of funds. 
I understand Mr L also transferred his Standard Life SIPP into the new arrangement. This 
transfer does not form part of this complaint. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, so that Mr L could 
potentially receive greater pension benefits, to provide higher death benefits if he were to 
pre-decease his wife, to access a moderate amount of tax free cash and draw funds when 
needed. He wanted flexibility with his arrangements. 
And in general the advice was given on the basis that Mr L would use his smaller schemes 
for income before the age of 60. And then draw down a regular income from the larger DB2 
scheme. The amounts and timings of this were discussed and set out in the suitability letter. 
Mr L complained in 2021 to Argentis about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
was aware that Argentis has found problems in the way it gave advice in this type of 
situation. He thought that the advice he received should be fully reviewed.
Argentis didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it had reviewed the transfer and it thought the 
advice it gave was sound. There was a good chance that the DB2 transfer would provide 
better benefits than the DB scheme. And Mr L had wanted the flexibilities of income and 
increased death benefits. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that:
The transfer of the DB1 scheme was reasonable, especially as it was a small part of 
Mr Ls overall pension entitlement. 
The transfer of DB2 was financially viable and there was a good chance that Mr L 
would receive similar, or greater, pension benefits. 
Mr L also gained some flexibility and increased death benefits from this transfer. 
Mr L didnt agree, he reiterated his point that Argentis had found problems in how it 
recommended DB transfers. And so, its advice to him may not have been correct. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Argentis should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
The transfer of DB1
Mr L was given advice to transfer DB1 on the basis that he would use the proceeds of it to 
provide an income until he took benefits from his larger DB scheme, and other pensions, 
later on. Mr L has not directly said this was unsuitable for him. This pension was only a small 
proportion of his overall pension entitlement. And it is reasonable to assume that Mr L would 
expect that this fund would be fully depleted in the near future. So, I dont think it was 
unsuitable that Argentis recommended this course of action. 
The transfer of DB2
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension, on a joint 
life basis, at age 60 was quoted as 0.5% per year if Mr L took pension benefits and 0.1% if 
he took tax-free cash and pension benefits. This compares with the discount rate of 3.1% 
per year for the 3 (complete) years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
lower attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr L 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
But here, given the critical yields were under 1%, I think Mr L was likely to receive benefits of 
a higher overall value than the DB scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with 
that attitude to risk.
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr L, particularly when taking into account his other objectives. And I think that 
as the transfer was financially viable. Mr L had a reasonable choice as to whether he left his 
planning as it was or transferred DB2 and took the benefits, as he did. Ive looked at some of 
the reasons why it was recorded that he make the transfer below. Flexibility and tax-free cash
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr L wanted flexibility both at the time of 
transfer and in full retirement. 
It was documented, and is now agreed, that Mr L wanted to either stop working entirely or 
greatly reduce the amount of hours that he worked, at the time of the advice. 
Mr L didnt have a firm income requirement, although I do note certain regular withdrawal 
amounts were discussed. But Mr L did have well realised objectives for the pensions he had, 
such as withdrawing from this smaller DB schemes, then moving on the larger one at age 
60. And given that the transfer value of DB2 was expected to provide similar benefits to the 
scheme this was possible within the lower risk framework that Mr L wanted. 
Of course, there were advantages and disadvantages to this strategy. And there was a risk 
of the pension fund not performing as expected which may lead to Mr L having less in 
retirement. But Mr L was informed about all of these in the written information. And I think 
given his past experience of financial matters he would have been in a position to 
understand this. 
Overall, given that the transfer of DB2 was financially viable, Mr L was essentially left with a 
choice of transferring his pension and accessing the funds accrued or waiting until DB2s 
retirement age and taking the pension. And using his savings in the meantime. I dont think it 
was an unreasonable choice to take the transfer value and use it flexibly straight away. 
So, I think the transfer of the DB scheme benefits met his need for flexibility. 
Death benefits
Mr L was clear with the adviser that he did not have any need for the spouses or 
dependents pension that the DB scheme provided. So, I dont think losing these benefits 
disadvantaged Mr L. And I think he preferred the ability to pass on whatever remained of his 
pension to a beneficiary of his choice on his death. As was documented. 
Overall, I think the transfer of Mr Ls DB scheme benefits was suitable for him and met his 
aims at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman