DRN-3677095
The complaint
Miss V complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she tried to 
buy an item from a private seller and it turned out to have been a scam.
What happened
Miss V saw the item advertised for sale on a well-known social media marketplace. It was a 
limited-edition Dyson Airwrap hair styler. Miss V says this would have normally retailed new 
for between £450 and £500, but that it was out of stock at the retailers.
The seller said they were selling on behalf of their fiance who didnt have a social media 
account. The price was £370 including delivery. 
Miss V says she asked to pay by a method offering buyer protection. But the seller told her 
that wasnt possible and that shed need to send the money by bank transfer instead. The 
seller gave her a different payee name to use, explaining this was her fiances name.
Miss V then sent the money by Faster Payments transfer from her Monzo account to the sort 
code and account number shed been given by the seller. 
Miss V says that when she was making the payment, she saw a message saying that the 
payee name had been confirmed by the receiving bank. However, Monzo says that the bank 
to which she was sending the money wasnt part of the Confirmation of Payee scheme. 
Monzo said that the message Miss V saw didnt say that the payee name matched, but 
rather that it couldnt be checked.
The following day (which was New Years Day), Miss V hadnt received any confirmation of 
postage from the seller. She reported what had happened to Monzo.
Shortly after this, Miss V received a reply from the seller saying they would post it the 
following day. But the seller didnt do this. They removed the listing from the marketplace 
and blocked Miss V on social media. 
Monzo looked into Miss Vs scam claim. It tried to recover the money from the receiving 
bank, but no funds remained.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. But it has agreed to abide by the principles of that code. 
Monzo agreed that Miss V had been the victim of a scam. But it said it had no responsibility 
to refund her loss under the CRM Code. It said Miss V had not done enough to verify who 
she was paying, or to check they had the item they were offering for sale. Monzo also says 
Miss V had awareness of the risks of the transaction she was making. It had evidence to 
show:
- that when Miss V thought shed fallen victim to a scam involving the same social 
media marketplace three months earlier, it had told her that making payments for 
goods by Faster Payments was like giving someone cash, and had advised her to 
always check payments were going to someone she knew and trusted;
- its chat history with Miss V showed that when shed had another problem with a 
Faster Payments transfer two weeks before this scam, it had again told her that 
sending a bank transfer was similar to using cash, meaning when money was sent 
the bank couldnt call it back easily; and,
- the chat history also showed shed flagged another dispute 5 days before the scam 
involving a purchase on an auction site where the seller wasnt willing to refund her.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Vs complaint on 10 August 2022. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold her complaint. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Im sorry to disappoint Miss V but Ive reached a different outcome to the investigator 
and I dont think Monzo acted unfairly by declining Miss Vs claim under the CRM Code. 
While this was a scam that tricked Miss V into sending a payment and receiving nothing 
in return that doesnt mean Monzo has any responsibility for the loss.
Ive taken into account the CRM Code when considering Miss Vs complaint. The CRM 
Code requires firms to reimburse victims of APP scams like this one, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. But it doesnt mean that every scam must be reimbursed.
In this case, Monzo says it is relying on one of the CRM Codes exceptions to 
reimbursement, namely that Miss V made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing what she did. Specifically, it seeks to rely on the following exception in the 
CRM Code: 
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having thought about this matter carefully, I dont think Monzo have acted unfairly by 
relying on this exception. Neither do I think theyve failed to meet their own obligations 
 both under the CRM Code and, more generally, to protect Miss V from financial harm 
from fraud. So, I dont think it is liable to refund her now. Ill explain why I think this.
Did Miss V have a reasonable basis for belief in making this payment?
Our investigator asked Miss V about how the scam had unfolded. Miss V shared the 
messages shed kept from her interactions with the scammer. Most of these messages 
were from after the payment was made, and unfortunately the scammer has taken down 
the original advert.
The item was one that Miss V later told Monzo would normally have retailed for more 
than she was paying and that new ones were out of stock. That doesnt mean the price 
was necessarily too good to be true, but the combination of being available and at a 
good price would have been understandably appealing.
But besides the initial advert Miss V had little to go on in deciding whether or not the 
seller was trustworthy. Miss V explains that shed been unable to check the sellers 
social media profile because it was private but saw that they didnt have any negative reviews on the marketplace. So, it seems her belief in the trustworthiness of this seller 
was based mainly on this lack of negative reviews.
With limited information about the sellers feedback, the particularly good price for a 
popular item that was widely out of stock, and not knowing anything more about the 
seller, Id have expected Miss V to be cautious about the purchase. She was trying to 
buy this item from someone she didnt know personally, and who was a private seller not 
a business. Shed also had recent experience using the platform where she believed for 
a while that shed lost her money. 
Miss V asked the seller if she could pay by using another payment method that offers 
buyer protection for this type of purchase. That was a sensible precaution in the 
circumstances.
However, the seller told Miss V that she couldnt accept that, and said Miss V would 
need to pay by bank transfer. The evidence Monzo has provided convinces me that Miss 
V would reasonably have known the risks that this payment method involved. I also think 
that the inability to use the alternative method she originally suggested should have 
prompted her to be yet more cautious before making the payment.
When the seller gave her a payee name for the bank transfer that didnt match their own 
name the seller told Miss V that this was because she was selling it on behalf of her 
partner who didnt have a social media account. There was therefore no clear 
connection between the name she was paying and the name of the social media 
account beyond the story the seller told her.
While Miss V recalls seeing that this name was matched by the receiving bank, Monzo 
has explained that the receiving bank did not have the capability to check the payee 
name, so she was only shown a message saying that it wasnt possible to check.
In short therefore, there was very little here to provide Miss V with reassurance that the 
seller was who they said they were and that they were legitimately selling the item they 
claimed to be selling. There was also very little to reassure Miss V that she was sending 
money to the person she thought she was. 
Overall, I think Miss V did have (or ought reasonably to have had) some concerns about 
the risk associated with this purchase. It follows that I dont think she had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the seller of the item was legitimate or that she was sending 
money to who she thought she was.
Should Monzo have done more to protect Miss V from financial harm from fraud?
Ive also thought about whether, given its obligations, Monzo ought to have done more 
to protect Miss V from financial harm from fraud. The CRM Code requires a firm to 
provide an Effective Warning where it identifies a scam risk in a payment journey. 
Monzo did provide general scam warnings to Miss V, but I do not consider it gave Miss 
V an Effective Warning.
But in this case, Miss V was making an unremarkable payment. Looking at her 
statements shows that on the same date as the scam payment shed made more than 
twenty other Faster Payments transfers for varying amounts and totalling over £1,500. I 
dont think the amount of this individual payment or the fact it was going to a new payee 
would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been concerned that she might 
have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that she made it. For these reasons, I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk in the 
payment journey. That means there wasnt any obligation on Monzo to provide an 
Effective Warning and so it hasnt failed to meet its obligations under the CRM Code.
For essentially the same reason  the fact the transaction would have appeared 
unremarkable  I cant reasonably say Monzo ought to have recognised that Miss V was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, I cannot fairly have expected Monzo to have 
intervened before the payment left her account.
Recovery of Funds
When Miss V reported the scam Monzo did try to recover the money she had sent to the 
fraudster. Ultimately this was not successful. But that outcome is not surprising given 
that fraudsters tend to move the funds on as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, because 
the fraudster was in touch with Miss V at the time she was making the payment and for 
over twenty-four hours afterwards, it seems more likely than not that they were able to 
utilise the funds as soon as they were sent.
So overall, I dont think Monzo is liable to refund Miss V for the money she lost. While I 
know this outcome will be disappointing for Miss V, I hope shell understand my reasons 
for reaching it.
I invited both sides to provide any further arguments or information by 31 August 2022, after 
which point, I said I would issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss V responded to my provisional decision saying in summary:
- Shed had confirmation that the seller had received the funds  they just didnt send 
her the item shed paid for. If shed paid for the item from a shop or business they 
would have refunded her so why should it be different because shed bought 
something from a private seller on an online marketplace;
- Her finances had nothing to do with her complaint  the point was that she had been 
defrauded and that the bank hadnt supported her;
- Shed lost a significant sum to the scam and it had impacted her mental health; and
- Shed had to wait too long for an outcome and didnt accept it was fair she shouldnt 
be refunded.
My role here is to reach what I believe is the fair outcome in all the circumstances, and in 
doing so Ive considered everything afresh and taken into account what Miss V has said. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im very sorry to hear about the impact the scam had on 
Miss V  shes been the victim of a crime. 
But that doesnt Monzo is responsible for what happened or that the bank is responsible for 
refunding her  the money went to a seller who seems to have had no intention of sending 
Miss V the item shed paid for. The seller hasnt returned the money to Monzo or to Miss V.I can see that when Miss V first told Monzo about what had happened it took the appropriate 
steps to look into everything  including trying to recover her money. But nothing remained in 
the other account to be recovered  it was already too late.
While I know Miss V thinks it needed to do more to support her, Monzo did what it was 
required to do here. It gave her an answer to her claim and then to her complaint. While the 
scam has had a big impact on Miss V, this was caused by the criminal actions of the 
scammer  not Monzo. I cant fairly hold it responsible for what the seller did  it had no 
involvement in what happened beyond carrying out Miss Vs instructions to send the 
payment. As I said in my provisional decision, I think Monzo treated her fairly and in line with 
what it should have done under the CRM Code and otherwise.
I understand Miss Vs point that if shed bought something from a shop or business, shed 
expect that the shop or business would have refunded her if they couldnt deliver the item. 
But whether Miss V had sent a bank transfer to pay for something from a business, a shop 
or a private seller, it wouldnt be Monzo that should refund her if something went wrong  it 
would be the shop, business or seller. And this was a private seller, not a shop or business. 
So, the chance of receiving a refund if things didnt work out was based on whether that 
seller was trustworthy or not. Unfortunately, this seller wasnt trustworthy. But that isnt 
something I can hold Monzo responsible for.
So while I appreciate this will not be the answer Miss V wants, I dont find Monzo was at fault 
or that it needs to do more than it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Miss Vs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman