DRN-3904994
The complaint
Mr B complains that West Bay Insurance Plc told him that he would have to pay the full 
years premiums even though he cancelled his policy mid-year. 
What happened
Mr B had a policy with West Bay for his car which he paid in monthly instalments from June  
2022.  
In September 2022 Mr B was involved in an accident where he veered into the lane of a 
third-party vehicle.  
After the accident, Mr B suffered an absence seizure so he voluntarily surrendered his 
driving licence and sold his car. 
He notified West Bay and cancelled his policy. However, they told him that he would need to 
pay the whole years premiums because there had been a third-party claim on his policy 
from the accident. 
Mr B raised a complaint about this, but it wasnt processed properly and so in their final 
response, West Bay acknowledged this and refunded the £20 late payment fee and paid £30 
for the inconvenience caused. However, they said the remainder of the premium was still 
due. 
Mr B was unhappy with West Bays response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Bs complaint but he thought West Bay had 
acted fairly and within the terms of the policy.  
 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether West Bay have fairly applied the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr B and West Bay. 
Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
At page 9 of Mr Bs policy it says:
Cancellation fee
If either you or We cancel more than 14 days after receiving your policy 
documentation, BISL Limited will charge you a fee of £50 plus the cost for the period 
of cover you have benefitted from.
This is providing no claims have been made, if a claim has been made, or there has 
been an incident which may lead to a claim, no refund will be given and all premiums 
will be due. If any premium remains outstanding at the time that a claim is paid to 
you. We or your credit provider may ask the insurer to deduct any outstanding 
amounts from any sum due to you.
Mr B has said that he thinks the remaining premium is only due if he makes a claim, and as 
he didnt claim for the damage to his car, he shouldnt have to pay the remainder of the 
premiums. 
However, I think it is clear in the above term that the remaining premiums are due if any 
claim is made, or if there has been an incident which might lead to a claim  so as soon as  
West Bay are notified that someone wants to claim against the policy. 
West Bay have confirmed that a claim has been made by a third-party in relation to the 
accident Mr B was involved in, and they say that although they contacted him about this at 
the time, he didnt respond, and so the claims team have made decision based on the 
information they had, and raised a payment for third-party damages. 
West Bay have confirmed that they made Mr B aware of the position with regard to the 
premiums when he contacted them to cancel the policy, and advised him that as he was 
experiencing financial difficulties it would be passed to a recovery agent for collection. 
And so, for the reasons above, Im satisfied that West Bay have acted fairly and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when asking Mr B to pay the premiums for the 
remainder of the policy year.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that this is unfair as he has had to give up driving for medical 
reasons and no longer has transport, and I can understand that this will have been upsetting 
for him, but I can also see that he has had the benefit of cover for a period including when 
the accident occurred, and Im satisfied that the terms and conditions are clear. 
I am pleased to see that West Bay have appropriately compensated Mr B for not properly 
processing his complaint, and I dont propose to interfere with any award already made.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc and so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman