DRN-2696776
The complaint
Mr F complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance applied additional 
charges after he returned the car he had acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) 
following a mileage discrepancy being confirmed.
What happened
Mr F entered into a HPA with Motonove Finance in December 2018. At the time the cars 
mileage was disclosed as 4,710 miles and the price Mr F paid reflected this. Mr F says that 
he had intended to part exchange the car in November 2020, but he then found out that the 
mileage had been reset before it was supplied to him. It was then confirmed that the mileage 
was 20,316 in November 2017 and so would have been higher than this by the time Mr F 
entered the HPA. 
Mr F raised a complaint with MotoNovo in November 2020 which was upheld. 
MotoNovo accepted the issue with the mileage and gave Mr F the choice of either keeping 
the car and receiving a payment of £3,480 to reflect the difference in the value of the car due 
to the mileage discrepancy or rejecting the car and having his agreement unwound. It said if 
the agreement was unwound Mr F would be liable for the excess mileage charge. It noted 
Mr F had an annual mileage allowance of 9,000 miles and he had exceeded this by over 
10,000 miles. It calculated that Mr F owed £1,738.93 for the excess mileage. It then 
deducted amounts for Mr Fs deposit, a distress and inconvenience payment and an 
adjustment for the monthly repayments. This left Mr F with an amount of just over £600 to 
pay.
Mr F said that had this issue not arisen he would have part exchanged the car and therefore 
not been required to pay the excess mileage charge. Therefore, he didnt think the outcome 
provided by MotoNovo was fair and raised his complaint with this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said it wasnt disputed that the mileage had been 
misrepresented. She noted Mr F was intending to part exchange the car when he discovered 
the mileage discrepancy and thought it fair that he was put back in the position he would 
have been had this gone ahead. 
Our investigator said that had Mr F settled the agreement and part exchanged the car Mr F 
wouldnt have needed to pay the excess mileage charge. She said the settlement amount 
was confirmed in December 2020 as £27,395.23 and while she couldnt say how much Mr F 
would have received if hed part exchanged the car external data sources suggested the 
cars value was around the same as the settlement amount. She didnt think the deposit of 
£100 that Mr F paid towards the HPA needed to be refunded. She noted that Mr F had been 
making monthly payments based on the value of the car with the lower (incorrect mileage) 
and so had been overpaying. MotoNovo had calculated the over payments as £953,81 and 
she thought this should be paid to Mr F. Regarding compensation she didnt think the £75 
offered was enough given the distress and inconvenience Mr F was caused and 
recommended a payment of £150. 
MotoNovo didnt accept our investigators view. It reiterated that Mr F had been given 
options and decided to reject the car and so the excess mileage charge had been fairly 
applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F acquired a used car through a HPA. Under the regulations Motonovo can be held liable 
if the car was misrepresented to Mr F. The car was supplied with a mileage of 4,710 and 
priced accordingly. When Mr F was in discussions about part exchanging the car in 
November 2020, he discovered the mileage was significantly higher. Evidence has been 
provided to show the mileage was 20,316 in November 2017. Based on the evidence I 
accept that a misrepresentation occurred.
Motonovo accepted the issue with the mileage and provided Mr F with two options. One to 
keep the car and receive a refund of £480 to reflect its calculated price difference due to the 
difference in mileage, or to reject the car. However, I agree with our investigator that the 
fairest resolution to this complaint is to consider the actions Mr F would have taken had the 
mileage not been misrepresented.
Mr F has explained he was discussing part exchange of the car when the mileage issue was 
identified. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept that had this issue not been present he 
would have part exchanged the car. I note the comments Motonovo has made and the 
option it gave for Mr F to keep the car, but I understand he would have concerns about his 
ability to sell the car in the future given the mileage discrepancy and that the actual mileage 
was unknown.
Therefore, I find that a resolution reflecting a part exchange is reasonable. Had this 
happened Mr F wouldnt have incurred the excess mileage charge. He would have needed 
to settle his HPA and MotoNovo has said the settlement amount in December 2020 was 
£27,395. It isnt possible to say what price Mr F would have received for the car at that time, 
but our investigator researched this and this suggested the price was around the settlement 
amount. Given this, I think the fairest outcome is to accept the proceeds from a part 
exchange would have settled the agreement with nothing further owing or remaining.
The above puts Mr F back in the position he would a have been had the part exchange 
taken place. However, he still needs to be compensated for the overpayments he made 
through the agreement. He did have fair use and so it is reasonable he was liable for 
monthly payments, but these were higher than would have been the situation had the 
mileage been accurately recorded. Motonovo calculated the refund as £953.81. I note this is 
based on the mileage information received from November 2017 and it isnt clear what the 
actual mileage was at the point the car was supplied to Mr F in December 2018. But without 
further evidence I do not find I can say this amount needs to be adjusted and so I find it 
reasonable to say Motonovo pay this amount to Mr F to reflect the monthly payments 
differential.
This issue has caused Mr F distress and inconvenience. While he clearly had use of the car 
and wasnt affected by the issue until November 2020, he did then have to find the evidence 
to support his case and had been making payments for a car with a much higher mileage 
than he was told. Therefore, I agree with our investigators recommendation of paying him 
£150 compensation.
Overall, while I understand the point Motonovo has made, I find the fairest resolution to this complaint is to put Mr F back in the position he would have been had he been able to part 
exchange the car as he had intended and then refund the calculated difference in the 
monthly repayments.
Putting things right
To resolve the complaint, I think Motonovo Finance should:
end the agreement if this hasnt been done already;
refund Mr F £953.81 to reflect the overpayment made in his monthly payments, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date each overpayment was made, until 
the date of settlement;
pay Mr F £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr F's credit file. 
If Motonovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman