DRN-2744524
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited rejected Mrs Ps total and 
permanent disability (TPD) claim. 
Mr P has brought this complaint on his wifes behalf  but for ease Ill refer to Mrs P 
throughout the decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In September 2019 Mrs P made a TPD claim on her critical illness policy for carotid 
cavernous fistulus (CCF) with an underlying neurological condition. Aviva reviewed the claim 
but decided to wait to see the results of surgery Mrs P had in January 2020. Following this 
surgery, Mrs Ps surgeon said he hoped it would help Mrs P with her double vision. But he 
didnt think it was related to her underlying neurological problem. 
Aviva considered the claim again but didnt accept it. It said its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) 
felt psychological intervention and cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) would be key to 
helping Mrs P manage her condition going forward before it could agree that Mrs P had met 
the TPD definition. 
Mrs P remained unhappy with this decision, so she made a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that although Mrs Ps 
condition couldnt be cured, he wasnt satisfied all treatment options had been explored. So, 
he didnt think Mrs P had met the TPD definition. 
Mrs P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said her treating 
consultant had clearly stated there was no cure for her condition and there were no further 
treatment options for her to pursue which would mean she could return to her job role. So, 
she didnt think it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mrs P, which is made worse given her current state of health. I want to assure her that I 
didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for her. While I 
dont want to add to Mrs Ps distress, I cant say Aviva has treated her unfairly. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mrs Ps policy defines TPD as the following; 
Total permanent disability  unable before age 65 to do your own occupation ever again.
Loss of the physical or mental ability through an illness or injury before age 65 to the extent 
that the insured person is unable to do the material and substantial duties of their own 
occupation ever again. The material and substantial duties are those that are normally 
required for, and/or form a significant and integral part of, the performance of the person's 
own occupation that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified.
Own occupation means your trade, profession or type of work you do for profit or pay. It is 
not a specific job with any particular employer and is irrespective of location and availability.
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout life 
with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or the insured person 
expects to retire.
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mrs P met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Aviva 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that it 
did. 
In July 2019 Mrs Ps consultant neurologist said that she felt Mrs Ps condition was due to 
neck related headaches.  And she referred Mrs P to paramedical specialists such as a 
physiotherapist in the hope this may improve her symptoms. But the consultant noted that 
she didnt think the referrals would cure Mrs Ps neurological condition. Mrs Ps specialist 
has confirmed that, in her opinion, Mrs P will no longer be able to carry out her occupation 
ever again and she expects the disability will last throughout her life with no prospect of 
improvement.
Aviva said in one of its letters that it accepts Mrs P will not be cured, but it doesnt 
necessarily mean she wont be able to follow her occupation ever again. Avivas CMO has 
said the referrals by Mrs Ps consultant were non-neurological in nature (physio, balance 
physiotherapist, psychiatrist, psychologist). The CMO felt CBT could potentially stabilise and 
perhaps normalise Mrs Ps mood. And that there was extensive evidence of the efficacy of 
CBT for a wide range of mental health and physical difficulties. The CMO added that 
although the benefits of undertaking such treatment can take months to consolidate, he said 
there was a possibility an improvement could be seen in Mrs Ps symptoms within twelve 
months of starting the treatment.  
Ive considered both consultants evidence carefully. Having done so, Ive found the evidence 
from Avivas CMO to be more persuasive - on balance. A TPD claim is a last resort payment 
after every treatment option has been exhausted and there is a medical consensus across 
the various spectrums to say there is no prospect of improvement.  And the test is a high 
bar. What insurers will normally consider is whether a customers condition will not improve. 
And if there are treatment options outstanding, then those should be explored further. I understand that Mrs Ps consultant neurologist has decided there is no further treatment 
she can offer apart from some medication to manage the pain. And that in her opinion the 
referrals she made wont help Mrs P. But I havent seen persuasive evidence that Aviva was 
provided with evidence from other medical disciplines that have come to the same 
conclusion (such as a psychologist and physiotherapist) or that all possible treatment options 
(CBT) have been explored. So, Im not satisfied Aviva unreasonably considered the 
possibility of other possible treatments here. 
So, Im afraid I cannot fairly ask Aviva to accept Mrs Ps claim based upon the medical 
evidence Ive seen here. 
Mrs P is entitled to make a further claim to Aviva during the term of her policy if she has new 
medical evidence which Aviva hasnt already considered or her situation changes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman