DRN-4065926
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt with 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy after his car was written off following an 
accident. 
What happened
Mr C has motor insurance with Advantage which started in August 2021. 
Mr C was involved in a car accident in May 2022 and as a result his car was written off. Mr C 
says he provided Advantage with the pictures for the vehicle valuation and within a few days 
Advantage told him he owed £600. Mr C says he was shocked since he was expecting 
settlement of around £2700. 
Mr C contacted Advantage who explained there was finance on the vehicle which was 
deducted from the overall valuation. And this was the reason the settlement wasnt what Mr 
C was expecting. Mr C says the finance was taken out in 2018 which was two years before 
he made a cash purchase for the car. 
Mr C says he carried out a HPI check on the vehicle before he purchased it but that didnt 
reveal any outstanding finance on the car. Advantage told him since there was finance on 
the car it would not pay Mr Cs claim directly to him. Instead it would pay the finance 
company. Mr C says this left him without his car, and without his settlement. Mr C also had 
to return his courtesy car and so he was left with no form of transport. 
Advantage told Mr C he would need to contact the finance company and the previous owner 
of the car in order to deal with the matter further. 
Advantage said Mr C could retain the vehicle and pay the remainder of the car cost after the 
salvage fee was taken. This totalled approximately £700. 
Mr C says the whole matter has been very stressful. He wants Advantage to pay him the 
settlement money which he says he is entitled to. So Mr C complained to Advantage.
Advantage said it inspected Mr Cs car and deemed it a total loss. While processing the 
claim it ran a Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud & Theft Register check which showed there was 
outstanding finance on the vehicle. It said as an insurer it had a responsibility to pay out the 
person or company who held a financial interest in the car. And since there was outstanding 
finance it would have to pay the company for the settlement of the total loss. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response from Advantage and so brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said having reviewed the evidence 
she didnt think Advantage had treated Mr C fairly. She said Mr C demonstrated his 
ownership of the car and that he had good title. So she said Advantage should pay Mr Cs 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The investigator recommended 
Advantage pay Mr C £500 in recognition of the distress and worry caused to him by 
incorrectly declining the claim. 
Advantage disagreed. It said it had been court ordered to settle the claim in this way and that 
the Hire Purchase Act 1964 referred to by the investigator seemed outdated. And so the 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Advantage paid the settlement for the vehicle to the insolvency service because the finance 
company was wound up. Advantage said it did this because it was court ordered to deal with 
the claim in this way. 
As part of my review of this matter I asked Advantage for a copy of the Order which explicitly 
directed it to settle the claim in the manner it did. Advantage provided me with a copy of the 
Order for winding up the finance company. But the fact the finance company was wound up 
was never in dispute.
Advantage said the Hire Purchase Act 1964 referred to by the investigator seems outdated 
since anyone can now do their due diligence when purchasing a new car. But I dont agree. 
The Act is current legislation and is therefore still relevant. 
I carefully reviewed the detailed submissions from both parties. I didnt see anything that 
persuaded me Advantage were directed to settle the claim in the way it did. And I dont 
consider it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C purchased the car privately and didnt take out any finance to purchase it. At the time of 
purchase and until the accident Mr C wasnt aware the car was subject to any finance. Ive 
seen evidence of the checks carried out and Im satisfied these show there was no 
outstanding finance on the car. I know Advantage have said the checks were carried out 
after the vehicle was purchased. But on balance its likely the outstanding finance wouldnt 
have appeared had the checks been carried out earlier given the marker wasnt removed on 
settlement of that finance. 
Mr C purchased the vehicle as a private buyer for his own personal use. He has always 
maintained he purchased the car in good faith and his testimony has remained consistent 
throughout this matter. So Im satisfied hes got good title to the car which gives him the 
right to keep and own the car.  
Advantage have relied on the terms and conditions which say, If you are still paying for your 
car under a hire purchase or leasing agreement your insurer may at their option, and where 
appropriate, pay a claim for the total loss of your car to the hire purchase or leasing 
company. But Mr C wasnt paying for his car under a hire purchase or lease agreement. 
And the lease agreement here was from two years before Mr C purchased his car. Mr C 
provided evidence which shows the car was a cash purchase. And so I dont think its fair for 
this term to be applied in this situation.  
I can see Mr C has suffered considerable stress and anxiety as a result of this matter and I 
empathise with the situation he has found himself in. Ive thought about the impact this 
matter is likely to have had on Mr C. His insurance policy is meant to put him in the position he was in before the accident, so he was expecting a settlement which would allow him to 
purchase a replacement vehicle. And so when Advantage didnt pay the claim directly to Mr 
C the impact would have been significant. 
Our investigator said Advantage should pay Mr C £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive thought about this carefully. Its not our role to punish businesses 
where they havent acted fairly towards consumers. But given the circumstances described 
by Mr C, the time taken to settle the claim, being provided with incorrect information, being 
left without means to purchase a new car, I agree with the investigator. I think this 
recommendation is a fair one that falls in line with our services approach and what I would 
have directed had it not already been made.  
Putting things right
Advantage should;
pay Mr C the claim in line with the policy. 
add interest to this at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of Mr Cs claim until 
the date it makes payment. 
Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman