DRN-2150615
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd would not open a business account and 
caused delays during the application process.
What happened
P wanted to open a business account with Revolut. It started its application on 2 August 
2019 and says that it repeatedly sent in the information Revolut asked for. But there were 
delays and it complains that Revolut has wasted time and caused inconvenience.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that on receiving 
the application Revolut had asked for more information about the nature of Ps business and 
for proof of its operating address. It could not accept a bank statement or a digital letter from 
the tax office and said that an office rental agreement or utility bill would be sufficient. 
Revolut had explained that it needed to ensure it met legal and regulatory obligations and 
make a number of checks about any new customer. It had sent reminders about the 
information it needed and was not satisfied with what it had received. He thought Revolut 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions.
P did not agree. The director who represents it said that we had shown undue bias. Proof of 
address had been repeatedly sent and this was adequate. There had been a lack of 
professionalism and communication. This service had made a poor attempt at investigation 
and asked it to complete the wrong form. This issue had been going on for a year and we 
had not spent enough time investigating things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the directors frustration at not being able to open an account with Revolut for 
P. I need first to say that the decision whether or not to open an account is a commercial one 
for Revolut and not something wed generally interfere with. As our investigator has 
explained its Revoluts responsibility to make sure it meets legal and regulatory 
requirements. That includes verifying who its customer is and understanding the nature of 
that business. Its entitled to set its own criteria and decide on the type of evidence it needs 
and will accept.
Im going to focus on one part of those checks. Revolut wanted to make sure it had the 
operating address for P confirmed. P had sent a bank statement and a document from the 
tax office but Revolut told it these were not sufficient in both email chat and in a phone call 
with the director. In the final response to the complaint it said that it needed a utility bill and 
that if the director operated P from home it could be his proof of his personal address 
provided he changed the address on the application for P. In a subsequent email chat with P 
on 15 February 2020 and having reviewed the statement again Revolut said that According 
to the provided bank statement, your account balance is zero, therefore we cannot accept 
this document as proof of operating address and later that it might suggest that your 
account is already inactive.
The other key point I want to look at is whether Revolut was clear about what it needed. I 
think that it was. It set out in both a phone call and then email chat the information it needed 
with a reminder in September 2019. It said it had not received this before P raised a 
complaint. And I cant see evidence that beyond confirming the industry SIC code for P any 
detailed information was given say about the nature of the business, including Revoluts 
suggestions of an invoice, evidence of contact with a customer, website address or outline 
business plan.
Im afraid I think that for the reasons Ive given the issues here are clear and that there is 
sufficient information to address them. Im not persuaded that Revolut acted unreasonably 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything more. I know, given what the director has already 
said about our investigation, he will be disappointed with the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman