DRN-2918827
The complaint
Mr E complains that Europa Group Limited cancelled his motorbike insurance policy after he 
provided it with evidence of his No Claims Discount (NCD) as requested. He wants £150 
compensation for the risk of being uninsured for a month. 
What happened
Mr E took out a policy through Europa and it asked him for proof of his NCD. Mr E didnt 
provide this within the 10 days specified and Europa followed this up with letters, emails and 
calls. Mr E eventually called Europa and emailed his NCD proof. This wasnt picked up and 
so the policy cancelled. Mr E noticed this when he received a refund. When he then called 
Europa, it said it was too late to reinstate the policy. Mr E was unhappy that he didnt know 
he was uninsured for a month. Europa agreed that its service could have been better 
following the cancellation. It waived its cancellation charge and paid Mr E £30 compensation.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Europa 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to request the NCD proof within 10 days. She 
thought it had reasonably chased Mr E for this and warned him that his policy may cancel. 
When Mr E called and agreed to provide the NCD proof, she thought it had told him that it 
would acknowledge receipt. Mr E didnt receive a reply and didnt respond to messages left 
by Europa. So she thought its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr E replied that he hadnt received the notice of cancellation. He said when he called 
Europa, it told him the policy was still live. He thought Europa had admitted liability for him 
being uninsured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms 
of business and fairly and reasonably.
I think Europas welcome letter sent to Mr E when he took out his policy clearly asks him to 
provide proof of his NCD entitlement within 10 days. When this wasnt provided, I think 
Europa reasonably chased him for this by letter, email and phone calls. It then sent Mr E a 
notice of cancellation by letter. 
Mr E said he didnt receive this, but I can see that it was sent to the correct address and he 
responded asking why his policy was cancelling. Europa didnt respond until a week later. 
But I think it had already made it clear what it required and the consequences if he didnt 
provide his NCD proof.
Mr E then called Europa and he was told his policy had cancelled but it may be reinstated if 
his NCD proof was provided and validated that day. Mr E sent the proof in, but unfortunately 
this wasnt picked up. 
Mr E thought Europa had admitted liability for him being uninsured for a month. But I dont 
agree. I think Europa agreed that its level of service following the cancellation could have 
been better. It said there had been a delay in responding to his email following the 
cancellation notice. And it said it hadnt picked up Mr Es NCD proof on the day it was sent 
in, as it said it would. 
But I think Mr E had already been told that the policy had cancelled, and that it may be 
reinstated. He was told to expect an email telling him the next steps, but this wasnt sent. 
Europa then left him two messages to contact it, but he didnt do so as he thought the matter 
was settled. I think Mr E could have responded to these messages and noted that he hadnt 
received an email after he sent in his NCD proof. 
But Mr E didnt contact Europa again until he noted the refund to his bank account. By this 
time it was too late to reinstate the policy. But Europa offered him another policy, which Mr E 
declined. 
So I think Europa could have provided better service following the cancellation, as its 
agreed. But I think it gave Mr E ample opportunities to provide the required information 
before it cancelled the policy, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And I think 
Mr E could have responded to its messages following the cancellation to ensure that his 
policy had been reinstated. 
I think Europas offer of £30 compensation and waiving its £55 cancellation charge was fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances. I think this takes into account the impact Europas 
level of service had on Mr E. I understand that Mr E was driving whilst uninsured for a 
month. But fortunately nothing untoward happened in this time. In any case, I can only 
consider actual rather than potential losses. So I dont require Europa to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman