DRN-3579833
The complaint
Ms S complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
Ms S has complained about unaffordable lending on a shopping credit account that she 
took out with Next. 
In June 2020, Ms S applied for a credit account with Next. She was given a credit limit of 
£600 which was not increased. 
Ms S complained to Next to say that the lending was unaffordable and that Next ought to 
have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her 
credit limits.
On 30 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. I set out an extract below:
I agree with our adjudicator that allowing Ms S an opening credit limit of £600 was not 
unreasonable. Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Ms S, Next says it carried 
out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us that 
Ms Ss account was monitored to check for issues that might have suggested Ms S was 
getting into financial difficulty. Its certainly possible that Nexts checks at the time of the 
account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. But even so, 
from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to think this 
initial credit limit was unaffordable.
Ive seen that Ms S had her account suspended in August 2021 after she had started to 
miss her monthly payments. As this may suggest Ms S was getting into financial difficulty, 
I need to consider whether the action Next took was fair. Ive also seen that the account 
was briefly suspended previously in December 2020. 
Next came back to us with some more information about payments Ms S had made to her 
account in May 2021, putting it back into credit. It also set out the steps it took in and 
around August 2021 when Ms S had started missing payments, writing to her with details 
of her arrears and also sending her a formal arrears notice. Both communications gave 
Ms S the opportunity to get in touch if she was struggling to make her payments. As she 
didnt do that the account was suspended, but it was not possible for Next to freeze it 
without first discussing her situation with her. Ms S then made a payment that brought the 
account up to date by September 2021. She then went on to continue maintaining her 
account without the need for a further suspension.  
Given that I dont consider it was unreasonable for Next to continue to charge Ms S 
interest after she missed a payment and her account was suspended, Im not inclined to 
think that Next acted unfairly. Although the interest Next charged Ms S after missing her 
monthly payment would have further added to her credit limit, as the account was still 
operating this is something that I would expect to happen. And given that that Ms S 
brought the account back up to date soon after, I dont think it was necessary for Next to 
take any further action.
Following receipt of my provisional decision, Ms S has confirmed that she has accepted 
my provisional findings. Next has also responded and says it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that the parties have accepted my provisional decision and theres no new evidence 
or information for me to consider, I see no reason to change my finding that Next did not 
act unfairly. 
I therefore dont think Ms S was caused any loss or material distress or inconvenience as 
a result of anything Next did after the credit was agreed with the initial credit limit, or later 
on when Ms S began missing the monthly payments on her account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman