DRN-3573361
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed her the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill list the relevant payments for ease and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision.
Date Merchant Payment type Amount
20 January 2021 Bitxtech Debit card £249.71
24 February 2021 Luno Money Limited Faster Payment £1
9 March 2021 Luno Money Limited Faster Payment £500
9 March 2021 Luno Money Limited Faster Payment £1,500
28 April 2021 Binance Debit card £4,770
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mrs M fell victim to a scam. She made payments of over 
£7,000 to three different cryptocurrency exchanges. But, as she authorised the 
payments, the starting position is that Mrs M would be liable for them too.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Lloyds failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, 
it might be fair to hold it liable.
In this case, Lloyds didnt identify any potential issues until after the first four 
payments. Ive thought carefully about this, and whether the payments would have 
and should have appeared significantly unusual or uncharacteristic.
Looking at the first payment, I note that it was relatively low. I also cant see, from 
considering external organisations that publish official warnings about merchants 
operating in the UK and abroad, that there were any warnings that Lloyds should 
have been aware of. So, I dont think Lloyds should have intervened here.
The second payment was to a legitimate company  Luno - and was only £1. So, I 
also dont think it reasonable to say Lloyds should have intervened here. The next 
two payments of £500 and £1,500 were made on the same day, to the same 
recipient  Luno  and were much higher than the first two. However, Mrs M had paid 
Luno around two weeks prior, and its not uncommon for people to make an initial low 
payment as a form of test before making a higher one later on. And, while higher, 
the total daily amount isnt significant enough that Id expect it to have flagged Lloyds 
fraud systems, especially when I consider that Mrs M had made recent payments for 
similar amounts. 
On 12 March 2021, Mrs M attempted to make a payment of £5,000 to Luno. But 
Lloyds fraud systems blocked this payment. Having listened to this call, Im satisfied 
the Lloyds representative made it clear the investment sounded like a scam and that 
Mrs M shouldnt continue with payments  and it was apparent that Mrs M had 
understood the warning she was being given.
On 17 March 2021, a further payment to Luno was blocked. Mrs M had received 
around £95 from Luno a few days prior and had been persuaded to make a further 
investment. Again, the Lloyds representative made it clear the investment sounded 
like a scam. During the course of the two phone calls, Mrs M was told to remove any 
software on her phone, that if she was pressured to make a payment it was likely a 
scam, and that she should cease making payments and try to recover her money 
from Luno.
On 28 April 2021, Mrs M made a payment to Binance of £4,770. Again, while a large 
sum of money, I dont think it was significant enough to flag Lloyds fraud alert 
systems. But, even if it had, I dont think Lloyds could have said any more to deter 
Mrs M from making payments. I say this because it had given her very clear warnings 
in two previous calls and she went on to make another payment a few weeks later; 
just using an alternative cryptocurrency exchange provider and an alternative method 
of payment. So I dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible here  Mrs M 
had been lured into a sophisticated scam and, on balance, I think she would have 
found a way to make the payment whether Lloyds had intervened or not. 
Ive also thought about whether, once Mrs M was aware shed been the victim of a 
scam, Lloyds did enough to recover the funds. Unfortunately, the funds paid to Luno 
had then been moved on to the fraudster, so Lloyds couldnt have recovered these.
Im also satisfied that a chargeback  a voluntary scheme run by the card provider - 
on the card payments would have been unsuccessful. I say this as Mrs M didnt have 
the required evidence for the first payment. And the last payment was made to 
Binance, a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, which provided the required services 
 the purchase of cryptocurrency  so the chargeback would have been unsuccessful 
if pursued. 
I appreciate how disappointed Mrs M is  and Im sorry that shes been the victim of a cruel 
scam. But I cant fairly say that Lloyds should be held liable for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman