DRN-3005100
The complaint
Miss W complains that Target Servicing Limited is reporting incorrect data about her loan to 
credit reference agencies. 
What happened
Target Servicing Limited (Target) is administering a debt owed by Miss W on behalf of a 
business Ill call C.
Miss W has been paying reduced payments to a loan for a number of years through a debt 
management plan. Since February 2020, Target has been reporting to the credit reference 
agencies that Miss W is in arrears on this debt. Miss Ws credit file shows entries of 6 which 
in effect means the debt is being classed as being six months in arrears.
Miss W complained to Target and said that an ombudsman at this service who investigated 
her previous complaint set out that their reporting wasnt correct or fair and that they should 
report the debt as being in an arrangement to pay. Target didnt agree and said that they 
were reporting the data correctly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Target hadnt made any errors in 
the way they had reported the debt to the credit reference agencies. 
Miss W didnt agree and referred to the decision from the ombudsman on her previous case, 
which she felt made clear that Target were not reporting the data correctly. Miss W said that 
this was having a serious impact on her financial situation, which included her bank reducing 
her overdraft limit. 
Miss W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will disappoint Miss W but I do not find that Target has made any errors or acted 
unfairly in how its reporting this debt to the credit reference agencies. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Miss W is making reduced payments against this debt and has being 
doing so for some time. I understand also that Miss W has been, and as far as I am aware 
still is, in a debt management plan. 
Ive looked at the screenshots that Miss W sent to us of her credit file. These show that 
Target has been reporting arrears on this debt since February 2020, and that the entries are 
showing as 6 for each month. The screenshots also show that Miss W is in a debt 
management plan. 
Target has an obligation to ensure that they are reporting data for Miss W that is fair, 
accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. As far as I can see, Target is reporting that 
Miss W is in a debt management plan and that she is in arrears on her loan. I cant say that 
this isnt an accurate representation of the status of this debt. Although the arrears are being 
continually recorded each month, this is because Miss W is making significantly reduced 
payments towards this debt and has been for some time. This will clearly have a negative 
impact on her credit file as she is not making the required contractual payments of the loan. 
I realise that the situation continuing as it has done will likely affect Miss Ws financial 
situation. I would remind Target that they, and C, should bear in mind that there comes a 
point when vastly reduced payments towards the debt wont be appropriate bearing in mind 
the impact on Miss Ws credit file and the length of time this will affect her. 
However, as I am only considering how Target have been reporting this debt, and because I 
find that no error has been made or that Target hasnt acted unfairly, I wont be upholding 
Miss Ws complaint. 
Finally, Ive considered Miss Ws comments about the final decision issued by one of our 
ombudsmen on her previous case. The ombudsmen directed that Target ensure Miss Ws 
credit reports reflect fairly any payments she has made since January 2020. He didnt direct 
Target to specifically report this information in a particular way, only that they do so fairly. I 
am satisfied for the reasons Ive given above that Target has been doing this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman