DRN-2978180
The complaint
On his sons behalf, Mr W1 complains that Equifax failed to put a password or Notice of 
Correction (NOC) on Mr Ws credit file to protect him against future borrowing. 
What happened
Mr W1 has explained that Mr W suffers from serious mental health concerns and has a 
history of getting into debt whilst vulnerable. In September 2017 Mr W1 sent an email to 
Equifax and asked it to place a restriction on Mr Ws credit file to stop businesses lending to 
him. No response was received. Equifax says it has no record of Mr W1s email. 
In September 2018 Mr W1 contacted Equifax again but didnt receive an acknowledgement. 
Mr W sent a letter to Equifax that gave Mr W1 authority to act on his behalf, but it was 
unsigned. In October 2018 Mr W1 and Equifax exchanged emails and information about how 
to register a NOC was provided. But no NOC was put in place. 
Mr W1 has explained that in 2019 Mr W successfully applied for borrowing whilst going 
through a particularly difficult time. 
Mr W1 has complained about Equifaxs actions and says it failed to protect Mr W whilst he 
was vulnerable. Equifax didnt agree said it wouldve needed identification and a Power of 
Attorney (POA) document or confirmation Mr W1 was acting on Mr Ws behalf. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator who initially upheld 
the complaint and asked Equifax to pay Mr W £100. But the investigator left the service and 
the complaint was passed to someone else. The new investigator reached a different view 
and didnt find Equifax had treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W1 asked to appeal on Mr Ws behalf. Mr W1 explained that it wasnt possible to obtain a 
POA and that Mr W had sent a letter of authority to Equifax in 2018. Mr W1 said Equifax 
should have a record of his September 2017 email where he asked for help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr W1 for the level of detail hes included in his submissions and responses 
to the investigators involved.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In my view, the crux of Mr Ws complaint revolves around whether Equifax acted fairly by 
failing to act on the instructions of Mr W1. Ive seen Mr W1s email from September 2017 
and I accept it was sent to Equifax as he says. Equifax says it hasnt retained a copy of the 
email in question, but I can see it was correctly addressed. Mr W1 says Equifaxs failure to 
retain the email is unreasonable. But I dont agree. I would expect Equifax to retain emails 
and correspondence sent by its customer or an authorised representative. But I wouldnt 
expect Equifax to retain emails from someone who wasnt authorised to access the credit file 
in question. When Mr W1 emailed Equifax in September 2017 he didnt have authority to act 
on Mr Ws behalf. In my view, its likely Equifax did receive the email but didnt take any 
action because it wasnt from Mr W and didnt include any authority that confirmed Mr W1 
was acting on his behalf. 
In much the same way, Equifax wouldnt have been able to respond to or act on the request 
in Mr W1s email. As the investigators said, to act on Mr Ws behalf, Mr W1 wouldve 
needed to either provide a POA document or some sort of authority directly from Mr W. I 
understand there were reasons why a POA wasnt an option, but I can only look at Equifaxs 
actions in this case. And, in September 2017 when Mr W1 emailed Equifax, it had nothing to 
show he was entitled to act on Mr Ws behalf. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W and Mr W1, but I 
dont agree Equifax made a mistake or treated him unfairly when it failed to respond or retain 
the email in question. 
Ive seen a copy of the third party authority letter Mr W sent Equifax in September 2018. As 
our investigator has said, the letter is unsigned and doesnt include supporting identification. 
Again, before Equifax could deal with Mr W1 on Mr Ws behalf, it needed to ensure he was 
authorised to do so. Mr W1 has raised concerns that the requirement for a signature and 
further information wasnt practical, but I have to balance that against Equifaxs obligation to 
ensure it was dealing with an authorised person. Im satisfied that whilst Mr W did write to 
Equifax in September 2018, the letter wasnt sufficient for it to deal with Mr W1 on his behalf. 
Ive looked at the emails Mr W1 exchanged with Equifax in the months that followed. I can 
see Mr W1 asked about adding a NOC. But I think its fair to say that the emails from both 
parties couldve been clearer. Equifax gave information about what wouldve been required 
to apply a NOC, including identification. I can see Mr W1 sent a copy of his passport, but no 
identification from Mr W was received by Equifax. 
I understand my decision will feel harsh to Mr W1 as I can see he was trying to act in the 
interests of Mr W when contacting Equifax. But, without clear authority to act on Mr Ws 
behalf, Equifax had no basis to follow Mr W1s instructions. And, as Ive said above, Mr Ws 
letter of authority in 2018 wasnt signed and didnt contain the required identification. Im very 
sorry to disappoint both Mr W and Mr W1, but I havent found Equifax made a mistake or 
acted unfairly in this case. As a result, Im not telling Equifax to take any further action. 
Should Mr W still wish to apply the NOC to his credit file, instructions on how to proceed can 
be found online or by contacting Equifax directly. Alternatively, our investigator can obtain up 
to date instruction from Equifax and forward them on. And if Mr W still wishes to provide 
legal authority to Mr W1, our investigator can also confirm the steps required with Equifax 
again and provide that information if needed.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman