DRN-1455606
The complaint
Mr W complains about action Lloyds Bank Plc has taken following the end of the term of his 
interest only mortgage. He believes Lloyds agreed to extend the term indefinitely in 2013 
and so should not be asking him to repay it now.
What happened
Mr W and his former partner took out an interest only mortgage with Lloyds many years ago. 
He is no longer in contact with his former partner and is currently paying the mortgage, and 
living in the property, himself. 
The term originally ended in 2013 and Mr W got in touch with Lloyds to discuss a term 
extension. Mr W says it was agreed that the term would be extended indefinitely and he 
signed documentation to confirm that in 2013. Following that, Lloyds didnt contact him for 
six years but continued to collect interest payments, which he thinks shows an agreement 
was in place  until, more recently, when Lloyds asked him to repay the balance and 
threatened legal action if he didnt.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds agreed to extend the term in 2013, and so she 
thought it was fair that it was asking him how he intended to repay the balance now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the notes of the conversations Mr W had with Lloyds in 2013. No call 
recordings survive  unsurprisingly, given the passage of time  but Ive no reason to believe 
the notes made at the time are inaccurate. In March 2013, the notes record that Mr M called 
Lloyds because the term was about to expire and he couldnt repay the mortgage. The 
adviser he spoke to offered to extend the term for five years (not indefinitely). 
Soon after, Lloyds sent a declaration of intent confirming that the property would be sold to 
repay the mortgage at the end of the term. Both Mr W and his former partner signed this 
document and returned it to Lloyds. 
Unfortunately, what the adviser told Mr W wasnt correct, according to Lloyds policy at the 
time, and the term couldnt be extended. Mr W was told this, and made a complaint about it 
in October 2013, believing that the agreement should be honoured. Lloyds wrote to him not 
upholding his complaint. I think Mr W was aware at this point that the original offer was an 
extension of five years (so to 2018), not an indefinite extension  and I think he was aware 
that it hadnt been implemented and the term hadnt in fact been extended at all.
Under our rules a complaint must be made to us within six months of when Lloyds 
responded to it. It responded to Mr Ws complaint that the term hadnt been extended in late 
2013, and again in 2014. Mr W hasnt complained to us before now about its decision not to 
extend the term in 2013 despite initially saying it would, and Im not aware of any exceptional circumstance that meant he couldnt do so. That means I cant now consider why Lloyds 
didnt extend the term or whether it made a fair decision at the time.
I can also see that Mr W made further complaints about the same issue in 2015 and in 2017 
 again, he complained that a five year extension had been agreed and so it wasnt fair that 
Lloyds end of term team was writing to him. For the same reasons, I cant consider these 
complaints now. 
Mr W first complained about this issue in 2013, and the fact that hes made essentially the 
same complaint, and Lloyds has given essentially the same response, several times since 
doesnt change the fact that the relevant time limit runs from the first letter. 
However, I can take the evidence of what happened at the time into consideration when 
deciding this complaint  which is that Lloyds extended the term indefinitely in 2013, and 
therefore shouldnt be seeking repayment now.
I dont think there is any evidence that Lloyds did agree to extend the term indefinitely in 
2013. The notes from the time dont support that. And the complaints Mr W made then  or 
since  dont show that he thought that was the case. His previous complaints were that 
Lloyds had agreed a five year extension and then gone back on its word. Thats not the 
same as saying that it agreed an indefinite extension. So I dont think Mr W believed an 
indefinite extension had been agreed when he had the discussion with Lloyds in 2013.
I dont think the declaration of intent is a binding agreement to extend the term indefinitely, or 
at all. Its a document that confirms Mr and Mrs W intended to sell the property at the end of 
the term. Although it doesnt say when the term ended, that doesnt mean that the term has 
no end  it just means the end wasnt recorded on the form. 
Although Mr W initially discussed a five year extension with Lloyds, its now six years since 
the term expired. I dont think there ever was an agreement to extend the term  indefinitely 
or otherwise  and I think Mr W understood that at the time. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable that Lloyds is asking Mr W to repay the 
mortgage. It will need to discuss with him his plans for doing so, bearing in mind that 
repossession is a last resort  and, equally, Mr W will now need to engage with Lloyds on 
the basis that the term has ended. He may have proposals for how the mortgage can be 
repaid, either immediately or in a reasonable time  and if so, Lloyds will need to give them 
fair consideration. But it wouldnt be appropriate for me to pre-empt the outcome of those 
discussions now  not least because Mr Ws former partner isnt party to this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Lloyds Bank PLC agreed an indefinite term 
extension, and so I dont think its acting unfairly in asking Mr W how he intends to repay the 
loan now. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman