DRN-4020906
The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC banking security has prevented her from being able 
to make payments to an online retailer. 
What happened
Ms H has made attempts to purchase goods from a retailer and so that her order can be 
processed Lloyds sends her one-time passcodes (OTPs). Ms H has then attempted to enter 
the OTP into the online order, but the transaction has not been accepted. 
Ms H thinks that the OTPs issued by Lloyds have already expired when she receives these 
on her mobile phone, and this has caused her payments to be declined. 
Lloyds responded to Ms Hs complaint about this and said the OTPs it provided were live 
and unexpired. 
Ms H was unhappy with Lloyds response and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said there was no evidence the 
OTPs had expired when received by Ms H. Ms H disagreed and requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H is understandably frustrated that her transactions to the online retailer have failed and 
thinks this is Lloyds fault. Ive looked at Lloyds business records for these transactions for 
evidence that the OTPs had expired when they reached Ms H. 
Lloyds records show that one of Ms Hs transactions to the online retailer failed in 
September 2022 and on four occasions in October 2022. All of the transactions were 
unsuccessful due to them being timed out. Lloyds records show; customer has not 
completed authentication in time. 
Lloyds records include time and date stamped logs for the issue of OTPs. I have seen that 
Lloyds has issued the OTPs correctly and in a timely manner. Lloyds arrangements set a 
time limit of five minutes for the use of an OTP from delivery. If the OTP isnt used it 
becomes invalid and the transaction wont succeed. 
Having reviewed Lloyds OTP log record, Ive seen other transactions to the online retailer 
and others that were successfully processed when OTPs were issued. I agree with the 
investigator that this suggests there is no inherent fault with Lloyds processing and issuing 
of OTPs.
From what I have seen, Lloyds sent the OTPs to Ms H in time for the transactions to be 
carried out in line with its processes, so I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for any delays in 
Ms H receiving these codes.
I was sorry to learn about the difficulty Ms H has faced in completing the online transactions 
in question. However, as I havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds has provided 
expired OTPs or caused delays with Ms Hs transactions, I cant uphold this complaint. I 
think it might help if Lloyds re-looked to see if it is possible for it to provide more assistance 
to Ms H in completing online transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman