DRN-2794540
The complaint
Miss B complains about the standard of service she received on a follow up repair from DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) under her home emergency policy.
DAS uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf, so whenever I refer to DAS in this 
decision, it should be read as including those agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss B contacted DAS as she had experienced a leak at her home. It sent an engineer who 
disconnected some electrics. After the substantive work had been completed at her home, 
Miss B contacted DAS to see if it could send the same engineer back to reinstate the 
electrics. 
Miss B made several calls to DAS for updates. It later became clear that her preferred 
contractor was no longer available. Also, she found it difficult to secure an advanced 
appointment as she required a specific date. But an appointment was subsequently made, 
and work was carried out that reinstated Miss Bs electrics. 
Miss B raised a complaint to DAS as there had been a delay of around 12 days and she had 
to make several calls to try and secure an appointment. Miss B also complained that various 
call handlers had either given her contradictory information or failed to contact her when they 
said they would.
In its final response, DAS said that as it was an emergency service it didnt normally 
accommodate advanced appointments as it would require the policy holder to call nearer the 
time. It also noted that an appointment had been arranged and so it felt there was nothing 
further it could do. 
Miss B wasnt happy about this outcome as it failed to address the time it took for her to 
secure an appointment and the numerous phone calls that she had to make, all of which 
were very distressing for her. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that although 
there had been some confusion in trying to secure an advanced appointment, DAS did try to 
accommodate Miss Bs requested date. He also thought that although there were some 
service issues the impact of those didnt warrant an award for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that the complaint related to the 
issue of her having had to make 15 calls over a 12-day period. In which she was told by 
three different agents that an engineer had been booked when it wasnt the case, as DAS 
had no longer used that contractor. Also, no one at DAS had told her or booked a substitute 
engineer, until Miss B contacted DAS to chase the appointment. This left her without 
electrics for an extended period. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Miss B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have listened to the call recordings provided, as Miss Bs main complaint is that she had to 
make around 15 calls over a 12-day period in order to secure a booking. And was without 
some electricity for an extended period. 
Miss B said that she had been calling DAS from 28 August 2020 to make an engineer 
booking. But it wasnt until 4 September 2020 that she was informed that there was no 
possibility of having her preferred engineer attend, as they were no longer on DAS system. 
Miss B stressed that she needed an appointment on 5 October 2020, which would have 
been obtaining a booking of around a month in advance. DAS attempted to accommodate 
Miss Bs requested date and told her that she would receive a confirmation text or call. Miss 
B didnt receive the confirmation as promised.  
The next call took place about one hour later and was between Miss Bs broker and DAS. 
Miss B had complained to her broker about her difficulty in securing a booking. But having 
listened to the call, the call handler confirms that Miss B had been given information 
regarding the new engineer, as well as confirmation of 5 October 2020 of the appointment. 
Miss Bs broker was informed that Miss B would receive a text or phone call to confirm. But 
again, nothing was received.
 
On 7 September the call handler informed Miss B that advanced appointments couldnt be 
made as DAS was an emergency service. The call handler explained that Miss B would 
have to call back five days before the date she wanted the engineer to attend. Miss B was 
unhappy by this further new information and raised a complaint. She was told that the 
complaints department would be in touch. And from the evidence, DAS complaints 
department did make attempts to contact Miss B but were unsuccessful and left voice 
messages on her phone.
Another call was made on 7 September from Miss Bs broker. He requested an earlier date 
of 28 September on Miss Bs instructions. Seemingly, this date was confirmed as this was 
the date that the engineer ultimately attended to complete the repair. 
From the evidence Ive heard, its clear that Miss B didnt receive texts or call confirmation of 
the booking, when promised. But ultimately, Miss B was able to secure a date, which was an 
advanced booking, something DAS usually wouldnt be able to accommodate, as it has 
confirmed that it is an emergency service. Whilst I accept there were some minor service 
issues, I dont think they were avoidable, given the circumstances.
Miss B also complains that she was without electricity for an extended period. I have looked 
at the impact of this on Miss B.  
Miss B said that it was quite distressing being without some electricity for an extended period 
and I understand her frustration at this. But I have to balance this with what happened. Miss 
B wanted to book a date further in the future than eventually happened. And I think this 
would suggest that the lack of electricity wasnt particularly inconvenient.  Ultimately, DAS 
carried out the repairs before Miss Bs originally requested date of 5 October. So, I think on 
balance, the level of impact was reduced.Overall, whilst I think there were some minor service issues, I think that DAS attempted to 
accommodate Miss Bs requests given the service constraints. And I dont think that DAS 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking DAS to do 
anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman