DRN-3015584
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1993. 
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint - so it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide offered fixed rate mortgage products in 1993 that could only be taken with PPI. 
Nationwide says Mr M took one of these mortgages. Mr M hasnt said anything to make me 
think he didnt. Hes said he wasnt informed there was a preferential rate on the mortgage, 
but he hasnt suggested that he didnt take a mortgage like this or that he didnt take the PPI. 
Hes complaining that the PPI was mis-sold.
Nationwide shouldve made clear to Mr M that PPI was a condition of the mortgage it was 
offering him  so he could take this into account and decide whether to take the mortgage or 
not. Mr M says he was unaware hed taken PPI and wasnt told it as a condition of his 
mortgage  so he believes he was forced into the cover without his knowledge.
Nationwide says the mortgage Mr M took the PPI with ended in 1996. Mr M has said nothing 
to suggest anything different. Incidentally, Nationwide says Mr Ms PPI policy ended at that 
time too  in which case the PPI policy ran for around three years in total.
Mr M has pointed out there isnt any paperwork from the time of the sale to show the PPI 
was discussed when he took the mortgage. That is so. But there also isnt any paperwork 
from the time of the sale to show that the PPI wasnt discussed. No sales paperwork from 
this sale is held by Nationwide and Mr M hasnt provided any either.
Of course, there will have been mortgage paperwork - but I dont find it surprising Nationwide 
no longer has this, given how long ago the mortgage ended. The absence of papers doesnt 
make me think Nationwide started the mortgage without Mr Ms knowledge or agreement  
and I dont think it shows that its more likely than not that the PPI was started like that either.
Given how long ago the mortgage sale was, it wouldnt be surprising if Mr M didnt recall all 
the details now. So what he recalls, and his belief that he wasnt told about the PPI, isnt 
enough on its own to make me think Nationwide didnt make him aware of the PPI, along 
with other details of the mortgage arrangement, when he took it in 1993  and I havent 
anything else to make me think that Nationwide didnt do this. 
For example, Im not aware of anything to suggest that Nationwide wouldnt usually have 
given a consumer like Mr M information about the PPI associated with a mortgage product 
like this when offering it to the consumer at that time.
In deciding whether to take the mortgage product he took, Mr M had to weigh up the cost, 
including the compulsory PPI cost, against the benefits. The benefits were whatever benefit 
he felt he might get from the mortgage product itself - for example arising from the fixed rate 
- and what benefit, if any, he felt the PPI had for him.
Mr M says he had other ways to cover his mortgage if need be  and he says he has never 
taken PPI with anything else. But even if thats right, I dont think it shows that Mr M didnt 
agree to PPI here as part of the mortgage arrangement he selected and agreed to at the 
time. The alternative was to not take that particular mortgage, so the benefit to him of the 
mortgage mightve been enough to make the cost of the PPI worthwhile, even if from Mr Ms 
point of view his need for the PPI benefit itself was negligible. For example, a fixed rate 
might give monthly savings or the benefit of knowing what the monthly mortgage payments 
would be. The PPI cost might have been worthwhile in that context. I say this just by way of 
example to illustrate that Mr M having other ways to cover his mortgage payments doesnt in 
itself make me think Nationwide cant have told him about the PPI on this mortgage product.
Id add that even though he had other ways to cover himself, the PPI benefit wouldve still 
been paid if he made a successful claim, so he wouldve received extra money if he were to 
have become unable to work due to unemployment or disability. So to that extent the PPI 
offered a value, whether or not it was extra money that Mr M felt he would need at that time.
Taking everything into account - and there isnt much to go on in terms of papers from the 
time, as Ive discussed above - what I have doesnt persuade me Nationwide didnt make 
Mr M aware he was taking the PPI when he took it as one of the conditions of his mortgage. 
I think it more likely that the paperwork at the time did make reference to this and that Mr M 
agreed to the PPI, like he agreed to mortgage. 
I dont know what information Mr M was given about the PPI, but I think it unlikely he would 
have agreed to a particular mortgage arrangement without an idea of what it would cost. 
Also I dont think knowing more about the policys disability exclusions wouldve changed his 
decision  because he didnt any health issues the policy mightve excluded. Also Mr M 
wasnt affected by unemployment exclusions affecting temporary or short-term employment - 
he was a permanent employee and had been with his employer some years. So I dont think 
more information about any of this wouldve changed Mr Ms view of the value of the PPI or 
changed the outcome in terms of the mortgage he decided to take.
Mr M was entitled to work sick pay. From what hes told us, this pay wouldve halved after six 
months. He also had savings and investments to fall back on. The PPI benefit wouldve paid 
out for up to two years and helped make it less likely hed have to fall back on his savings or 
cash in investments if disability or unemployment stopped him working for an extended time. 
But, as Ive discussed above, ultimately it was for Mr M to decide what value the PPI cover 
had for him in light of his existing cover - Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI or offer 
advice as part of its sale. Mr Ms position is he wouldve placed very little value on the cover 
at the time. What I have doesnt persuade me more information about the PPI wouldve 
made much difference to whatever value he placed on the cover at the time. So I dont think 
more information about this wouldve changed the decision he made about his mortgage.I appreciate Mr Ms position is he made his decision without knowing he was getting PPI at 
all, but Ive explained above that what I have doesnt persuade me that things happened that 
way. I proceed on the basis Mr M was likely aware of the cover and took the value of it and 
the cost of it into account when assessing the value of the other costs and benefits of his 
mortgage choice. Taking everything into account, I dont think more information about the 
PPI wouldve changed the decision he made to take the mortgage, and with it the PPI.
Having carefully considered all Mr M has told us, Im not persuaded Nationwide just included 
the PPI on his mortgage without telling him and getting his agreement first. So I dont uphold 
Mr Ms complaint on that basis  and having considered everything else hes told us, Ive not 
found any other reason uphold the complaint or award a refund of the PPI. So I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr M for his courtesy and for the prompt responses hes given us throughout 
our consideration of his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman