DRN-3306649
The complaint
Mrs W (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete proper affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility or at each new instance of borrowing. 
What happened
Mrs W approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in May 2015. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mrs W was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mrs W was initially given a facility with a £250 credit limit in May 2015. Her limit was 
increased on a further five occasions with her final credit limit increasing to £810 in 
August 2019. SNC then decreased Mrs Ws limit to £630 in November 2019. SNC then 
increased the limit on a further four occasions taking the credit limit back up to £730 by 
November 2020.  
Mrs W had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of November 2021 an outstanding balance remained of £915.82.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ws complaint. Before the facility was approved SNC 
had access to 90 days of read only bank statements. In the adjudicators view, the 
information SNC gathered about Mrs Ws circumstances suggested she would be able to 
afford the repayments she was committed to making. So, she didnt uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint about the granting of the facility. 
However, the adjudicator explained SNC had an obligation to monitor Mrs Ws use of the 
facility. And she thought, from 3 July 2017 SNC ought to have suspended the facility and 
prevented Mrs W from borrowing further. 
She said this because of the way Mrs W had used the facility and the fact that her 
disposable income  as calculated by SNC, was now the same as her credit limit. In her 
view, the facility was no longer affordable. 
Mrs Ws representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and the 
ombudsman referral letter, but no further comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
it hasnt received proper authorisation from Mrs W to allow her representative to deal 
with the case;
SNC says that no valid complaint has ever been made which is why no final 
response has been issued; 
Although Mrs Ws representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to;
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind and
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns in the ombudsman referral letter. She 
explained SNC had been given more than eight weeks to investigate Mrs Ws complaint 
following the initial complaint made by her representative, and then from when we informed 
SNC that the complaint would be taken on by the Financial Ombudsman. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mrs W 
complained through her representative to SNC in October 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs W hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 19 March 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 31 
March 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. It is now nearly a year 
later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the firm nonetheless 
disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is clearly wrong in my 
opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Mrs Ws complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mrs W wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mrs W this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintained read-only access 
to their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to allow it 
to carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mrs Ws expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be 
repaid. Therefore, when Mrs Ws facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself 
that Mrs W would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mrs Ws income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mrs Ws income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mrs W could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search, before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompted it to have 
carried out further checks into Mrs Ws situation before the facility was approved. 
It would appear Mrs W seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong to 
have initially approved her running credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont 
think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility  SNC wouldve thought based on 
the review of Mrs Ws bank statements that shed be able to afford to repay her facility within 
a reasonable period of time. 
So, this decision will instead focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mrs Ws facility 
whilst she held it and whether there was a point at which SNC shouldve halted any further 
drawdowns on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, that it 
was unfair for it to have allowed Mrs W to continue drawing down on the facility after 3 July 
2017.  This is because I think the way she was using the account indicated she wasnt using 
it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the FCA through 
CONC. I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in CONC and how it applies to this 
case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficultiesAnd CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mrs Ws use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in or having 
financial difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC had a good indication of Mrs Ws actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. 
And by 3 July 2017 I think SNC had seen enough to have realised that Mrs Ws repayment 
of the facility was now unsustainable. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mrs W to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mrs W returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mrs W was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mrs W would 
normally repay her facility in full, and then within a day or so, shed start drawing funds down 
back up to her available credit limit. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mrs Ws 
circumstances along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 3 July, it 
was clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full 
outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Mrs W to once again borrow funds 
taking her back up to her credit limit was detrimental to her financial situation. 
This is important, because it was likely, given Mrs W repayment history that the facility would 
be repaid in full rather than repaying it over a reasonable period of time. This is important 
because at this time, SNC has calculated Mrs Ws disposable income as being around £740 
with a credit limit of £760. So, based on SNCs own calculations (and taking into account 
how the facility was used) Mrs W didnt have enough disposable income repay the facility in 
full. So, I dont think it was reasonable of SNC to continue to believe that the facility would be 
repaid over a reasonable period of time. 
In addition, in the months leading up to July 2017 Mrs W is regularly having direct debit 
payments returned to her account, although some of the payments are for relativity small 
sums for example of around £10. The fact these payments were returned, and this seems to 
happen each month. This indicates to me that Mrs W didnt have sufficient sums each month 
to meet her obligations, which as the FCA has said in CONC is an indicator of having 
financial difficulties.  
So, by 3 July 2017 Mrs W had demonstrated that she wasnt using the facility as SNC had 
intended, she was quickly drawing down and repaying the facility in full in the same month, 
which wasnt sustainable. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mrs W circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 3 July 2017, it was clear 
that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing Mrs W to once again borrow the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation. But instead of offering Mrs W help, SNC allowed her to carry on drawing down. This meant 
that it would default to taking even larger payments from Mrs Ws account and therefore 
leaving a greater hole in her finances.
Im therefore upholding Mrs Ws complaint from 3 July 2017.
 
Putting things right
If the debt has since been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back 
and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back, 
then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 3 July 2017.
B) Treat all payments Mrs W has made towards her account since 3 July 2017 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mrs W wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs W and Id remind SNC of its obligation 
to treat Mrs W fairly and with forbearance. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs Ws credit 
file from 3 July 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman