DRN-2433687
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) allowed her husband to 
withdraw funds from her sons savings account despite holding instructions for him to be 
removed from the account. 
What happened
Mrs K visited a local branch of Nationwide to remove her husbands name from her sons 
savings account following a marital breakdown. She was given forms to complete which she 
completed, alongside her husband, and handed these backs to the branch. Over a year later 
Mrs K noticed that her husband had taken £500 from her sons savings account so she 
contacted the branch to ask why and was told her husband was still named on the account. 
On further investigation Nationwide told Mrs K that they had sent her a letter asking for more 
information to complete the original request but as they hadnt heard back from her the 
matter had been closed. 
Nationwide says that while Mrs K had handed in the forms these hadnt been properly 
verified.  In view of this, they wrote to her shortly after she had originally handed in the 
forms, to ask for her to contact them but as nothing more was heard from Mrs K the case 
was closed. As a result, Mr K was still party to the sons account and the withdrawal of the 
monies was a legitimate transaction. Nationwide did agree that Mrs K was given poor 
service when the forms were originally handed in and offered £150 in compensation.
Mrs K declined this offer and says she never received the letter and referred the matter to 
this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint . He 
felt that Nationwide had carried out their process correctly and had seen the letter sent to 
Mrs K .The investigator says that the offer of £150 from Nationwide was fair given the 
circumstances.
Mrs K was unhappy with the response and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to that of the investigator and I will explain 
how I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it must have been upsetting for Mrs K to see that funds had been 
taken from her sons account by her husband when she believed that instructions had been 
accepted by Nationwide to remove him from the account. 
What I have focussed on here is whether Nationwide have acted correctly when they 
received instructions to remove Mrs Ks husband from the sons savings account. 
What happened here was in March 2018 Mrs K visited her Nationwide branch to arrange for 
her husband to be removed from their joint current account and their sons savings account, 
following a marital breakdown. During the meeting with a member of staff the appropriate 
forms were given to Mrs K for completion by both parties to be returned to the branch. Mrs K 
had the forms signed and returned these to the branch, as asked, believing this would be 
actioned. In October the following year Mr K withdrew £500 from their sons savings account, 
leading to Mrs Ks complaint. 
What actually happened was Nationwide removed the husbands name from the joint current 
account but not the joint savings account in their sons name, as savings accounts, 
according to Nationwide, require verification. The verification should have been actioned by 
the branch staff when Mrs K handed in the forms. Nationwide have accepted this was an 
error by the branch and it could and should have been verified by them at that time. 
Nationwide says because of this error, the following week they sent a letter to both Mr and  
Mrs K  requesting they contact them regarding the account removal,  but as they didnt hear 
back from either party, they closed their file on the matter. What Nationwide seem to be 
saying is although they have admitted they should have taken Mrs Ks husband off the joint 
savings account, because they failed to carry out the verification process at the branch, the 
follow up letters sent out were sufficient to have met their obligations here. In other words, as 
they heard nothing back from either party, they did nothing wrong when closing their file on 
the matter.  
While I understand letters appear to have been sent to both parties, and on balance I accept 
these were sent,  I have no way of confirming that these were received by Mrs K or her 
husband but given how important is was to her at the time it seems unlikely Mrs K would 
have ignored such a letter.
Even so, what is more important here in my mind, is that Nationwide were aware of Mrs Ks 
marital issues. They agreed to remove her husbands name from the joint current account 
when the forms were handed in but failed to do this for their sons savings account because 
of their internal process, which wasnt explained to Mrs K. In addition, and by their own 
admission, when Mrs K handed in the signed forms the branch staff failed to carry out the 
verification needed and as a result Mrs K left the branch believing her husband had been 
removed from the accounts. I am satisfied this is a reasonable assumption for her to have 
made  after all this was actioned for Mrs K on the joint current account, so it follows,  it 
would be reasonable for her to expect the same of the joint savings account for their son.  
Its worth mentioning Nationwide says they wouldnt ordinarily place a hold on a bank 
account when a marital breakdown happens as it can be difficult to get all parties to correct 
this at a later date. I say this because during our investigation we questioned if  this was an 
option available to Nationwide as a temporary measure until the verification was completed. 
So, while I understand Nationwides point, this was a childs savings account with both 
parents in agreement, so while they may not agree,  this is something they could have 
considered. 
I am satisfied ,on balance that Nationwide could have done more here to have protected the 
sons savings account knowing that they held a signed authority to remove Mr K from the 
account and how important this was. As an example, a phone call from Nationwide may 
have been more effective in the circumstances, given the mistake was of their making and 
not Mrs Ks. 
I understand that Mrs K went back to the branch after the withdrawal of the £500 and was 
asked to complete new forms and this was actioned without any further verification or 
contact needed from Mrs K. I am satisfied this is what should have happened on the first occasion back in March 2018.
While I know Nationwide will be disappointed with my decision here, I uphold the complaint 
by Mrs K.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I gave both Mrs K and Nationwide until 28 November 2020 to accept or reject my 
provisional decision. While Mrs K has accepted my provisional decision, Nationwide raised 
the question of whether Mrs Ks husband was in a position to return the funds he had 
withdrawn from their sons savings account. I am satisfied from the correspondence we have 
seen; Mrs Ks husband is not in a financial position to do this. Even if he was, it doesnt 
detract from the provisional decision I made, that Nationwide could have done more to have 
stopped the withdrawal by Mrs Ks husband for the reasons I have already explained. If 
Nationwide wish to pursue this, then thats a matter for them to decide.
Following this I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same.   
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund the £500 taken from Mrs Ks sons savings 
account plus interest at the appropriate interest rate since the funds were withdrawn. In 
addition to pay the £150 already offered for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund 
the £500 taken from Mrs Ks sons savings account plus interest at the appropriate interest 
rate since the funds were withdrawn. In addition to pay the £150 already offered for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman