DRN-4211361
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Ms B has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. 
In autumn 2022, she damaged her car by colliding with a skip. Ms B made a claim for 
damage to the chassis of her vehicle to be repaired. She says the car remained 
driveable during this time. 
In January 2023, Ms B contacted Admirals approved repairer - when the engine 
management light lit up on her cars dashboard  as she was concerned as to 
whether she could continue to drive her car. 
Ms B says Admirals repairer advised the car could be driven. Later that day, her car 
broke down. Ms B considers any investigation and/or repairs her car may require to 
be Admirals responsibility because she doesnt think it would have broken down but 
for Admirals advice that it was safe to drive with the engine management light on.
Admiral disagreed but as a gesture of goodwill referred Ms Bs car for a diagnostic 
check - the results of which were inconclusive. 
Admiral concluded the issue causing the engine management light to illuminate 
wasnt connected to the initial incident involving the skip and so, as the cause of the 
light coming on wasnt due to an insured peril, said it wouldnt cover a claim about it. 
Unhappy, Ms B complained to this Service. An Investigator considered it and said 
Admirals decision was reasonable because there wasnt sufficient evidence to show 
its advice had caused Ms Bs car to break down, or that it was connected to the 
incident with the skip. 
Ms B disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has confirmed her main concern is she considers Admiral to be responsible for 
the breakdown of her vehicle and any repairs in connection with this as she says it 
incorrectly advised her car was safe to drive. And its this my decision will focus on. 
Ms Bs policy will cover her for certain insured perils, but Admiral doesnt consider the 
breakdown of Ms Bs vehicle to be connected to an insured peril. So, whats key here 
is whether the breakdown of Ms Bs car was caused by the original incident (involving 
the skip) and/or the advice she received from Admirals repairer that her car was safe 
to drive with the engine management light on.
As our Investigator explained, the engine management light on Ms Bs car came on 
before she was told it was safe to drive her car, so I dont consider it reasonable to 
conclude  without evidence  that Admiral is responsible for the breakdown of her 
vehicle, as there was seemingly already a problem with it.
Ive not been provided with expert evidence  such as a mechanics report  which 
shows driving the vehicle after the light came on caused the car to breakdown. Whilst 
I appreciate Ms B has said an engineer from the manufacturers garage has said it 
wouldnt advise a customer to drive a vehicle when the engine management light is 
illuminated, this isnt persuasive evidence that driving the car when the light was on 
caused the breakdown of it.   
I must also keep in mind that Admiral referred Ms Bs car for a diagnostic check to 
see what caused the problem, but it came back as inconclusive. So, this doesnt 
support Ms Bs stance that Admiral is at fault. 
So, in line with what our Investigator suggested, Ms B could arrange for an expert 
report to be carried out to determine the cause of the damage / vehicle breakdown. If 
this was caused by the original incident or Admirals advice, then I would expect 
Admiral to consider this when reviewing the claim.  
But as it stands, Ive not seen anything to persuade me the damage and subsequent 
breakdown of Ms Bs car was caused by the initial incident with the skip or was due 
to Admirals advice, and so, I dont consider it reasonable to ask Admiral to cover it. 
Compensation
Admiral has issued two final response letters addressing numerous concerns about 
its handling of Ms Bs claim and it has paid compensation to recognise the difficulties 
shes experienced. I dont consider it necessary to detail all the problems shes faced 
but taking a holistic view of things, Im satisfied the amount Admiral has paid overall 
is fair in the circumstances and so, I wont be asking it to increase this. 
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties Ms B has experienced had repercussions beyond 
her - owing to her caring responsibilities - as our Investigator explained, Im only able 
to direct Admiral to pay compensation for any detriment shes experienced, not third 
parties. But I have kept her particular circumstances in mind when deciding whether 
Admiral has paid enough compensation  which I am satisfied it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman