DRN-2161917
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, applied a default 
to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs D took out a loan with Likely Loans in May 2017. In August 2019 the direct debit set up 
to make the monthly loan repayment was returned unpaid. Likely Loans attempted to contact 
Mrs D but were unable to do so. 
The loan repayment for September 2019 was also returned unpaid. Likely Loans attempted 
to contact Mrs D but again were unable to do so. 
Around this time Mrs D made an ad-hoc payment of £10 toward the loan. 
A third consecutive loan payment was returned unpaid in October 2019. Likely Loans issued 
a default notice to Mrs D shortly after the October payment was missed. The default notice 
gave Mrs D three weeks to pay the outstanding arrears in full or contact Likely Loans and 
arrange a suitable repayment plan.
The loan payments from November 2019 onwards were paid by direct debit as scheduled. 
However, the outstanding arrears were not paid, so Likely Loans recorded a default against 
Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Likely Loans. Mrs D quoted guidance 
from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) which suggests that it is only appropriate 
for a company to record a default against a customer when that customer is at least three 
months in arrears. 
Mrs D noted that, because she had made the £10 ad-hoc payment, the arrears on the loan 
were not equal to three combined monthly payment amounts but were £10 below it. Because 
of this, Mrs D felt that Likely Loans had applied the default against her credit file 
inappropriately. 
Likely Loans looked into Mrs Ds complaint. They didnt feel that they had acted 
inappropriately in recording the default and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Likely Loans response and so she referred the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at this case, but they didnt feel that Likely Loans 
had acted inappropriately either, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D 
remained unhappy and so the matter was escalated to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware of the ICO guidance that Mrs D refers to in her complaint, and I understand that 
Mrs D feels that Likely Loans have not followed established rules. Mrs D says that because 
Likely Loans recorded a default against her credit file when the total amount of her arrears 
was less than the cumulative monetary total of three months repayment instalments.
In coming to my decision here, Ive taken account of what the relevant rules and guidance 
says. Its also worth noting that in reaching my decision, Im not bound by those rules and 
guidance in deciding whats fair here. Mrs D is right when she says that some of the relevant 
guidance here says that a business can default an account when a customer is three months 
in arrears. But the guidance from the ICO explains that this is just a general guide.
So, while we expect businesses to consider that guidance, there will be instances when it is 
appropriate for a business to record a default against a customer when the outstanding 
arrears are less than the monetary amount of three months combined repayments. And I 
think that thats the case here.
I say this because, whilst it is true that Mrs D wasnt technically three months in arrears 
when considered in monetary terms, she had missed three scheduled loan repayments. In 
any event, the circumstances here would suggest that Mrs D wasnt able to make her 
contractual payment for a number of months and on that basis, I think it was fair that Likely 
Loans took the further action they did. 
Its also notable that the £10 payment which Mrs D did make is far less than the scheduled 
loan repayment amount - which was approximately £220 - and that Mrs D did not contact 
Likely Loans to gain approval from them for that £10 payment, despite repeated attempts by 
Likely Loans to contact her. Because of this, I think its fair to not consider the £10 payment 
that Mrs D made as being equivalent to a scheduled repayment or an agreed partial 
repayment. To Likely Loans, it wouldve looked like all that Mrs D could afford for three 
months was £10  and that suggests that she wasnt able to make anywhere near her 
contractual payments for this period of time.
If a business were considering recording a default against a customer, what wed expect is 
that the business be clear in communicating to the customer that the outstanding arrears 
meant that such an action was being considered. I think that Likely Loans were clear about 
this fact, and I note that numerous letters, emails, and SMS text messages were sent to Mrs 
D to alert her of the outstanding arrears and to the potential consequences of non-payment, 
to which Mrs D did not reply.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Likely Loans have acted unfairly or inappropriately 
here. Three scheduled loan payments were missed, and the ad-hoc payment which Mrs D 
did make was not arranged with Likely Loans or authorised by them and was in no way 
equivalent to a standard loan repayment.
Likely Loans attempted to contact Mrs D by various channels and their communication about 
the potential consequences of the arrears remaining unpaid were made clear. Because of 
this, I dont feel that it was unfair or inappropriate for Likely Loans to record the default 
against Mrs Ds credit file as they did.
I note that Mrs D was also concerned that there was an instance leading up to the default 
being recorded that her credit file was reported inaccurately by Likely Loans. Specifically, 
that in the month before the default was recorded her credit file shows that she was three 
months in arrears, when previous months had been recorded as being two months in 
arrears. Our investigator contacted Likely Loans about this matter, who advised that they continued 
to report the account as being two months in arrears up until the point they reported the 
default, and that they at no time reported the account as being three months in arrears. 
Likely Loans suggested that this may be a reporting error made by the credit reference 
agency.
So, I think that Likely Loans were correct to report the loan as being two months in arrears 
on Mrs Ds credit file. This is because the amount of arrears was technically less than three 
months of cumulative loan payments. Information like this lacks the flexibility to describe the 
situation with the arrears in more detail, and so I think it was good practice for Likely Loans 
to report that Mrs D was two months in arrears, and not three. But I must also confirm that I 
dont think that this demonstrates that Mrs D should have been considered as only being two 
months in arrears in the wider circumstances here, for the reasons I have already explained 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman