DRN-2623497
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with 
her fraud claim. 
What happened
Ms C says that her card was used fraudulently in 2010 and she reported this to Barclays, 
paid off the genuine balance and never heard anything else. In May 2019 she was contacted 
by a third party that had bought the debt from Barclays. She made a fraud claim to Barclays.
In August 2020 it issued a final response to Ms C saying that it wouldnt be able to consider 
a claim of fraud due to the time that had passed. But it then clarified to this service that when 
it wrote the letter it had already decided to buy the debt back and write this off as fraudulent. 
It had also ensured that Ms Cs credit record was clear of any related adverse information.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything more. Ms C said that she had 
missed out on a PPI claim due to what happened as she had contacted a third party to help 
her but had never heard back. But Ms C didnt have any further evidence about this, and it 
would be something to take up with that third party.
The debt collection activity hadnt happened for nine years and there had only been a period 
of a year while Ms C was told she was responsible for the borrowing. Our investigator didnt 
think that the distress caused was the fault of Barclays. And due to the passage of time it 
wouldnt have been possible for this service to investigate the transactions and say whether 
these were fraudulent. Barclays could have held Ms C responsible for the payments and so 
she couldnt assess that compensation should be due. But she thought that Barclays had 
done enough to put Ms C back in the position she ought to have been in.
Ms C didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She was caused anxiety and 
stress trying to resolve this. Each time she had contacted Barclays it had said it would write 
to her and she didnt receive anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear from Ms C that she had been the victim of fraud.  A person carrying out 
such a fraud would be responsible for doubtless distress and inconvenience for Ms C and 
the need for her to deal with this. She knew about these events in 2010 and as she says 
never heard from Barclays then about what had happened or received a new card on her 
account. She did nothing further herself and I dont see its likely she would have been told 
her claim of fraud was accepted based on the actions Barclays took in selling the debt. 
There is no record Ive seen of her complaining at this time. And she heard nothing more 
until she was contacted by the different financial business in May 2019. 
Here I am looking at a complaint against Barclays not the business that bought the debt. And 
not at what that business did in the period after Ms C had alerted it she wasnt responsible 
for the debt and before Barclays decided to buy back the debt and write it off. Barclays told 
Ms C in June 2020 that it wasnt going to accept a claim of fraud but clearly after Ms C 
complained it changed its position. It didnt explain that in the final response and said it had 
limited information. Thats the position regarding information I am in too and there is nothing 
more from Barclays or Ms C that would have helped to support whether there was a fraud 
given the time that has passed. 
The debt has been written off and any adverse information about Ms C removed. So, in that 
sense she is in the position that she wanted to be in  that is she isnt responsible for these 
disputed transactions. I agree with our investigator that Ms C hasnt demonstrated a financial 
loss caused by Barclays including through a missed claim for PPI she refers to. I am unable 
to establish a link to this complaint. And I wont be making any award for complaint handling 
which isnt a separate regulated activity. 
I am applying my own judgement about what is reasonable here. On balance I dont consider 
any award of compensation is warranted given the actions Barclays has already taken and 
given the limited information available to support it fairly needing to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman