DRN-4329059
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have recorded incorrect information on his 
policy and with the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). He says this led to his policy 
not being renewed and that he has found it difficult and costly to find cover elsewhere.
What happened
Mr G says UKIs contractors carried out work to a blocked pipe and that while they were on 
site they said they could also fix a leak in the manhole. He understood this to be covered 
under his home emergency policy, not the main household insurance policy. Mr G would like 
the claim record to be removed because he says he didnt authorise it.
Mr G also said he had to pay another company to make good the leak because the repair by 
UKIs contractor was inadequate. He would like to be reimbursed for the cost of that.
UKI looked into the matter and said they were satisfied their contractor had completed the 
work to a satisfactory standard and at a reasonable cost. But they felt Mr Gs complaint 
ought to have been handled quicker than it was, so they paid him £300 compensation for 
that.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he asked our service for help.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They found that Mr G had asked us for help in 
relation to these issues before. He had been provided with a final decision by another of our 
ombudsmen, so the investigator felt there was no reason for it to be revisited.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the £300 compensation was for matters relating to his car 
insurance, that a claim relating to his gates had been mishandled and that the claim which 
related to the manhole leak wasnt covered by the policy  so shouldnt be recorded as a 
claim.
The investigator explained that they were satisfied the £300 related to his home insurance 
complaint, noting that the payment made no reference to car insurance. They also said the 
issue with the gates had been addressed previously by an ombudsman too, and so  like the 
claim for the leak  couldnt be revisited either.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im not upholding his complaint, Ill explain why.
The rules under which we operate are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook. They say that we may dismiss a complaint if dealing with it would seriously 
impair the effective operation of our service. An example of which is where the subject 
matter of the complaint has previously been considered by us, unless material new evidence 
has subsequently become available to the complainant.
While Ive decided not to dismiss Mr Gs complaint, he hasnt provided us with any material 
new evidence. Rather, he feels we ought to be able to uphold his complaint because hes 
still unsatisfied with UKIs handling, and recording, of his claims. One of our ombudsmen has 
issued a final decision to Mr G explaining, in summary:
They werent persuaded the claim costs relating to the leak were inflated. So, it was fairly 
registered on his policy and with CUE. That the claim record relating to the gates wasnt 
inaccurate, so it was also right to have been recorded on CUE. And that UKI wasnt unfair in 
deciding not to offer policy renewal to Mr G.
It may be helpful for me to add, CUE is intended to be a factual record of costs incurred by 
insurers. So, if costs are incurred, and even if those costs were greater than they should 
have been, then they ought still be recorded. This can be the case even where claims arent 
accepted. In any event, my ombudsman colleague found no inaccuracy in those records.
I would also say that the cost of claims isnt usually required to be disclosed during the 
application for policies, not least because the applicant wont always be privy to such 
information. So, even if the costs were greater than they should have been, I dont consider 
that to be behind the difficulties Mr G says he encountered when seeking replacement cover.
While Im not dismissing Mr Gs complaint, I havent seen any reason why I should arrive at 
a different conclusion. The ombudsman in the previous case explained how they had 
reached their decision and while I appreciate Mr G remains dissatisfied and would like me to 
find failings in what UKI did, Im not persuaded they should be required to provide any further 
remedy to him.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman