DRN-2707938
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) continued to charge him for a 
service that he says he declined. Mr D would like the charges refunded.
What happened
Mr D visited a Nationwide branch with his wife on 23 March 2019 to review their 
investments. A follow up meeting was held on 15 May 2019 to discuss the recommendations 
made by the adviser.
During this meeting, Mr D says that he accepted the adviser recommendations but did not 
wish to use the ongoing advice service. The adviser provided Mr D with a Suitability Letter 
during this meeting which summarised the recommendations made and the charges that 
would apply to the service.
On 7 June 2020, Mr D rang the Platform Provider as he hadnt received any statements 
since 28 May 2019. The Platform Provider said that there had been a system upgrade, but 
quarterly statements had been sent. A copy statement was sent, and Mr D received this on 
14 July 2020.
When Mr D received the statement, he noticed that he had been charged for the ongoing 
advice service that he said he had declined. Mr D telephoned the Platform Provider again 
and he was advised to contact Nationwide.
Mr D emailed Nationwide and the adviser called Mr D to discuss the issue. Mr D said that 
the adviser couldnt recall the meeting but that he had to pay the charges.
Nationwide issued a letter shortly after, saying that they were investigating Mr Ds complaint 
 Mr D said at this point he had not raised a complaint.
Nationwide wrote to Mr D on 11 August with a final response letter where they said that the 
charges were explained, and that Mr D had accepted them. Nationwide didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr D tried to contact Nationwide after he received the letter, but he didnt receive any reply 
from them. Mr D submitted a complaint form online on 19 August 2020 to raise his concerns 
and to provide further information.
Nationwide replied on 20 August 2020 and said that they had considered the information that 
Mr Ds had supplied but this had not affected their original outcome. Nationwide did not 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with Nationwides decision, Mr D referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator thought that Nationwide had acted 
fairly and did not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr D feels strongly about his complaint so I will 
explain why I have reached this decision.
I will start by saying that as I was not present at the meeting between Mr D, who was 
accompanied by his wife, and the adviser, I dont know what was said during this meeting. 
My decision has been taken based on the documentation available to me and what is likely 
to have happened based on the balance of probability.
The meeting that was held on 15 May 2019 was used to discuss the Suitability Letter which 
summarised the adviser recommendations. Mr D, his wife and the adviser were present at 
this meeting.
The Suitability Letter records that the ongoing service charge would be chargeable on both 
Mr Ds and his wifes investments. Mr D does not dispute that the charges were discussed 
and disclosed. Mr D says that he declined the charge at this point.
In a submission to the service, the adviser has said that there was a discussion on whether 
Mrs D could have the service while Mr Ds account would be without the ongoing service. 
The adviser checked the procedures and said that this was permitted.
The advisers notes say that it was suggested to Mr D that he could have the ongoing advice 
service for the moment but that as it was charged daily, he could cancel at any time. The 
adviser said that Mr D agreed to this.
As I have said, I wasnt at the meeting so I cant be sure what was said. I have read Mrs Ds 
submission and I acknowledge her recollection of events. Based on the balance of 
probability, I think that there was a discussion on the ongoing advice service and that Mr D 
was reluctant to take out this part of the service. I also think that it was likely that the adviser 
said that it could have been cancelled at any time.
Based on the documentation available, Mr D opted to take out the ongoing advice service 
and Mr D signed the Customer Agreement on 15 May 2019 to say that the charges for this 
service were explained and that he was happy to pay the charges.
In his submission to the service, Mr D has said that he does not recall seeing a tick in any 
box committing him to the ongoing advice service or that he cannot prove when the tick was 
applied. Having reviewed the customer agreement, I am satisfied that this was completed by 
Mr D and signed by him.
I am mindful of the fact that the ongoing advice service could be cancelled at any time and I 
note that Mr D contacted the Platform Provider in July 2020 to ask why he hadnt received 
any statements. 
Mr D said the address was checked and a copy statement was sent out to Mr D. I have 
checked the address that was on the Platform Providers letters and statements and can see 
that it is the same one used by Mr D in his correspondence with the service. While I cant say for sure that all correspondence reached Mr D, I do think that all correspondence was 
addressed correctly. 
The Platform Provider sent a letter on 18 May 2019 confirming the charges that would be 
applied to Mr Ds account. This included the charge for the ongoing advice service.
In his submission to the service, Mr D says that the October 2019 statement was sent to an 
incorrect address. I have reviewed the October 2019 statement, and this shows the same 
address that the service holds for Mr D.
Mr D contacted the Platform Provider in July 2020 which was over a year after the 
recommendation meeting held with Nationwide in May 2019. Given that Mr D discussed the 
ongoing advice service and the charges that would apply, I think that it would have been 
likely that Mr D would have followed up on this  either to check that he was not being 
charged, or to cancel this part of the service.
Nationwide have also said that their online service would show what charges were applied to 
Mr Ds account but from the information available to me, its unclear if Mr D ever used this 
service.
Mr D has said in his submission that the complaint that was raised initially was registered by 
a Nationwide employee and not by him. Mr D says that he was not asked for his point of 
view or for any evidence.
It is not uncommon for a business to raise a complaint on behalf of a consumer if they feel 
that there is any display of dissatisfaction in the service that has been provided.
Nationwide issued a response to Mr D on 11 August 2020 and Mr D replied to this with 
further information. I am satisfied that Nationwide considered the information supplied by Mr 
D before they issued their final response letter on 20 August 2020.
In summary, I think that Nationwide have acted fairly in disclosing the charge for the ongoing 
advice service and that Mr D agreed to this charge. I have not seen any evidence that Mr D 
wished to cancel the service before he received a further copy statement in July 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman