DRN-2395028
The complaint
Mr S has complained that the premium for his life time pet policy for his dog administered by 
Insurance Factory Ltd trading as Debenhams (IFD) increased unreasonably. 
What happened
Mr S took his policy for his dog with IFD in August 2012. In July 2020 he received a renewal 
invite from IFD and he noted his premium was going to increase from £1,534.08 to 
£2,991.48. He complained to IFD who explained premiums would increase if there were 
claims and Mr S, sadly had made a claim.
However, IFD offered Mr S £500 compensation because it acknowledged it hadnt made this 
clear when he bought the policy in 2012. Mr S thought this was unfair because his 
understanding of pet insurance is that the risk of claims was spread amongst all the 
policyholders not loaded onto a single policyholder or a small group of policyholders.
Mr S didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of 
the view that the compensation offered by IFD of £500 was sufficient in view of the trouble 
and upset caused by the shock in the premium rise, given IFD acknowledged Mr S wasnt 
warned about it.  She didnt think IFD needed to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
However first I would like to apologise for the length of time Mr S has been waiting for my 
decision. We have and are continuing to receive a significant number of complaints and are 
working hard to bring our wait times down. So, I am very sorry Mr S has had to wait such a 
long time.
 
As the investigator explained IFD doesnt set the premium price as thats for the underwriter 
to do. I note Mr S has also made a complaint about the underwriter and that will be dealt with 
separately.
IFD administers the policy and it is responsible for the information given to Mr S about the 
policy and its terms. Life time policies cover the pet for their life time which means illness 
and chronic or ongoing conditions are covered as the pet gets older. The premium for these 
policies is always more expensive than pet policies which would only cover the condition for 
a year and invariably afterwards that condition would then be excluded from cover. Also, as 
the pet ages, more claims are invariably made which changes the risk profile meaning 
premiums are increased.
 
We think this should be made clear at the time the consumer is thinking about the policy and 
here IFD also acknowledged this. And it offered the compensation of £500 for this lack of 
notice, not the fact that the premium increased or the amount of the increase, as thats got 
nothing to do with IFD. So, this compensation was offered simply for the fact the policy 
documentation didnt explain clearly enough when Mr S bought his policy that the premium 
could well rise substantially when he made claims as his pet got older. 
I consider IFD was reasonable in acknowledging its failing in explaining how this policy 
would work as regards increases in premium. I also consider the level of compensation to be 
fair for this level of upset. We consider awards of this amount to adequately reflect a level of 
considerable distress which I consider is appropriate here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman