DRN-3304007
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P ('the complainants') are represented. Their representative says Barclays 
Bank UK PLC ('Barclays') is responsible for recommending their investment of around 
£150,000 in an unsuitable Barclays Investment Management Service ('BIMS') portfolios (the 
portfolio) that was too risky for them, that consumed too much of their capital and that 
wrongly overtook a need (or ability) to repay an outstanding mortgage that they should have 
been advised to repay. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she said:
In 1996 another firm recommended the Discretionary Managed Portfolio ('DMP') to 
the complainants, Barclays took over that firm in 2003 and the DMP became a 
Barclays Private Bank DMP (containing a collection of stocks, shares and other 
securities). The complainants surrendered the DMP mainly in 2006 and then the 
remainder by 2015. Barclays initially said the complaint is out of time, but it agreed 
that this service can investigate it after she shared her view that the complaint can be 
investigated.
Available evidence is limited. Due to the passage of time, the fact-find and suitability 
letter for the investment cannot be located. This is not unreasonable, given that they 
did not need to be retained beyond six years of their creation. However, Barclays has 
been able to provide a copy of the application/agreement for the investment.
The complainants were in their late 40s/early 50s at the time of the recommendation, 
they had previous investment experience, they both earned income, their outstanding 
mortgage was £63,000 and there is no evidence of any other liabilities at the time. 
The terms of business they signed on 11 March 1996 confirmed their objective for 
maximising capital growth and their high attitude to risk ('ATR'). Review 
documentation from 2004 and 2005 shows that, at the time, they had adequate cash 
reserves, they had the high ATR and they had the objective for capital growth over 
the medium to long term. This appears to have been their profile throughout. In order 
to achieve higher returns risks had to be taken, they had the high ATR for that and a 
reasonable level of cash reserve. When the main part of the investment was 
surrendered in 2006 that was done for a reinvestment reason and there is nothing to 
show that the investment was unaffordable for them.
Having invested £150,000 in the portfolio, most of it was surrendered in 2005 for 
£172,000, at a profit.
Overall, the investment was not unsuitable for the complainants.
The complainants did not accept this outcome and, on their behalf, their representative 
mainly said:
The previous investment experience (with a previous adviser) mentioned in the case 
has been misunderstood. It is not about separate experience prior to 1996, It is about 
the investment experience in 1996 with the firm that was subsequently taken over by 
Barclays  so it is about the same portfolio that was passed to Barclays.
£150,000 represented most of their net assets at the time of advice, and that was an 
unacceptable proportion to be used for the investment.
Their representative asked for an ombudsman's decision if the investigator was not 
persuaded to change her view. She was not, and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators and I share (and 
incorporate) her core reasoning in this decision.
The complaint is about alleged unsuitability of the complainants portfolio and Barclays 
alleged responsibility for that. Barclays does not appear to have made any arguments 
denying responsibility for the portfolio recommendation. In 2003, it took over the firm that 
provided the initial 1996 recommendation to the complainants. 
Its responsibility for clients thereafter can be inferred from that takeover but, depending on 
the circumstances of a takeover, responsibility for prior client liabilities can be a separate 
matter and if that responsibility was to pass it would usually require express novation. I have 
not seen evidence of this. However, I draw from Barclays position in standing as respondent 
to the complaint, and the absence of its denial of such responsibility, to conclude that this is 
not a live or disputed matter and is not one I need to determine. Furthermore, I expect that 
the complainants and their representative will argue that, in any case, Barclays had a duty to 
review suitability of the portfolio in 2003 upon its takeover, so it remains responsible for their 
claim nevertheless.
There are a number of key elements to consider in terms of suitability (or otherwise) of a 
recommended investment. They are an investors profile at the time of the recommendation 
(mainly objective(s), attitude to risk (ATR), investment experience and affordability status 
(including capacity for loss)); whether (or not), on balance, the advisers recommendation 
was suitable for the investors profile; and whether (or not), on balance, the investor was 
informed about the nature of the recommended investment and its risks.
It is also important to bear in mind that, depending on the circumstances, there could be 
more than one suitable recommendation for an investor. The regulatory duty to assess and 
give suitable advice does not require a firm to give the most suitable advice, or to give 
advice that is considered more suitable than another. If, on balance, the complainants 
portfolio was suitable for them I am not required to consider whether (or not) something else 
could have been more or most suitable.
As the investigator said, evidence is limited in this case due to the passage of time since the 
initial advice in 1996 (and since Barclays takeover in 2003). However, I am satisfied that 
there is enough evidence to determine, on balance and like the investigator concluded, that 
the complainants portfolio was not unsuitable for them  or, to put this another way, I am not 
satisfied that available evidence establishes, on balance, the portfolio was unsuitable for 
them.  
Evidence of their high ATR appears to be beyond dispute. It is stated in the 1996 client 
agreement documentation that they signed and it is repeated in the portfolio review 
documents set to them after Barclays takeover  copies of these documents, including from 
2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014, have been shared with us; they summarise each complainants 
investor profile; those summaries consistently confirm high risk profiles; and the documents (like the 1996 agreement) invited them to object if any information about their profiles was 
wrong, but there is no evidence of any such objection at any time from 1996 onwards.
The same findings apply to the complainants capital growth objective  which is also stated 
in the 1996 agreement and is consistently repeated in the portfolio review documents.
There is not enough information about the background leading to the high ATR the 
complainants chose to use for the portfolio. If, as their representative argues, the past 
investment experience that has been mentioned relates to the 1996 investment then this 
lack of information also means it is not clear whether (or not) they previously had high risk 
investment experience. Nevertheless, the evidence I have summarised above shows that 
they presented themselves with high risk profiles for the portfolio; that they did so from its 
inception through to the period around Barclays takeover and the period around the majority 
surrender of the portfolio; also through to the period around the final/remainder surrender of 
the portfolio; and, essentially, they did so consistently throughout the life of the portfolio. The 
portfolio, overall, appears to have been model based (an adventurous model), ISA based, 
managed and its contents were broadly as the investigator summarised (that is, a collection 
of stocks, shares and other securities). On balance, I consider that it did not mismatch the 
complainants ATR.
The portfolio also did not mismatch their capital growth objective. The relevant model was 
not just adventurous it was expressly geared towards capital growth and its contents lent 
themselves to that objective.
The portfolio review documents, at least from 2009, consistently confirmed the following to 
the complainants  
Financial Information and Attitude to Investment
Your Investment Manager has analysed the information given to us or known already about 
your current financial position and attitude to investment, and has concluded that:
You have adequate cash reserves for your short term needs and for emergencies.
Your assets are greater than your liabilities.
Your income is greater than your expenditure.
I have not seen evidence that they disputed these review statements so, on balance, I 
consider them to be reliable and to be evidence that the portfolio was affordable (including 
capacity for loss) for the complainants during this period and probably from the outset. 
Despite their representative arguing the opposite, I am not persuaded that the balance of 
available evidence establishes otherwise.
It follows from the above analysis of available evidence that, on balance, the portfolio 
matched the complainants investor profiles. I am also satisfied by the contents of the 
undisputed 1996 agreement they signed and the undisputed review documents they 
received, that they were informed about and understood the nature of the portfolio and its 
risks. Overall, I am not persuaded that the portfolio was unsuitable for them. I have noted 
their representatives argument about paying off their mortgage and I do not suggest that 
would not have been a good idea, however that argument alone does not render the portfolio 
unsuitable  and I have addressed the key aspects that show it was not unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs P and Mrs Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman