DRN-2432320
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy about the amount he has left to pay under an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd after he rejected the car.
What happened
Mr J bought a used car in July 2020 with the assistance of finance provided by Advantage 
Finance Ltd. The car was advertised at £4,150 and the dealership offered Mr J £500 for his 
current car as a part exchange. Mr J owed £1277.42 in finance on that car which was added 
to the finance for the new car. Mr J borrowed a total of £4927.42.
The new car was not of satisfactory quality and Mr J returned it. Mr J asked Advantage 
Finance to unwind the agreement. Advantage Finance unwound the agreement and 
originally said that Mr J owed the £1277.42 in negative equity left from his previous car. Mr J 
pointed out that the part exchange value of £500 was not detailed in the finance as a deposit 
and so Advantage Finance agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by £500 to reflect this.
Our investigator considered that this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He 
thought that Advantage Finance didnt need to do anything further as it had already reduced 
the outstanding amount to reflect the part-exchange value of the car. The investigator didnt 
think that Advantage Finance should pay any more as Mr J had the use of the car for 3 
months and only made one repayment under the finance agreement, so this was fair in all 
the circumstances.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr J said that it was 
unfair that he no longer had a car and he was now in debt as well. Mr J said that he had 
been misled into buying the new car and now he had no car and he had been paying for his 
previous car for a long time with no benefit. Mr J didnt think it was fair that he should pay 
anything, and he wants the outstanding balance written off. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute and are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my decision. I want to re-assure Mr J that I 
have read everything and considered all his arguments in detail. I do understand the point he 
is making, and I appreciate that he feels misled and upset that he has a debt to pay and no 
car to show for it.
When a car is rejected the principle is to put the buyer back in the position they would have 
been in, if the sale hadnt taken place.  This means that Mr J is entitled to have all the money 
he paid under the agreement returned to him, subject to a deduction for fair use. Usually this 
means that the finance company will return the deposit and a possibly a proportion of the 
monthly repayments.
In Mr Js case, he didnt pay a cash deposit, but he traded in his old car. The supplying 
dealership gave him £500 allowance for that car, but Mr J owed £1277.42 in finance. As has 
been explained to Mr J, the car was in negative equity. This means that the car wasnt worth 
as much as the finance owing on the car.
In order to buy the new car Mr J needed to pay off the finance on the old car. Advantage 
Finance lent Mr J the money to pay off the finance and added it to the price of the new car. 
Mr J was always in the position where he had a continuing debt for his old car.
Now that the car has been rejected and the finance unwound Mr J still owes the difference 
between what his old car was worth and the finance outstanding. If the agreement had 
continued Mr J would have been reducing that debt as well as paying for the new car.
Advantage Finance has agreed to reduce the negative equity by the £500 part exchange 
value which is all I can ask it to do in these circumstances. I dont think it is fair or reasonable 
to ask it to wipe off a debt that Mr J had at the start of the agreement. 
I do understand Mr Js upset and frustration that he has no car and I sympathise. But I cant 
ask Advantage Finance to write off this debt. For obvious reasons it isnt possible to return 
Mr Js car and re-instate the old agreement. 
However, Mr J would have been reducing the debt by instalments and so I agree with the 
investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage Finance to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr J to repay the negative equity.
As Mr J only made one repayment under the agreement and had use of the car for 3 
months, I cant ask Advantage Finance to refund him any more as I think that this repayment 
represents fair usage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman