DRN-3858224
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited is not refunding him after he fell victim to what he 
considers a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision. But briefly: 
Mr B works in the fashion industry and initially did some work for a designer - I will refer to as 
C. They met a few times and Mr B then became involved in helping with some decorating of 
Cs offices. C then asked whether Mr B could loan him some money with an opportunity to 
invest/receive profits in Cs business. C told Mr B he had agreed a contract to provide 
clothes to a well-known retailer but needed some money to complete the order. C said he 
would pay Mr B back what he lent him with a profit. So, Mr B made a number of payments to 
C, including two payments on 2 March 2021 (£1,600 followed by £3,400) totalling £5,000 
from his Starling account.
Mr B did receive some money back from C in relation to some earlier payments he made 
from his other bank account, but by the time he had made the two payments from his 
Starling account no further returns were forthcoming.
Starling felt the situation was a civil matter between Mr B and C, so it didnt agree to refund 
the money he had lost. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Starlings response, so referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. Initially we said it was a civil dispute. But 
after further investigation we concluded that C set out with the intention to defraud Mr B so 
should be treated as a scam rather than a civil dispute. They also didnt think Starling had 
established that Mr B had ignored an effective warning when making the payment or that he 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing C was legitimate. So, she thought Starling 
should refund the money Mr B had lost in full. 
Starling disagreed with our investigator. It thinks this is a civil dispute, but it says that even if 
it isnt deemed one, if feels it shouldnt refund 100% of the money lost  as the deal was too 
good to be true. It also considers it gave effective warnings.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
I am sorry for the length of time it has taken to reach this stage and thank both parties for 
their patience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions broadly for the same reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Does the CRM code apply to the payments Mr B made?
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But 
customers are only covered by the CRM Code where they have been the victim of a scam; 
specifically, the CRM Code covers situations where:
(i) The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
And the Code does say it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
So, in order to decide whether Starling should refund the money Mr B lost under the CRM 
Code, I first need to consider whether he has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, 
whether C set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr B.
Starling has said it still believes this is a civil dispute.  Im aware that C had a showroom and 
employees, showed Mr B convincing looking paperwork, and that Mr B had met C in person 
several times. So, at first glance it appears that this was a genuine business opportunity that 
just went wrong.
But the information Ive seen suggests there were a significant number of other people who 
lent money to C for similar reasons to Mr B and didnt get their money back. It appears the 
paperwork Mr B was shown by C was fake, and C showed similar fake paperwork from 
different well-known retailers to the other people as well. The orders C told Mr B and the 
other people he needed to complete dont appear to have ever existed. So, I think its more 
likely than not, C set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr B.
Mr B thought he was lending C money so he could complete an order with a retailer. And 
that C would pay him back, plus some profit, once the order was complete. But the order 
didnt really exist. So, I think the purpose Mr B transferred the funds for was fraudulent, and 
this situation does fall under the CRM Code.
Is Mr B entitled to a refund under the CRM code?
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
authorised push payment scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for 
the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but these dont apply here.
Did Starling meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Mr B ignore an effective 
warning?
The CRM Code says that effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the Customer is initiating the payment instructions.
The first transfer of £1,600 was relatively small (although I appreciate it was a lot of money 
to Mr B), and I dont think Starling ought reasonably to have identified a risk. That said, 
Starling did provide a friends and family warning which was the payment purpose Mr B 
selected at the time. Starling has confirmed selecting the payment purpose investment was 
also an option at the time. But I am also mindful in the overall context of the circumstances 
here (paying someone Mr B considered at the time to be a friend and whom he knew in 
person) his choice was not totally unreasonable. 
 
I haven't repeated the warning that was shown during the online payment process because I 
accept that Mr Bs choice made it very difficult for Starling to give a tailored and impactful 
warning. It wouldn't be fair to suggest that Starling had failed to adhere to an obligation that it 
was never possible for it to meet. It's also the case that, had its investment warning met the 
definition of 'effective' under the CRM Code (that's not a finding I need to make here), it 
would be irrelevant because Mr B didnt see that particular warning. So, I don't find that 
Starling has failed in its obligation to provide an effective warning, but I also cant say Mr B 
ignored an effective warning either. 
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief?
I need to consider not just whether Mr B believed he was lending money for a return, but 
whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive thought about the steps Mr B took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transactions and whether it was reasonable for 
him to proceed with the payments. 
I think it is difficult for Starling to argue that Mr B had no reasonable basis for belief  when it 
still considers this to be a civil dispute (that is to say - Starling still considers this to have 
been a payment for legitimate purposes). 
I dont think Starling has established that Mr B made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for belief that it was genuine. Mr B had met C in person and even helped C decorate the 
office. He saw manufacturing equipment and sewing machines - which further made it seem 
like a legitimate business. Mr B was also shown a genuine-looking letter between C and the 
retailer, showing the order he had supposedly agreed with them. C then sent him a relatively 
professional-looking loan agreement to sign. The company was registered on Companies 
House seemingly as a genuine clothing firm at the time. So, I think Mr B did have a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was genuine.
Whilst the promised return was high  Mr B did receive those returns for the initial payments. 
With these types of scams, its usual for consumers to receive some returns, as its money 
invested by other victims. This further reinforced his belief that this was a genuine deal. With the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some red flags (for example Starling 
cites the scammers passport which it says is obviously fake). But I think it would have taken 
a lot of investigation to unearth the facts that have now come to light. And as Starling seems 
to readily accepts this appeared genuine to the extent it made representations that this was 
a civil dispute, in all the circumstances, I dont think Mr Bs response was unreasonable. 
Should Starling have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr B?
Aside from the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, Ive thought about whether Starling missed an opportunity to intervene at the time Mr B 
made these payments, potentially preventing him from experiencing financial harm. The 
payments were relatively small (although I appreciate it was a lot of money to Mr B) and did 
not look unusual or suspicious based on the account activity. Banks cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
This finding doesnt change the overall outcome. The relevance of this point is that interest 
should be paid from the date the claim was declined rather than when the payments were 
made.
Did Starling do enough to recover Mr Bs funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But Ive thought about 
whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Mr Bs funds once it was made aware, he 
was the victim of a scam. 
The scam payments were made on 2 March 2021 and Mr B reported the scam on 15 July 
2021. Starling contacted the beneficiary bank almost immediately the same day, but no 
funds remain. This is not unusual as most scammer move money within hours. From what 
Ive seen Starling has done what it shouldve to try and recover the funds for Mr B but wasnt 
able to recover any funds.
In conclusion, I dont consider this case to be a civil dispute and therefore is covered by the 
CRM Code. I dont think Starling has established that any of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code apply. So, it should refund the £5,000 Mr B has lost as 
a result of this scam.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B, Starling Bank Limited should refund the two transactions 
totalling £5,000. To compensate Mr B for being deprived of the money he lost, Starling 
should add simple interest1 at the rate of 8% per annum to the above, from the date his 
claim was declined to the date of settlement.
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr B a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Starling Bank Limited to put things 
right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman