DRN-4018837
The complaint
Mr C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and the decision to 
cancel his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 August 2022, Mr C took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by RSA. This policy 
was reviewed by RSA and in mid-September, RSA emailed Mr C explaining they needed 
additional information from him to validate his policy. This information included proof of 
address dated within the previous three months, and original proof of his No Claim Bonus 
(NCB).
Mr C attempted to send this information to RSA on several occasions. But RSA were unable 
to accept the initial proof of address Mr C sent, as well as the NCB evidence hed provided. 
RSA emailed Mr C on 3 October and 18 October setting out the documents they still 
required. And in the email dated 18 October, RSA explained that if this information wasnt 
received by 25 October, Mr Cs policy would be cancelled.
Mr C called RSA to discuss this on 20 October. And again, RSA set out the information that 
was needed. Mr C says he ended this call expecting a call back from RSA, but no call back 
was received. And Mr C didnt provide any further information after this date. So, RSA wrote 
to Mr C confirming his policy had been cancelled on 27 October. Mr C was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think RSAs decision to cancel his policy was fair. He felt hed provided the 
information RSA had requested. And he thought RSAs failure to call him back had impacted 
his ability to ensure he complied with their document request. Mr C explained due to the 
cancellation, hed been unable to take out insurance elsewhere due to the increased price 
and this had impacted his ability to care for his family. So, he wanted the cancellation to be 
removed and to be compensated for the upset hed been caused.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the policy had been 
cancelled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as no valid NCB documentation 
had been provided. And they thought theyd acted fairly when trying to obtain this 
information, explaining they had extended the time Mr C had to provide this. So, RSA didnt 
think they needed to do anything more on this occasion. Mr C remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that RSA 
were able to cancel Mr Cs policy if they felt they hadnt received documentation they had 
requested. And our investigator thought RSA acted reasonably when not accepting the NCB 
documentation Mr C had sent before the cancellation was confirmed. They did recognise 
why Mr C expected a call back following the conversation between himself and RSA on 20 
October, but even though they accepted there was a misunderstanding, they didnt think this 
meant RSA had acted unfairly as they felt Mr C would still have been aware of what he was 
required to send, and by when. So, our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything 
more.
Mr C didnt agree. He maintained his view that RSAs request for information wasnt clear 
and that hed been disadvantaged by the lack of a call back. And he provided a recent letter 
from his previous insurer, confirming the NCB he had and when his previous policy had been 
cancelled. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise Mr C has 
recently sent our service a letter from his previous insurer, which confirms the NCB he was 
entitled to. So, I can understand why Mr C would feel unfairly treated, as RSA cancelled his 
insurance policy as they were unable to verify the NCB that Im satisfied he had fairly 
amassed at the time. And I dont dispute Mr Cs testimony that, due to the cancellation 
recorded by RSA, his ability to obtain alternative insurance has been impacted as he 
wouldve needed to declare this cancellation and I think its likely premium quotes increased 
because of this.
But for me to say RSA should remove the cancellation or compensate Mr C for distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused, I first need to be satisfied RSA have done something 
wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that RSA failed to act within the terms of the policy Mr C 
held when cancelling it. Or, if I think they did act within these terms, that they were unfair to 
do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms of the policy Mr C held. And these explain within the section titled 
Cancelling your policy that Where there is a valid reason for us to cancel your policy we 
will do so by giving you at least seven days notice either in writing to your last known 
address or by email. We will confirm any action required from you, together with the date 
from which the policy will be cancelled if you do not comply with our requirements. 
The policy terms then go onto list a non-exhaustive list of what they deemed to be valid 
reasons. And this list included Failing to provide information or documentation requested by 
us. This could include but is not limited to proof of No Claim Bonus
In this situation, I can see in an email sent to Mr C on 18 October 2022, RSA explained they 
still required Original proof of your No Claim Bonus. And the email explained that if Mr C 
didnt get in touch with RSA providing the information request, that email counted as the 
seven days cancellation notice, stating clearly that the policy would finish on 25 October at 
midnight.
So, Im satisfied that RSA acted in line with the terms of the policy when cancelling it, as they 
were able to do so if Mr C failed to provide information they requested. And Im satisfied they 
gave Mr C the required notice before doing so. But as Ive explained above, Ive also 
considered whether this was fair.
I recognise Mr C doesnt think it was, as he feels he provided the necessary information and 
that RSA failed to call him back after 20 October. So, Ive thought about this at length.
Ive carefully considered the NCB information Mr C did send to RSA. I note that this information was sent in photo format, with only parts of the documentation being shown. I 
can see that this information shows his previous policies renewal quote. And it does show 
that there were 9 years NCB. But, crucially, this was amassed against a different vehicle 
registration to the one he wanted to insure with RSA. And this renewal document was from 
February 2022, which was six months before Mr C took out the new policy with RSA. So, 
while this document showed that Mr C may have had 9 years NCB in February 2022 against 
a previous car, I dont think it gave enough information that could satisfy RSA that this NCB 
was still in place over the six months between this renewal document, and when he took out 
the policy with them.
I also note that Mr C sent the evidence in as a screenshot copy via email, when I think 
RSAs document requests made it reasonably clear the original NCB documentation was 
required. And due to the way the photos were taken, I cant see that the NCB was stated on 
headed paper, with a date or a date of cancellation relating to the previous policy. So, for 
these reasons, I dont think I can say RSA have acted unfairly when deciding this 
documentation failed to validate the NCB Mr Cs policy with them was based upon.
I also note that since RSA cancelled Mr Cs policy, and since his complaint has been with 
our service, Mr C has been able to obtain a document from his previous insurer which 
confirmed the NCB and the cancellation date of the previous policy. So, Im satisfied that Mr 
C was able to obtain the information RSA required. If there was any delay in obtaining this 
from his previous insurer, this would be Mr Cs previous insurers responsibility, and not RSA. 
And as this wasnt provided to RSA before 25 October 2022, I dont think this impacts the 
decision Ive reached.
Ive also listened to the call recordings of Mr Cs conversation with RSA on 20 October. And I 
think its clear there was a misunderstanding between Mr C and RSA, and I can understand 
why Mr C may have felt a call back was due. But I dont think this call back was agreed 
before Mr C terminated the call. And even if it had been agreed, at this point I think Mr C was 
reasonably aware he needed to provide different documentation to what hed already sent. 
And I think he was aware of when this needed to be sent by. So, if a call back had been 
agreed and not been complied with, I wouldve expected Mr C to contact RSA again before 
25 October to ensure he had time to obtain the necessary documentation. And I cant see he 
did. 
So, while I do understand Mr Cs frustrations and I dont doubt the impact hes experienced 
since in obtaining new insurance, I dont think I can say RSA have done something wrong 
that makes them responsible for this, or that means they should take further action. So, I 
dont think RSA need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman