DRN-1992765
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Red Sands Insurance company (Europe) Limited has not 
reimbursed her for repairs she had carried out to her car and has not refunded the premium 
she paid for the policy.
Any reference to Red Sands in this decision will include work carried out by its agents.
What happened
Miss H held a smart repair policy with Red Sands and as her car had become damaged, she 
claimed under the policy. Red Sands agreed that four of the damaged areas would be 
covered under the policy and repairs were arranged.
On 23 January 2019 repairs were carried out to Miss Hs car, but as Miss H was not happy 
with the standard of the repairs, a further repair was carried out on 4 February 2019.
Miss H has told us that even after the second attempt the repairs were below a reasonable 
standard, so she went directly to another garage and paid for the repair herself. When Miss 
H attempted to claim the cost of the repair back from Red Sands it told her that the cost 
wasnt covered under the policy and refused to reimburse her.
Miss H has said that she doesnt intend to use the policy again as the standard of repairs 
were so low. If Red Sands will not reimburse the cost of repairs, she would like it to refund 
the cost of the policy to her.
Our investigator considered Miss Hs complaint and didnt think Red Sands had acted 
unfairly by not reimbursing Miss H for the cost of the repairs, or the premiums she had paid. 
As Miss H didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute, so I have considered whether Red 
Sands have acted fairly and whether it needs to do anything to resolve Miss Hs complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy, like most other similar policies, explains that 
repair work not authorised in advance will not be covered under the policy. I think this term is 
a reasonable one.
Miss H did complain after the first attempt to repair her car was found to be unsatisfactory, 
and then as the second repair still did not meet her expectations went directly to a different 
garage outside of her policy to have the repairs carried out.
I can understand why Miss H would have lost confidence in the service provided under her 
policy when she remained dissatisfied after two attempts to repair her car. But I think it would 
have been reasonable for Miss H to contact Red Sands before she arranged for repairs to be carried out herself. This would have allowed Red Sands to inspect the repairs beforehand 
and decide whether to approve repairs elsewhere.
We have asked Miss H if she can provide comments from her own repairer that shows the 
previous repair was below a reasonable standard, and what repairs were then necessary as 
a result of the repairs carried out by Red Sands. But Miss H has explained she is not able to 
do this.
With the above in mind I have not been able to determine, with supporting independent 
evidence, what additional repairs if any should have been carried out under Miss Hs policy.
Miss Hs policy specifically excludes repairs that have not been authorised by it in advance 
and as Ive said above, I dont think this is unreasonable. It is common practice for an insurer 
to assess any damage, or poor repair before agreeing to cover the cost of repairs.
As I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly by refusing to reimburse the cost of Miss Hs 
repairs, I also dont think it would be reasonable to ask Red Sands to refund the cost of her 
policy. Miss H may want to cancel the policy directly with Red Sands, but as a claim has 
already been made, she may not receive a refund
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman