DRN-3996829
The complaint
Mr G complains about the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
paid out under a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering his car which hed bought new.
In August 2022, the car was damaged in an accident and it was assessed as being beyond 
economical repair by Advantage. The car was written-off and it was less than 12 months old.
Mr Gs policy with Advantage included cover which would mean that it would replace Mr Gs 
car with a new one. 
Advantage said it couldnt supply a replacement because the car had to be ordered from the 
manufacturer, and a replacement wouldnt be ready until about April 2023. 
Because of this delay, Advantage said it would settle the claim in cash. It said it would pay 
Mr G £ £38,807. It said it would do this because this section of its policy wording allowed it 
to:
If a suitable replacement car isnt available, your Insurer will either:
 Pay you the price you paid for your Car (including any optional extras fitted by the 
manufacturer when new), including taxes at the time of loss; or
 Pay you the manufacturers latest list price (including taxes).
Your Insurer will pay whichever is less and will deduct any Excess that applies.
Mr G was unhappy with this. He says the cars price has risen to £44,880 which is the 
amount he would expect Advantage to pay to settle his claim.
Advantage wouldnt increase its offer so Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. She thought Advantage should have 
asked Mr G how much a new car would have cost him, and settled his claim for that amount 
plus interest at 8% simple.
Mr G agreed with the view, but Advantage didnt. Because it didnt agree, Mr Gs complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the cover Advantage provides which says:
If your Car is less than one year old and youre the first and only registered owner 
(or prospective owner under a hire purchase or lease purchase contract), your 
Insurer will replace it with one of the same make and model if either of the following 
applies:
 Its suffered damage covered by the Policy, and your Insurer estimates that the cost 
of repairing it will be more than 60% of the current United Kingdom list price 
(including taxes).
Your Insurer can only do this if a replacement car is in current production, its 
available in the UK and anyone else who has an interest in your Car agrees.
I can see from Advantages claims notes that it accepted his claim and that the car was 
going to be difficult to replace under this section of cover.
Mr Gs car was in current production, but it was a make and model that would need to be 
ordered from the manufacturer. 
Having established that the car was going to be hard to source, it seems to me that 
Advantage then quickly decided that it would settle Mr Gs claim for cash. It is able to do this 
under the terms of its policy and I think its fair to do so.
But, the cover then says it will pay Mr G the lowest of either the amount he paid for the car 
(which was £37,820) or the manufacturers latest list price.
Mr G has provided evidence that this was £44,880 at the end of August 2022. Advantage 
has disputed this amount and says it includes interest. I dont agree with Advantage here as 
Mr Gs evidence includes the phrase OTR which Id accept means On The Road, 
meaning its a cash price.
It seems to me that by choosing to settle the claim for cash and then being able to choose 
the lower amount, Advantage is taking advantage of a term it has applied into Mr Gs policy 
that only benefits Advantage. 
Its also important that I say Mr G didnt ask for his claim to be settled in this way, but that 
Advantage chose it.
In my opinion the clause that Advantage has used isnt fair and reasonable as it can only 
benefit Advantage, and may cause inconvenience to its customers like it has done with Mr G 
here. 
The fair and reasonable answer here is for Advantage pay Mr G the difference between what 
it has paid already, and what it would have cost Mr G to buy an equivalent new car 
replacement at the time of the loss. 
I think its also fair that Advantage pay Mr G interest at 8% simple on this amount, between 
the date it originally settled the claim and the date it makes this payment to Mr G.
Ive said above that Mr G has provided evidence of the replacement cars price to this 
service and Id ask that he and Advantage liaise to agree that this figure represents the 
correct price without delay so that Advantage can make payment. For the avoidance of 
doubt, its my expectation that £44,880 represents the correct manufacturers list price for 
the and Id expect both parties to proceed accordingly.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G the difference between the 
amount it has already settled his claim for, and the manufacturers list price at the date of 
loss. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should also pay interest on this amount at 8% 
simple from the date it originally settled the claim, to the date it makes payment.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr G, it should tell him how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman