DRN-3682557
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Metro Bank PLC has unfairly restricted her account usage.
What happened
Mrs A says Metro has placed unnecessary restrictions on her account. She says she is 
limited in the amount she can withdraw and says, despite what Metro believes, she is not a 
victim of fraud or a scam. Mrs A would like access to her account and compensation for what 
has taken place. She says the restrictions are based on her previous banking providers 
comments to Metro about her and her account.
Metro says its entitled to place restrictions on an account in line with account terms and 
conditions. It accepts it placed those restrictions on Mrs As account following information 
from a third-party business. But it says Mrs A can withdraw up to £500 a week and it will 
consider authorising a transaction with evidence of the intended recipient.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought this was Mrs As account and her money, but that Metro was entitled to 
restrict account usage in line with account terms and conditions. The investigator thought 
Metro hadnt acted fairly by not investigating any scam or fraud issues itself and by simply 
relying on information from a different organisation. The investigator thought the restrictions 
had no end date and recommended they be removed as well as Mrs A be paid £300 
compensation with an apology.
Metro doesnt accept that view and says it has a duty to protect vulnerable customers which 
the investigator has ignored.  
Mrs A doesnt accept that view and says the compensation isnt enough for what has taken 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
There is no question here that Metro is entitled in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions to restrict account usage when it has certain concerns about an account or 
transaction. I can see that Metro was given information by Mrs As previous banking 
provider, but I cant see any evidence that Metro itself has investigated those concerns or 
spoken in detail with Mrs A about them. And I have not seen any evidence that Metro has 
carried out its own risk assessment or referred any concerns to a different organisation that 
would investigate fraud. So, Im satisfied that the account restrictions are unfair and dis-
proportionate to apply open ended restrictions to Mrs As account. I dont think Metro has 
considered an end date to the restrictions and hasnt taken any consideration about Mrs As 
health position or reasons why she wanted to withdraw large amounts of cash.
Im satisfied that Mrs A has made clear that she is not the victim of fraud or subject to a 
scam and that the money in her Metro account is hers not Metros. I dont think the 
restrictions are fair and cant see any justification for them or for further checks Metro says it 
will carry out on any proposed transactions.
I appreciate Metro says it has a duty of care to protect vulnerable customers. But I cant see 
what if any evidence it relies on about Mrs A to make such a finding. And if Metro has those 
concerns then I would have expected it to have met with Mrs A and discussed its concerns 
as well as listened to Mrs A about her position. No doubt Metro could have explained that if 
Mrs A does wish to make certain transactions, then she could have no complaints if they 
were not legitimate in these circumstances.
I have no doubt Mrs A was caused distress and inconvenience in trying to access her money 
and in trying to find out why the restrictions were applied. I think that the restrictions have 
been in place for some time and so the impact on Mrs A was relatively significant. For those 
reasons I agree with the investigator that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Metro should remove the account restrictions and I agree with the investigator that it should 
pay £300 compensation. I dont require Metro to apologise as the investigator 
recommended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Metro Bank PLC to remove the 
account restrictions on Mrs As account and pay her £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman