DRN-3957599
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
handled a claim he said he made for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Before the August 2019 deadline for making mis-sold PPI complaints Mr P used the services 
of FTR, a claims management company. He signed their letter of authority (LoA) instructing 
them to act on his behalf. He had a successful mis-sold PPI claim with one of his lenders 
and had paid FTR their success fee for this. But he said he wasnt told about another claim 
he had with another lender Ill call B. Mr P said he called FTR several times to get an 
update about his claim but said FTR only wanted him to pursue his previous successful 
claim further and to consider whether the redress had been miscalculated. Mr P said after 
several failed attempts to get an update he decided to cancel his claim with FTR and to go 
direct to B about his claim. He said shortly afterwards he received compensation from B. 
But several months later in August 2021 FTR asked him to pay their success fee for this 
compensation. Mr P complained to FTR.
In November 2021 FTR responded to his complaint, they offered him a 50% reduction in the 
fee. But Mr P said they hadnt addressed all his concerns and their response was inaccurate. 
He continued with his complaint. But in August 2022 he said FTR sent him their final 
response and removed the 50% reduction offer. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider the complaint points addressed by FTR in their 
final response letter in November 2021 as Mr P had brought his complaint too late for us to 
consider. And FTR hadnt given their consent for us to consider it. Our investigator 
considered the new complaints considered in FTRs final response letter sent in August 
2022:
the main reason for contact is recorded within the case notes but no other 
business or enquiries are noted;
referring completed claims to the Financial Ombudsman Service; and
B didnt make an award for mis-sold PPI because the claim was late, the award was 
about unfair commission.
Our investigator said FTR had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt ask them to do 
anything more.
Mr P didnt agree he said he wasnt aware hed made two complaints it was a continuation of 
the same complaint. And hed brought it to us only after hed received a final response to his 
complaint. He said it was unfair of FTR to ask him to pay a fee nearly a year after hed 
received the compensation from the claim hed made with B. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant look at each and every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that were 
governed by  known as the DISP rules  set out which complaints we can and cant 
consider. The rules are set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and can be found in its handbook online.
The DISP rules include certain time limits. In particular, DISP 2.8.2 says that a complaint 
must be referred to us within six months of the date of the businesss final response. If it 
isnt, and the business doesnt agree to us doing so, we cant consider the complaint  
unless the failure to comply with the time limit is due to exceptional circumstances. 
FTR havent agreed to us looking into Mr Ps complaint because they said its been referred 
to us more than six months after their final response in November 2021.
Final response is a defined term under the DISP rules. So, when deciding whether the six-
month time limit started Ive considered if FTRs letter met this definition. FTRs final 
response needed to give:
the outcome of the complaint;
that Mr P could contact us if he wasnt happy with that outcome (and how). 
that theres a time limit if should she want to contact us (and when that is); and
that were informal and accessible (hence our leaflet/website); and 
whether or not theyd consent if the complaint is referred late
Ive looked at FTRs final response letter they sent to Mr P dated 21 November 2021 and Im 
satisfied that the letter met the definition of a final response. It contained the appropriate 
information to make Mr P aware that while hed the right to refer the complaint to our service, 
hed to do so within six months of the date of the letter. That meant Mr Ps complaint needed 
to be with us by 21 May 2022. 
Mr P said that he was in discussion with FTR about their November 2021 response as there 
were several inaccuracies and unanswered points. I can see he first raised these concerns 
with FTR in January 2022. But he said it wasnt until August 2022 that he considered FTRs 
response was final and referred his complaint to us.
When a business sends a further response after theyve sent a final response letter I need to 
determine whether this shows the business has withdrawn its final response  so had FTR 
said the November 2021 final response didnt count anymore. If they had then the six-month 
time limit might start again from the new final response. 
Ive considered the FRL sent in August 2022 to see whether this re set the time for Mr P to 
bring his complaint to us.  But I dont consider it did as this final response letter says 
immediately that FTR defended the final response letter theyd sent previously. And that 
they were only considering complaint points that hadnt been addressed then. So I dont 
think the six month time allowed for Mr P to bring his complaint to us that had been 
addressed by FTR in November 2021 had stopped.Ive also considered Mr Ps testimony that he thought this was a continuation of his 
complaint. But he first looked to discuss the final response letter issued in November 2021 in 
January 2022, and this was followed by an email in February 2022 that detailed in length   
his concerns. I can also see that Mr P was told by FTR his complaint would be responded to 
by the end of March 2022. But FTR didnt send their second final response letter until August 
2022, several months later. 
As outlined above the final response letter sent by FTR in November 2021 clearly said if    
Mr P remained dissatisfied by their response to his complaint he could refer it to this service 
and the time he had to do this  May 2022. So, I think FTR did all Id expect of it in 
responding to M Ps complaint. I think it was clear from the November 2021 final response 
letter that Mr P had six months to bring the complaint to us. And Mr P after FTR hadnt 
responded to his lengthy email by March 2022 could have referred his complaint to us as it 
was within the six-month time allowed. As he didnt bring his complaint to us within the six 
months I cant consider this complaint. 
The rules do allow me to consider the merits of a complaint outside the time limits, where the
delay is due to exceptional circumstances. DISP 2.8.4 G gives an example of exceptional
circumstances where a complainant has been or is incapacitated. Mr P hasnt shown that he 
was or had been incapacitated. So, I dont consider there to have been any exceptional 
circumstance that prevented him from bringing his complaint to us that would have allowed 
us to consider this complaint.
Im afraid I have no discretion to set aside the rules under which we operate. So, while Ive 
considered what hes told us, I think this complaint was referred to us outside of the time 
limits that apply. And as I cant see that this was due to any exceptional circumstances, 
were unable to consider it.
But I can consider any new complaint points addressed in the final response sent to Mr P by 
FTR in August 2022.
Mr P said hed spoken to FTR on several occasions and asked for updates about his claim 
with B. He said that a number of these discussions were made when FTR contacted him 
about their fee for his other successful claim and before his claim with B was resolved. FTR 
in their response said theyd searched for calls made to and from Mr Ps telephone number 
and had only traced a call made in July 2020. 
Mr P said during one of these calls hed told FTR that hed deal with his claim with B 
himself. And as such FTRs success fee wasnt justified. While Mr P complains that this 
hadnt been recorded, Ive considered what the impact of this would have been on Mr P. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt be 
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so. I can see 
from FTRs records that in March 2020, a letter of complaint and a PPI questionnaire were 
sent to B in support of Mr Ps mis-sold PPI claim that was submitted before the August 
2019 deadline. And Mr P was told that this had happened in July 2020. So, from FTRs 
records and Mr Ps account he couldnt have gone direct to B himself about a mis-sold PPI 
claim until after the August 2019 deadline had passed. And Mr P said B told him he was too 
late to bring a claim.
In November 2014 the Supreme Court made a decision in the case of Plevin v. Paragon
Personal Finance. They found that if a business had high levels of commission there was a
duty to disclose the commission, as it created an unfair relationship. These rules came intoforce on the 29 August 2017. So, when a PPI claim is made its considered whether the 
policy was mis-sold. But it should also be considered as to whether it was a Plevin 
complaint and any commission that had been paid looked at. And the compensation paid to 
Mr P by B was about unfair commission.
Its not in dispute that in August 2019 Mr P signed a LoA instructing FTR to act on his behalf. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions Mr P agreed to. They say:
"Where we believe that a PPI policy may have been mis-sold to you or is a Plevin eligible 
claim(s), we will submit a detailed claim to the Company and/or the FOS upon your 
instruction(s)." 
And FTRs records show they acted upon Mr Ps instructions and submitted his LoA before 
the August 2019 deadline to B. And followed this with a letter of complaint and PPI 
questionnaire in support of his claim in March 2020.
The terms and condition also say:
"You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter 
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received a 
reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr P cancelled the agreement within 14 days of the date he 
signed the LoA as FTRs records show they were updating Mr P about his claims after this 
period had ended.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the 
cooling off period, however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a 
claim our fee will be due.
So, whether Mr P had told FTR he was going direct to B or not I dont think this would have 
had any impact on Mr P as he was too late to bring a claim himself. And any cancellation 
would have been after the 14 day cooling off period, so FTRs fee would still have been 
justified as Mr P received compensation for a claim theyd submitted.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that it was several months after hed received his redress 
from B for unfair commission that FTR asked him to pay their success fee. Mr B received 
his compensation from B in October 2020 but FTR werent made aware that the claim was 
successful until August 2021. FTR terms and conditions say:
"The Company may contact You directly and You will inform FTR promptly of this and any 
relevant matters affecting Your Claim(s)."  
I havent seen any evidence that Mr P told FTR that his claim with B was now resolved 
when he received his compensation even though I can see that FTR were still updating him 
about his claims. 
The agreement Mr P had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means FTR 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. And 
the fee was dependent on whether the claim was successful or not. Mr Ps claim with B 
was successful. And it was FTR that had submitted the claim to B before the August 2019 
deadline.Mr P said FTR had been more interested in taking on new work rather than handling his 
claim with B. I can see that FTR progressed Mr Ps successful claim with his other lender 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service to complain that the redress had been mis-calculated. 
From FTRs records I can see that Mr P was kept updated about the progress of this, and a 
final decision was made by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I cant see there was any 
detriment to Mr P or that this affected his claim with B.
I know Mr P will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant say FTR had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I would expect FTR to treat Mr P with respect and consideration in seeking 
payment of their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman