DRN-3436195
The complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds, which covers his buildings and 
contents amongst other things.
He made a claim in November 2019 after an accident with some hot logs which destroyed a 
rug and damaged his living room flooring. Lloyds accepted the claim and sent a surveyor to 
assess the damage.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill briefly summarise 
things here, but Id ask both parties to accept that Ive taken into account all of the evidence 
and information theyve provided.
In essence. Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds have said theyll pay for replacement of his living 
room flooring but wont cover replacing the flooring in his hallway. Hes also unhappy that the 
claim is still on-going and has been significantly delayed. And he says Lloyds 
communications and customer service have been poor at times.
Mr C made a complaint to Lloyds about those issues. They accepted there had been poor 
customer service and a lack of effective communication at times. This included quoting the 
wrong excess to Mr C initially. And they paid Mr C £250 compensation for his trouble and 
upset. But they maintained that they wouldnt cover the flooring in the hallway.  
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more to put things right for Mr C.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants Lloyds to pay 
for the flooring in his hallway. And hes raised further issues about the extent to which Lloyds 
will cover redecoration in his home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset about what issues I can cover in this decision. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute resolution (or DISP) rules set out the way 
in which our service is allowed to operate.
In brief, we cant consider a complaint against a financial business unless and until that 
business has had the chance to consider (and possibly resolve) that compliant themselves. 
That is, unless the business agrees that we can look into such matters.
Mr Cs complaint to Lloyds didnt address the issues around redecoration of parts of his 
home, which he says were smoke-damaged by the accident. And Lloyds didnt agree to us 
looking into those issues. So, I cant consider those particular issues as part of this decision.
Weve made Mr C aware that he may if he wishes raise a further complaint with Lloyds about 
those specific issues. And if he isnt happy with Lloyds final response, he can then bring his 
complaint to our service.
So, I can consider here the issues raised in Mr Cs complaint to Lloyds. And they were:
poor customer service;
delays in the claim being progressed;  
Lloyds decision that they wouldnt cover the replacement of the flooring in the 
hallway.
Ill deal with those issues in that order.
Poor customer service
Both parties are aware of the issues around customer service. In brief, Mr C says hes been 
misled at times by what hes been told  about the excess and about what would be 
covered. He says appointments have been made by contractors and then not kept. And he 
says its been difficult to deal with different agents at Lloyds, who may not have told him the 
same thing.
Lloyds have recognised that things havent been handled in the way they would want. And 
theyve compensated Mr C by paying him £250 for his trouble and upset. Im satisfied, given 
the nature of the errors  and the fact that they were usually put right fairly swiftly  thats 
sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset Mr C suffered as a result of those errors 
specifically.
Delays in the progression of the claim
The claim is still live, more than two years after it was made. So, on the face of it, there are 
some major delays here. However, I have to consider the extent to which any errors or 
omissions on the part of Lloyds have led to those delays.
The claim has been handled through various national and local lockdowns for COVID-19. I 
cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for any delays that caused  for example,  when 
contractors werent able to visit Mr Cs home.
I would also say that the main reason the claim hasnt been settled  some time ago  is that 
there remains a fundamental disagreement between Lloyds and Mr C about what the 
outcome should be.
If Lloyds stance on those issues was mistaken  and that had caused the delays  I would 
certainly be asking Lloyds to accept responsibility for the delays. In other words, if theyd 
wrongly declined part of the claim and caused Mr C to take issue with that, then they would 
have to accept that theyd been the obstruction which caused the delay.
However, I dont think Lloyds are mistaken about the main issue which has held up this claim 
 the disagreement about the hallway flooring. Ill come to this issue below and explain why I 
take that view. But suffice to say for now that I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for the major part of the delays in this claim. The majority of the delay is due to 
the disagreement about how the claim should be settled.
The customer service issues noted in the section above have no doubt led to some minor 
delays in the progression of the claim, but I think the £250 compensation already paid to 
Mr C adequately reflects and distress and inconvenience hes suffered solely as a result of 
those issues.
The hallway flooring 
Mr Cs policy includes an optional addition to cover him for replacement of matching sets. 
This means Lloyds will cover the cost of replacing an undamaged item, if there is a 
successful claim for damage to another item which forms part of a matching set.
So, if Mr Cs hallway flooring is part of matching set including the damaged living room 
flooring, hed be entitled to think that Lloyds will pay for its replacement.
We take the view that, in most cases, if carpets or other flooring run continuously between 
different parts of the home, then they should be considered a matching set. This is often the 
case in open plan areas, where what might have been different rooms at one time are 
essentially now part of a single space.
However, we think that generally will not apply where there is a division between two rooms. 
Often, such divisions might be formed by door bars, for example  that is, thin strips of some 
kind of material which go across a doorway to mark a boundary between two rooms.
In that case, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect an insurer to cover replacement of an 
entirely undamaged carpet or floor which was essentially in a different room or area to the 
carpet or floor which had been damaged.
We have photographs of the doorway between Mr Cs living room and his hallway. It is, 
clearly, a doorway  its marked by a door frame. But the important thing, as far as this 
decision is concerned, is that there is a small difference in height between the floor in the 
hallway and the floor in the living room. The step between the two areas is covered, across 
the full width of the doorway, by a strip of wood which is triangular in profile.
Obviously, its not always entirely clear cut as to whether one area of floor space is divided 
from another. But in this case, Im satisfied that the two areas of flooring have a clear 
dividing line, marked and set out by the wooden bar which goes across the floor from one 
side of the door frame to the other.
That being the case, I cant conclude that its unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to decline 
cover for the undamaged hallway flooring in this particular case.
Summary
Im satisfied the £250 compensation paid to Mr C by Lloyds is sufficient given the degree of 
trouble and upset hes been caused by the minor delays for which Lloyds are solely 
responsible and by their failings in customer service.
Im not going to hold Lloyds responsible for the long delays in settling this claim, which are 
primarily a function of the disagreement between Lloyds and Mr C about what should be 
covered by the claim. 
And I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for Lloyds to decline cover for Mr Cs undamaged hallway flooring, given the evidence and information available. Im satisfied the living room 
and the hallway are separate and clearly divided areas.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman