DRN-4044503
The complaint
Mr H complains about the amount Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) paid in 
settlement of a claim under his travel insurance policy. Mr H also complains about Great 
Lakes delays in dealing with his claim. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr H held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
Mr H was on holiday abroad and his flight back to the UK was cancelled due to industrial 
action. Mr H booked a new flight home for the following day from a different airport, with a 
different airline and made a claim for his additional expenses under his policy with Great 
Lakes. 
Over three months later, after asking for information a few times, Great Lakes paid Mr H 
£35. Great Lakes said this was calculated as £35 per full 12 hours of delay, from Mr Hs 
original scheduled departure time to the time his new flight departed. Mr H complained to 
Great Lakes and said the full amount of his claim should be paid. Mr H also complained 
about Great Lakes delays in dealing with his claim. 
Great Lakes responded to say Mr Hs policy didnt provide cover for the payment of 
additional expenses in circumstances such as this, but it apologised to Mr H for its delays in 
dealing with the matter. Following further correspondence between Great Lakes and Mr H, 
Great Lakes offered to pay an additional fixed benefit calculated from Mr Hs original 
scheduled departure time until the first available flight offered by Mr Hs original airline 
(which Mr H says was around four days later), on the production of evidence of when this 
first available flight would have been. 
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. He said that Mr Hs policy excluded cover for 
additional expenses arising from travel delay. He noted Great Lakes offer but said that Mr H 
would need to provide evidence to show how long he would otherwise have been delayed 
had he not booked the first available flight with a different airline. Our investigator 
recommended that Great Lakes should pay Mr H £150 compensation for its delays in settling 
his claim. 
Mr H accepted our investigators opinion but Great Lakes didnt. Great Lakes instead offered 
to pay Mr H £50 compensation. As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has now 
been referred to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also 
say insurers must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account when 
making my final decision about Mr Hs complaint.
I understand that Mr Hs original return flight was cancelled, but delay is the wording used in 
Mr Hs policy documentation to cover situations like this. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy provide for the payment of a fixed benefit for travel 
delay in certain circumstances. Additional expenses are specifically excluded (other than in a 
limited number of specific scenarios, which Mr Hs claim doesnt fall into), so the costs which 
Mr H is claiming for arent covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
I understand Mr H says his travelling companion had their claim for similar costs paid by a 
different insurer. But the level of cover provided under Mr Hs travelling companions cover 
may have differed to the level of cover available under this policy and, when making my final 
decision, I can only consider the terms of the contract which were in force between Great 
Lakes and Mr H. 
Great Lakes seems to have accepted that Mr H is entitled to a fixed benefit payment for 
travel delay and has calculated this from the date and time of the original return flight to the 
date and time of the return flight which Mr H actually departed on. Great Lakes offered to 
reconsider its calculation if Mr H could provide evidence of the next available return flight 
which his original airline was able to offer to him  which I understand was several days 
later. I think this is a reasonable position for Great Lakes to take. I understand Mr H doesnt 
have evidence of the next available return flight which his airline could have offered to him, 
but if Mr H can locate this then he can send it directly to Great Lakes to consider. 
So, this means I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it settled Mr 
Hs claim. 
However, having had regard to the length of time this took and the impact on Mr H, I agree 
with our investigator that a payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted in the circumstances. 
Mr H first submitted his claim to Great Lakes in July 2022. Mr H was asked for further 
information in September 2022, which Im satisfied its likely hed already submitted to Great 
Lakes. Great Lakes then asked Mr H for more information in October 2022. I think, if Great 
Lakes had identified that this information was required earlier then its likely that Mr Hs claim 
could have been settled sooner. Overall, it took Great Lakes more than three months to 
settle this claim. Considering the nature of the claim, I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
Great Lakes handled the matter promptly. I also dont think Great Lakes provided 
appropriate information to Mr H about the progress of his claim. 
Im satisfied that the delays, the lack of updates and the response which Mr H says he 
received from Great Lakes when he chased the matter in August 2022, caused Mr H distress 
and inconvenience. Great Lakes has acknowledged there were delays and apologised to Mr 
H for these. Great Lakes has subsequently offered to pay Mr H £50 compensation, but Im 
satisfied that further compensation is warranted in the circumstances. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to pay Mr H a 
total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes the offer of £50 which Great Lakes has already made.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE must put things right by paying Mr H a total of £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE in part, and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman