DRN-3992810
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly provided him with a credit 
card and a limit increase.
What happened
Mr B took out an Aqua branded credit card in August 2017. The limit was £600 and was 
increased to £1,600 in July 2020. In summary, Mr B says that NewDay lent to him 
irresponsibly because he already had lots of existing debt. He also says NewDay increased 
his credit limit at a time when he had multiple payday loans and his overall credit card 
borrowing had increased. 
NewDay reviewed Mr Bs complaint. In summary, based on the information it had gathered, 
it said Mr B had met its acceptance criteria. So, it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly.
Mr B remained unhappy with NewDays response and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought that the credit limit increase in 
July 2020 to £1,600 shouldnt have been provided. Around the same time, and seemingly 
independent of our investigators view, NewDay got in touch with our service to make an 
offer. As I understand it, NewDay also thought that the credit limit increase which took place 
in July 2020 shouldnt have been provided. So, NewDay calculated what it referred to as 
proportionate interest and refunded this onto Mr Bs card.
Shortly after this, Mr B said the refund he received from NewDay was less than he had 
expected, and not what our investigator recommended in her view. Following some further 
conversation, our investigator explained that the redress award she had recommended in 
her view was unfortunately incorrect. The view had recommended that all the interest 
charged from the date of the limit increase should be refunded. However, the redress 
NewDay had paid following its offer  a proportionate refund of interest from the point of the 
limit increase on the amount that had been irresponsibly lent  was what she had intended to 
recommend and was in line with this services approach. She also clarified that she thought 
that the initial credit limit of £600 wasnt irresponsibly provided. 
Mr B remained unhappy and said the amount hed received wasnt what hed agreed to 
when he accepted the investigators view. Mr B also then said that if NewDay had decided 
not to increase his limit in July 2020, it should have realised he was struggling financially 
around this time, and should have stopped charging him interest from that point. So, Mr B 
thought that the redress our investigator initially recommended was correct.
I wrote to Mr B to informally explain why I thought NewDays method of calculating the 
interest refund was in line with our approach. Mr B disagreed with this, partly because he 
received different redress on another case. So, he asked me to issue a formal decision. He 
also later said that NewDay issued a default notice and he thought it would soon report a 
default on his credit file, which he would like to be backdated to the point of the limit 
increase. He asked me to consider this in my decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said, in summary, and amongst other points, that I 
was minded to agree with our investigator that the initial credit limit of £600 wasnt 
irresponsibly lent. I explained that both parties agreed the credit limit increase that took place 
in July 2020 shouldnt have happened, which NewDay decided to make an offer for. So, the 
issue which remained was appropriate redress. In reviewing this, whilst NewDay had 
correctly approached the interest calculations, I thought it had missed some fees and 
charges from its proposed redress figure. I also addressed Mr Bs concern around financial 
difficulties, but I didnt think there was enough to suggest NewDay would have necessarily 
been aware of the difficulties Mr B says he was facing around the time. 
Mr B responded to the provisional decision and said he didnt have any further evidence or 
arguments that he wanted to be considered for this complaint. NewDay responded to the 
provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties didnt have any further comments or evidence to provide in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the opinion I expressed in that decision. 
Ive explained my reasoning below.
Our investigator didnt think the initial credit limit of £600 was irresponsibly lent. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I think this finding is reasonable, given that the information NewDay had 
suggested that it was likely Mr B could sustainably repay the borrowing within a reasonable 
period of time. And, as I understand it, neither of the parties have disagreed with this finding. 
Both parties are also in agreement that the credit limit increase which took place in July 2020 
shouldnt have happened, and NewDay decided to make an offer for this. Therefore, the crux 
of the issue which remains for me to decide is appropriate redress in the circumstances.
Mr B has also raised a new concern since the complaint was referred to our service. He has 
told us that hes received a default notice and is concerned that NewDay will record a default 
on his credit file. He has asked for this to be backdated to July 2020. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr Bs concern here, Im mindful that the default hasnt yet been recorded. I cant make any 
findings on something that hasnt yet happened or been complained about. But I would 
expect NewDay to keep this services approach to recording adverse information in mind 
when moving forward. 
NewDays approach to redress
When the case was originally reviewed by our investigator, the redress they initially 
recommended included an error. Whilst the findings outlined that the credit limit increase 
shouldnt have been provided in July 2020, they incorrectly recommended that all interest 
and charges applied since July 2020 should be refunded. However, this would not have 
been reflective of the correct redress offered if we found that the credit limit increase 
shouldnt have happened. 
To explain further, where a firm increases the credit limit on a facility when it should have 
realised additional credit was unaffordable, as far as is possible wed expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now, if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on 
that additional credit. So, wed ask a lender to refund any interest and charges it added as a 
result of the credit limit increase which shouldnt have been provided.Therefore, the correct redress, in relation to interest, should have been to recommend that 
from July 2020 onwards, interest is only charged on the first £600 outstanding, to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. The correct redress was 
later clarified in subsequent correspondence. And NewDay appears to have processed its 
calculations around interest in line with this.
I note Mr B disagrees with this, partly because he received different redress on another 
case. However, I cant comment on why one of our investigators has recommended different 
redress on a different case. My role is to review the redress in the circumstances of this 
individual case. And I am not bound by what an investigator or ombudsman may have 
decided on another case. Having reviewed matters, Im satisfied NewDays approach to the 
interest calculation is the correct one when we find that a credit limit increase shouldnt have 
been offered for the reasons Ive explained above. And, as I understand it, NewDay appears 
to have followed this approach when calculating and paying Mr B the relevant interest. 
Since the case has been with this service, it has become clear that whilst NewDays 
approach to calculating the interest refund was in line with this services approach, there 
appear to have been some fees that hadnt been refunded. Following some further 
conversations with NewDay, it accepts that some fees were missing from its original refund. 
NewDay has since provided this service with a revised redress figure of £173.39. However, 
Ive reviewed the figures and Im not persuaded this includes all the fees and charges that 
had been applied to balances above £600, and Im persuaded that there is £3 missing from 
NewDays calculations. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I was minded to direct NewDay to pay the full 
amount it has identified, as well as £3, less the amount it has already refunded. I also said 
that if NewDay thought my interpretation of the calculations wasnt correct here, it should 
respond to the provisional decision explaining why. NewDay said it had nothing further to 
add upon receipt of the provisional decision. Therefore, I direct NewDay to process redress 
in line with the outlined recommendation  Ill expand on this further in the decision. 
Financial difficulties
Following our investigators clarification of the correct redress of interest charged, Mr B then 
raised another argument about why he thought the original redress offer should apply. He 
said that NewDay should have been aware that he was struggling financially at the point it 
provided the credit limit increase in July 2020. So, he thinks it should have stopped charging 
him interest from that point onwards and therefore a refund of all interest and charges from 
July 2020 is the correct redress here.
I note that Mr B hasnt provided any evidence of this, other than his testimony. And, as I 
understand it, hes not saying he made NewDay aware of these difficulties around the time. 
So, Ive reviewed the information NewDay provided about the account, and Im not 
persuaded taking into account the information I have, that theres enough to suggest 
NewDay would have necessarily been aware of the difficulties Mr B says he was facing 
around the time. It follows that I dont think it treated him unfairly by not freezing the interest 
on the account at the point of the limit increase.
Fair compensation  what NewDay should do to put things right
As all parties are in agreement that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Bs credit limit 
above £600, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances 
which exceeded that limit. However, Mr B has had the benefit of all the money he spent on 
the account so I think he should pay this back.As it stands, Im not persuaded that NewDay has covered all aspects of our usual redress 
recommendation. For instance, it hasnt yet paid the extra fees and charges that have been 
identified, along with the £3 I think it has missed from the calculations. So, for completeness, 
I direct NewDay to pay Mr B this additional amount, alongside the other aspects of redress 
outlined below, if it hasnt already done so.
Therefore, to put matters right, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £600.
If the rework results in a credit balance on the account, this should be refunded to 
Mr B along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. And, NewDay should remove any adverse 
information reported to Mr Bs credit file about this account after July 2020.
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after July 2020 in 
relation to the account should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require NewDay to take off tax from this interest. If it does, 
NewDay must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he should ask for 
one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, to put matters 
right as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman