DRN-2594792
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) recorded an entry about him on a fraud 
prevention database (CIFAS) in connection with a mortgage application. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr S applied for a business account but was declined. He looked into why this had 
happened and found that BOI made an entry on CIFAS about him in 2017 following a 
declined application for a buy-to-let mortgage. 
He complained to BOI who, on review, agreed to remove the marker but maintained that it 
was applied correctly - in line with the rules at the time. BOI said it entered the marker 
because the property was an unlicensed home in multiple occupation (HMO) and this was 
not disclosed clearly on the application form. It also said the property was being sold 
privately rather than through estate agents as Mr S said. 
Mr S said he had no knowledge that the house was an HMO and planned to let it as a single 
tenancy. 
Mr S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought it should be upheld and, 
as the marker had already been removed, recommended that BOI pay Mr S £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. Mr S didnt think this went far enough and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first thought about whether it was reasonable to apply the marker in 2017. CIFAS is an 
industry wide fraud prevention agency and its main aim is to do just that  prevent fraud. In 
2018, it published principles for its members to help with the accuracy of cases filed and 
ensure the proportionate use of personal data following new legislation. There are eight 
principles for members that can be found on the CIFAS website. 
BOI says that as the application was made in 2017, before these principles were introduced, 
it correctly applied the marker in line with the rules at the time. But  due to the serious 
consequences that an entry can have - there was still the need to have sufficient and 
relevant evidence to substantiate a reasonable suspicion that fraud had been committed or 
attempted, before making an entry.  
Here, BOI said it applied the marker as there were discrepancies in the application and the 
valuation report showed that the property was an unlicensed HMO. I agree that there were 
discrepancies in the application, but having carefully considered the information provided, I 
think BOI could have asked for more information or carried out further checks before 
applying the marker. 
Mr S has explained that there was confusion and that he had viewed a property across the 
road to this one. That property had already been sold and so he was told about the 
opportunity to buy this one but didnt realise that it was an HMO. I think thats plausible.
And regardless, it wasnt Mr S but the seller of the property who was using it an unlicensed 
HMO. Theres no evidence to show that Mr S intended to do the same.
I dont think the discrepancies in the application and conflicting information on the valuation 
report are enough here. And so Im not persuaded that BOI had sufficient evidence or 
reasonable grounds to suspect an attempted fraud. It follows that without this  the marker 
should not have been entered. 
BOI has also said that an HMO would have been in breach of its lending criteria for buy-to-
let properties in 2017 and that at the time it didnt accept private sales. That may be the case 
and valid reasons as to why the application was declined. Its for BOI to set its lending 
criteria and ultimately decide whether to lend. But that shouldnt have any bearing on 
whether a marker with a fraud prevention agency such as CIFAS is made or not. 
Im not persuaded in the circumstances that it was fair for BOI to make a report. 
As the marker has now been removed, Ive thought about whether BOI need to do anything 
further to put things right.  
Putting things right
Mr S has said that he has direct and indirect losses due to this entry which amount to around 
£15,000. Most notably hes said he incurred business losses as his application for a 
coronavirus bounce back business loan was declined due to the marker. As our investigator 
has explained, the marker was logged against Mr S as an individual and not against his 
businesses. Because of this, Ill only be considering any losses and distress suffered by 
Mr S directly, not any business damages. 
Mr S says he hasnt been able to re-mortgage on some of his properties because of this and 
as a result is paying high interest rates as he has been classified as high risk. But I cant be 
certain that this was as a direct result of the CIFAS marker.
There could be other reasons for the decision to decline an application to re-mortgage. Im 
also aware that the databases guidance for members is that a marker should be a reason 
for a lender receiving an application to make its own enquiries and that it should not be 
automatically declined due to the presence of a marker. Mr S and his broker could get in 
touch with his lenders to discuss the situation. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr S has suffered financial loss as a direct result 
of the presence of the marker. 
But I do think Mr S has been distressed by the discovery of the marker and had to take the 
time and effort to raise a complaint before it was removed. With this in mind, Ive thought 
carefully about the level of compensation I think BOI should pay for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Having considered everything thats happened here, Im satisfied that £250 is a reasonable 
and fair amount of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset caused by applying this entry. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman