DRN-4091232
The complaint
Ms B complains about the value UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Car Insurance 
(UKI) gave her for her van following a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering her van. 
Her van was damaged and she claimed from UKI. 
UKI assessed the van as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the van a 
write-off and assessed its market value as £8,650 plus VAT.
Ms B didnt agree with this valuation, and she complained. UKI increased its valuation to 
£10,00 plus VAT, so £12,000 in total. 
Ms B remained unhappy. She says she couldnt buy a replacement van for that amount and 
wants a higher valuation.
UKI said itd used trade guides to arrive at a value for the van and had offered Ms B an 
amount higher than the top values from the trade guides. It had used two guides which gave 
net values of:
Company A: £7,122
Company B: £9,173
Ms B remained unhappy with UKIs valuation and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. She looked at the trade 
guides and said the amount offered by UKI was in line with the approach taken by this 
service. 
Ms B didnt agree with the view. She says she isnt able to buy a replacement van for UKIs 
valuation.
She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her evidence I can see Ms B has also complained about delays in UKIs service. I cant 
see that shes taken that complaint to UKI, or received its final response, so Im unable to 
consider it here.
Having read the file of evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive said above about how UKI arrived at the valuation of Ms Bs van.
Its approach fits with this services approach to valuations. We dont provide valuations for 
vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Ms Bs van and Ive found these net values (so, before the addition of 
VAT), provided by two different trade guides, for the month her van was damaged, which are 
based on a vehicle with the same specification and mileage:
Company A: £7,122
Company B: £8,230
Ive looked at UKIs valuation of her van and I can see it has offered in excess of the highest 
valuation of the four listed above. 
In its evidence it says there is a limited amount of evidence for these vans in the market, 
which is why it offered this higher amount. 
I think its offer, and the approach it has taken, is fair and reasonable.
Ms B has also mentioned that the van was subject to a subsidy when it was purchased. Ms 
B has clearly benefitted from this subsidy which lowered the price of the van she bought, and 
now the van has been written off she seems to be indicating that this subsidy needs to be 
taken into account. 
But incentives like these are generally part of an effort to drive vehicle sales, so they arent 
part of the consideration for a used vehicles market value which may be derived from 
various sales figures from dealers and private sales. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to ask UKI to pay an extra amount towards a replacement vehicle 
when I already think its offer is fair, and when Ms B has already had the benefit of the 
subsidy in the past.
UKIs offer is higher than the valuations from the trade guides so it follows that I think UKIs 
offer is fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman