DRN-3949810
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In April 2020 Barclays provided Mr D with a loan of £12,300 over 60 months with monthly 
repayments of around £236.
Mr D says Barclays lent irresponsibly to him. He says he wanted to get a loan to consolidate 
his overdraft, loan and credit card debt to make things more affordable for him but says that 
Barclays refused this and instead offered him a loan to pay off his overdraft. Mr D says the 
new loan increased his monthly outgoings by £236 which caused him financial difficulties.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Barclays said it hadnt lent irresponsibly. It said the loan 
was the best option for Mr D at the time so that he could repay his overdraft of around 
£12,300, the charges for which were about to increase from £90 per month to £296 per 
month. Barclays said if Mr D hadnt taken out the loan, he wouldve still owed £12,300 on his 
overdraft and wouldve been liable for interest of £296 every month, which was more than 
the loan repayment of £236.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
I looked at the checks that Barclays had carried out. These showed that Mr D had an income 
of around £3600 each month, and essential outgoings or around £2300. This left disposable 
income of around £1300. The checks also showed that Mr D had an outstanding credit card 
balance of around £24,000 at the time of the application and unsecured debt of around 
£12,300.
I reviewed Mr Ds bank statements and found that Mr Ds outgoings were averaging £2267. 
His credit commitments were around £1400. On the face of it, this left Mr D with a small 
amount of disposable income. However, when I looked at Mr Ds outgoings more closely, it 
became apparent that a significant amount of the monthly expenditure could be classed as 
non-essential. Taking this into account, this left Mr D with sufficient disposable income to 
afford the loan.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence they wanted to rely on or 
arguments they wished to raise. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Ive reviewed everything again but my 
decision hasnt changed. I still think the checks carried out by Barclays were reasonable and 
proportionate and that the decision to lend was fair. I dont think Barclays lent irresponsibly 
to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman