DRN-3150542
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK PLC blocked access to his Bounce 
Back Loan, before terminating and recalling it.
What happened
Mr D banked with Santander and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. 
His application was approved and a loan of £33,000 was drawn down on 4 May.
Mr D utilised some of the loan funds that day, making two faster payments totalling £21,500. 
He made a further payment of £1,500 on 23 May. 
On 27 May, Santander blocked Mr Ds account while it carried out a review. Following its 
review, Santander explained to Mr D that it had a number of concerns as to his eligibility for 
the loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules and how the loan funds had been used. 
So it asked Mr D for evidence of his trading activity and turnover, including tax returns and 
bank statements for accounts held elsewhere.
Mr D provided some information to Santander but ultimately the bank didnt think that he had 
demonstrated his eligibility for the loan. It wrote to Mr D on 21 February 2021 explaining that 
under the Scheme rules, it was not permitted to borrow more than 25% of the businesss 
annual turnover and that loan funds had to be used for business purposes. As it didnt think 
Mr D had evidenced any turnover and thought the money utilised to date hadnt been used 
for business purposes, it said he wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan  so the loan was in 
default.
Santander subsequently terminated and recalled Bounce Back Loan. The bank removed the 
remaining loan funds from Mr Ds account on 7 June 2021 and closed the account 
thereafter.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She thought the bank had given Mr D reasonable time and opportunity to provide 
appropriate evidence of his eligibility for the loan, but hed not provided tax returns as 
requested  and the bank had legitimate queries over the statements hed given, and which 
hed not addressed. So she thought Santander had acted reasonably in recalling the loan in 
the circumstances. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said that he had a legitimate business, which 
had been active since 1997  its just that his main business account wasnt held with 
Santander. He maintained that he met the eligibility criteria, as shown by the banks initial 
acceptance of his application, and had answered all of the banks questions. And he said 
that it was permitted under the Scheme rules to transfer loan funds to personal accounts. He 
suspected that the bank had only acted in the matter it did due to concerns over one of the 
payees hed sent money to, which he suggested had no foundation.
So with no resolution, Mr Ds complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. Mr D applied to Santander for a loan of £33,000, 
so he needed to have a turnover of £132,000. The banks record of his application shows 
that he declared a turnover for 2019 of £137,000. So Santander approved the application on 
this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the eligibility criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds having 
been utilised, Santander was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under 
review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think it didnt anything 
wrong in conducting a review of the loan or the account. A block was applied to the latter in 
line with the applicable terms and conditions.
Mr D is concerned that the chain of events that followed were triggered only by concerns on 
the banks part with one of the payees to whom he sent funds. Santander has already 
confirmed as much to him and I dont think this was an unreasonable course of action given 
the information it had. But regardless of what triggered the review, the bank was then 
prompted to look at the Bounce Back Loan application  and its legitimate concerns as to 
Mr Ds eligibility were reasonable grounds to keep the account blocked pending further 
investigation (particularly given that the account balance comprised only the loan funds and 
nominal interest on those funds).
Santander proceeded to review Mr Ds eligibility for the loan, ultimately deciding that this 
couldnt be confirmed as it couldnt see any turnover for his business. I think the banks 
decision on this was reasonable. I say this because:
While Mr D was an existing personal customer of Santanders, there was no 
business activity going through his accounts.
Mr D hasnt provided a copy of his tax returns to verify the turnover figure he stated. 
This would seem to be the most conclusive way of evidencing the true position  and 
is something that, under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, lenders are asked to 
obtain where the applicant doesnt hold a business account with the lender. But Mr D 
has declined the banks requests  and ours  for a copy of these documents.
Although Mr D says he used accounts held elsewhere for his business, the bank had 
legitimate concerns over the validity of statements that he provided to evidence this. 
Most notably, transactions dated 5 May 2020 inexplicably appeared on a statement 
that purportedly covered the period 1 December to 31 December 2019. Mr D hasnt 
been able to explain this discrepancy and has declined the banks requests for his 
authority to liaise with the account provider about the matter.
Mr D hasnt provided any other documentary evidence that evidences the turnover 
figure he provided in his application for the Bounce Back Loan.
I also think Santander gave Mr D sufficient time and opportunity to demonstrate his eligibility. 
The bank wrote to him on a number of occasions, clearly setting out the basis of its questions and what evidence it would need from Mr D to consider releasing the remaining 
funds. It was only after several months  and a number of requests for the information as 
noted above  that the bank made the decision to terminate the loan.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Santander was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This 
included where any of the information provided within the application is found to have been 
misleading, incomplete or incorrect. As the bank had reasonable grounds to consider that 
the turnover figure Mr D provided was incorrect, I think it was entitled to terminate the loan. 
The bank was also entitled to recover the funds from Mr Ds account in the manner it did, in 
accordance with its right of set off under the applicable terms and conditions.
Santander also had concerns over how Mr D had used the funds. I think it was reasonable 
for it to follow up on those concerns in the manner it did given the information it had about 
the payments. While there may not have been any prohibition on transferring funds to 
personal accounts, there was on using the loan for personal purposes. But ultimately, the 
fact that Mr D was unable to demonstrate that he had the requisite turnover to be eligible for 
the loan was sufficient grounds for the bank to take the action it did. So there is no need for 
me to look into this further  as any finding I might make on this aspect would not lead me to 
a different conclusion.
Looking at everything then, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it terminated 
and recalled the loan from Mr D  so Im not requiring the bank to take any action in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman