DRN-2316918
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration.
Draftys records show that Mr R applied for £1,400 as a loan. Mr R declared a monthly 
income of £1,200 with outgoings of £325. The credit facility with a limit of £1,020 was 
arranged for Mr R in July 2018.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr R. On the assumption that Mr R drew down the full £1,020 on 
the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then the total amount 
payable would have been just under £1,382. This would have equated to repayments of 
about £115 a month.  
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Rs salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement detailed in clause 6 
which I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Rs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
Drafty has sent to us documents about Mr Rs account but has made no submissions to us 
and has not sent Mr R a final response letter. So Drafty has not explained its own view in 
relation to Mr Rs complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial approval for 
the account in July 2018 was satisfactory. And that Drafty ought to have realised that Mr R 
was struggling and so he thought that it should put things right from 8 July 2019.
Mr R has not disagreed with all that our adjudicator had said. Drafty has not responded. The 
complaint remains unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at 
the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being 
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As Mr R has not objected to the adjudicators findings, it seems he is content with the 
original decision by Drafty to approve the credit facility for him. And in any event, having 
looked at all that Mr R has told us and Draftys information then I think that the initial credit 
facility approval was carried out after checks I would consider proportionate. And the limit 
approved was likely to have appeared serviceable and able to be repaid within a reasonable 
time.
Drafty had a regulatory obligation to monitor the account for signs of (or possible) financial 
difficulties. I can see from the records of the account sent to us by Drafty that Mr R often 
repaid the minimum sum due each month and then  if the credit facility allowed  hed draw 
down a few more pounds taking him close to the credit limit again. The credit limit was 
increased in January 2019 to £1,240. Mr R did not appear to make use of the additional 
funds available to him until June 2019. At which point he repaid £500 and drew down about 
£270. This withdrawal took Mr R back to being close to the credit limit. 
 
Had Drafty carried out the checks and reviewed Mr Rs use of the facility over the previous 
12 months, I think it would have realised that he was invariably at his credit limit. This meant 
that he had to repay the minimum amount each month, he was re-charged interest, then he 
drew down what margin of credit left available to him, and then the pattern was repeated. 
This meant that Mr R made little progress at repaying the capital sums he had borrowed. It 
seems that Mr R was paying to service the debt rather than making any headway into 
reducing the principal sum borrowed. 
The statement dated 21 July 2019 shows that Mr R had a closing balance of just under 
£1,285 with £12 available to use and this was close to his credit facility limit. 
I think that by continuing to offer the credit facility, Mr R was exposed to additional interest 
and charges. And from the drawdowns after 8 July 2019, I think that Drafty should put things 
right. 
Emails between Mr R and Drafty
Ive seen a few screenshots of correspondence between the parties sent to us by Mr R. 
Recently I emailed Mr R about this and he has sent to me a few more emails from August 
and September 2020. From Drafty I have received a series of emails from around the time 
Mr R started the complaint with Drafty in January 2020. Having read these I do not think that they reveal poor complaint handling matters which is 
what Mr R complains about. In the early part of this year  2020 - once Drafty had identified 
Mr R with his former and pre-registered email address, and linked him with the account, it 
acknowledged his complaint and sent to him a reference number and its complaints handling 
procedure. 
That complaints procedure states that Drafty had eight weeks to reply and went on to explain 
that if he did not hear from it, he was able to refer the complaint to this service. This is as the 
rules for complaint handling say and Id expect to see that from Drafty. So I dont think it 
would have been unusual for Drafty to take several weeks to reply to his complaint and it 
would have been within the rules.  
Mr R says that Drafty ignored him or never replied  but  I have seen that Drafty did 
acknowledge his complaint (as explained earlier) and it did reply referring to Mr Rs email on 
17 February 2020. 
One possible explanation for what Mr R interprets as being poor service is this: Mr R 
alternated use of his old and new email addresses, and the new email address did not 
appear to have been linked to his account as was established in earlier email 
correspondence between the parties. So, continuing to use that new email address may 
have precipitated emails from Drafty which did not appear helpful to him, but may have been 
auto-generated because it was not an email address the Drafty system recognised. 
No final response letter was received by Mr R but he knew to refer his complaint to this 
service regardless of not having received it as that was included in the complaint procedure 
details Drafty had already sent to Mr R. While it was not ideal, I do not think its something 
I can decide was wrong. So, I am not persuaded that Drafty did anything wrong around the 
time of the complaint was started, and I do not think that Mr R was inconvenienced in that 
period.  
Mr R has said this in his complaint form: Ive asked them for help on a number of occasions 
and most emails are ignored. I have seen a couple of other emails from August and 
September 2020 which were sent to me recently, but I do not think that those demonstrate 
any inconvenience to Mr R, and do not indicate that he was ignored. Mr R has had many 
opportunities to send to us more evidence to demonstrate his issues surrounding the email 
correspondence between him and Drafty, but very little has been sent to us. 
On the evidence I have, after ample opportunities afforded to Mr R to expand on it, I do not 
uphold this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
Putting things right
Drafty should have ceased allowing Mr R to draw down on the facility from 8 July 2019 and it 
should put things right for Mr R by doing as set out below. 
I understand that there is an outstanding balance to pay. If Drafty has sold the outstanding 
debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take the following steps. If its not able 
to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below:
A) Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns 
taken from 8 July 2019;
B) Treat all payments Mr R has made towards his account since 8 July 2019 as though they 
had been repayments of outstanding principal;C) If at any point Mr R would have been in credit on the account from 8 July 2019 after 
considering the above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple
interest* calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date
the refund is made;
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds calculated as
part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then Drafty should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Mr R. If Drafty has previously written-off any principal,
then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it has already
written-off;
E) Drafty should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Rs credit
file from 8 July 2019;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman