DRN-1852412
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc and the service she received when she 
attempted to make a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) about previous accounts shed 
held with them.
What happened
Mrs K wanted to submit a DSAR to Clydesdale in order to retrieve information about 
accounts shed had. She was initially told that each statement would cost £5 each but would 
not be chargeable if they were printed out in her local branch.
Mrs K attended her local branch but didnt find this to be the case. After a wait to be seen, 
where she had her young daughter with her, Mrs K was told she would still be charged for 
the documents she wanted. Mrs K felt as though the branch were trying to make money out 
of her request. After further calls to Clydesdale, her DSAR was processed. But, the 
documents were sent to the incorrect address despite her providing her new one. This 
caused difficulties with her previous landlord. When calling Clydesdale to raise a complaint 
about all of the above issues, they continually asked to speak to Mrs K even though shed 
given them authority to deal with her husband as her representative.
Mrs K was unhappy with the level of service Clydesdale had provided so she continued to 
raise a complaint. She explained the inconvenience shed been caused in branch by them 
not having toilets available. This had meant her daughter had an accident during the time 
shed had to wait which had been stressful for her. She explained how her and her husband 
had been given conflicting information about how to make the DSAR, and this had meant 
theyd spent an unnecessary amount of time on phone calls. She was also unhappy that her 
documents were sent to her previous address and that this had left her open to identity 
fraud, as well as causing a difficult situation with her previous landlord. Finally, she was 
unhappy that Clydesdale had asked to speak to her each time her husband had called to act 
as her representative. So, she wants compensation to recognise the impact shed been 
caused.
Clydesdale upheld Mrs Ks complaint. They agreed theyd misinformed Mrs K about the cost 
of making a DSAR. They also agreed that the service Mrs K received in branch had fallen 
below the level theyd expect. They also admitted Mrs Ks address change hadnt been 
processed so her documents had been sent to an incorrect address. Finally, they agreed 
they couldve explained the written authority process to Mrs K and her husband sooner. To 
recognise these failings, they offered Mrs K a payment of £200. Mrs K didnt think this offer 
was a fair one, so referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that Clydesdale 
had failed to inform Mrs K correctly, and that Mrs K had been impacted by this. She also 
agreed that Clydesdale had made an error by sending the documents to the incorrect 
address. But, she explained that she was unable to compensate Mrs K for potential losses 
and as she hadnt been the victim of identify fraud, she couldnt offer an additional award for that. She also explained she wouldnt expect every branch to have a toilet available for 
customers so didnt think it was fair to say Clydesdale had done something wrong by not 
having one. So, it was her view that Clydesdales offer of £200 was a fair one to recognise 
the trouble and upset Mrs K had experienced and didnt think they needed to do anything 
further.
Mrs K, represented by her husband, didnt agree. She didnt think the £200 recognised the 
severity of the impact. Her husband explained that he had also been impacted as hed taken 
over dealings with Clydesdale due to Mrs Ks upset and he didnt think this had been 
acknowledged and considered. She also didnt agree that it was reasonable for the branch 
not to provide toilet facilities, explaining how she was pregnant and with a young child at the 
time. So, they thought a higher offer should be made. As Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware that Mrs K has been represented by her husband for much of the complaint. For 
ease of reference, I will refer to them both as Mrs K throughout the decision when 
discussing their comments.
First, I want to acknowledge the impact this complaint has had on Mrs K. Ive no doubt that 
shes been left frustrated and upset at the trouble shes had to go through to make what 
shouldve been a simple DSAR. Its not in dispute that Clydesdale made errors throughout 
this process, and this has been recognised by their offer of £200. For me to agree that an 
additional amount should be paid, Id have to be satisfied that this first offer was unfair or 
didnt consider certain aspects of the complaint. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
I understand Mrs Ks husband sees the issues raised as a joint complaint, as he handled 
matters as her representative. I do appreciate that Mrs Ks husband wouldve spent time 
speaking to Clydesdale and wouldve no doubt have been left frustrated himself. But, as Mrs 
Ks accounts were solely in her name, she was the only customer of Clydesdale. Our service 
is unable to direct businesses to offer compensation for any impact caused to anyone other 
than their customer. So, Im only able to consider the impact Mrs K experienced herself 
directly. 
And, I do think Mrs K has been impacted by the numerous errors Clydesdale has admitted. 
Clydesdale has admitted they gave Mrs K the incorrect information on a number of phone 
calls, and this wouldve been confusing. It also meant Mrs K attended the branch expecting 
them to print her documents for free. So, when the branch explained they didnt offer this, I 
think this wouldve been upsetting as Mrs K made a conscious effort to visit the branch and 
wait to be seen. 
But, it wouldnt be fair for me to say Clydesdale acted unfairly by not having a public toilet 
available. It isnt a requirement for a branch to have these facilities and most banks dont 
provide this as part of their branch service. So, while I appreciate Mrs K wouldve found the 
wait with her young daughter stressful, and the situation that arose upsetting, Im unable to 
agree that was the fault of Clydesdale. So, I havent considered this when deciding what a 
fair offer should be.
I also agree that realising her documents had been sent to the wrong address would be worrying for Mrs K. I can understand why having to speak to a previous landlord couldve 
been intimidating and an unnecessary burden that she wouldnt have needed to undertake 
had Clydesdale updated their systems correctly. And I think this impact should be 
considered when deciding what a fair offer should be. But, Im only able to direct 
compensation for actual losses and impact. I understand Mrs Ks concerns that by the 
documents being sent to the wrong address shed been left exposed to potential identity 
fraud. But crucially, and maybe luckily, this didnt happen. So, this again isnt something Im 
able to consider when deciding what a fair offer should be.
Clydesdale has also admitted they failed to make Mrs K aware of a document she could sign 
to allow her husband to act as her representative. This mean that on each occasion he tried 
to call on her behalf, she needed to give Clydesdale verbal authority. And I think this 
wouldve been frustrating for Mrs K. Shed chosen for her husband to act as her 
representative due to the stress the complaint was having on her. And I think, by asking to 
speak to Mrs K each time her husband called, Clydesdale were adding this this frustration 
when shed taken reasonable steps to prevent any further impact. So, I think this should also 
be considered when deciding what a fair offer should be.
Having considered all of the above, and any other comments that Mrs K has provided in 
relation to the complaint, I think the offer of £200 offered by Clydesdale is a fair one to 
recognise the direct impact Mrs K has experienced. This offer falls in line with the amount I 
wouldve looked to award if no offer had been put forward. So, I dont think Clydesdale need 
to do anything further.
While I understand this isnt the decision Mrs K was hoping for, I hope Ive been able to 
explain why part of her complaint, and the impact her husband suffered, isnt able to be 
considered. Ive no doubt this has been an upsetting time and arose from a simple request 
but I hope this decision has been able to bring some closure to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outline above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman