DRN-2342932
The complaint
The executor of Mr Ts estate complains about Zenith Insurance plcs decision to turn down 
an accidental death insurance claim.
What happened
The late Mr T held a personal accident policy that paid benefit in the event of accidents 
resulting in hospitalisation or death. 
Mr T was admitted to hospital after a fall. He was discharged around four weeks later. The 
following month Mr T was again admitted to hospital and then sadly passed away in July 
2019.
The executor of Mr Ts estate made a claim under the policy for accidental death benefit. 
Zenith turned this down as it didnt think Mr T had died as a result of an accident. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the information on 
Mr Ts death certificate supported Zeniths view that Mr T hadnt died as a result of his 
accident. 
The executor (Mr Ts son) didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first of all like to offer my condolences to Mr Ts family. I know it must be difficult to read 
about the circumstances that led to Mr Ts death, so Ive tried to keep this as brief as I can. 
The policy says under what is covered?:
In the event of an accident within the property boundary of the insured property, occurring 
during the effective time, within the period of insurance and resulting in injury and 
hospitalisation or death, the insured person(s) will be entitled to the benefits
The policy defines accident as:
A sudden and unforeseen event which occurs within your property boundary after the policy 
has commenced, resulting in injury or death
The policy defines injury as:
any injury or deathoccurring within the property boundary which is caused by an accident 
and which within 13 weeks of the accident shall solely, directly and independently of any 
other cause, result in death or hospitalisation.
Ive considered what happened in the lead-up to Mr Ts death. 
On 10 April 2019 Mr T was admitted to hospital following a fall in his home. He had 
experienced a number of fractures, and remained in hospital until he was discharged on 10 
May 2019. Whilst he was in hospital, he had a chest infection and urine infection, and was 
treated with antibiotics. 
On 6 June 2019, Mr Ts GP recorded that he had a persistent dry cough, which hed had for 
a few weeks. The GP thought it could be related to the right pleural effusion that had been 
found on an x-ray, or the start of an infection.
Then on 13 June 2019, Mr T was admitted to hospital with an increased heart rate. He was 
discharged the following day.
Mr T was then admitted to hospital again on 15 June 2019 with shortness of breath. He was 
found to have a chest infection. Mr T remained in hospital until his death the following month.
Mr Ts death certificate shows that his immediate cause of death was infective endocarditis, 
and that the contributing conditions (though not part of the sequence leading to his death) 
were hypothyroidism, atrial fibrillation, and frailty.
Its clear that Mr T had an accident when he fell in his home, and experienced a number of 
fractures. However, Mr T then recovered sufficiently to be discharged from hospital. He then 
developed a cough, and was later confirmed to have a chest infection. 
Mr Ts son has explained that the hospital specialist advised him that the chest infection then 
travelled to Mr Ts heart. Mr T then died from infective endocarditis. 
I recognise that my decision will disappoint Mr Ts son, but given that Mr Ts injuries from the 
accident didnt cause his death, I have to conclude that Zenith were correct to decline the 
claim.
Zenith has paid hospitalisation benefit for the period that Mr T was in hospital between 10 
April and 10 May 2019 following his accident. I think that was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman