DRN-4225694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about their second charge mortgage (secured loan) with Blemain 
Finance Limited trading as Together. Theyre unhappy that their mortgage balance has 
increased and think Together isnt treating them fairly in threatening repossession. And they 
say they were unaware that the mortgage was taken out on interest only terms. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a second charge mortgage with Together in December 2006. They 
borrowed around £46,000 (including fees) over 25 years.
Since then Mr and Mrs S have struggled with the loan and repayments and its been in 
arrears for long periods. In 2022, Mr and Mrs S complained about the loan balance and 
about how Together had treated them.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were unaware the loan was taken out on interest only terms. 
They say theyve paid over £70,000 over the years  yet the balance is still higher than the 
original borrowing. They say the loan was irresponsibly lent, including because Mr S was 
disabled and restricted in his ability to work when the loan was taken out. Mr and Mrs S are 
struggling with the monthly payments. Together has offered to assist them with selling the 
property, but they dont want to do that. Mr S continues to be unwell, and they say the loan 
and their problems with it are having an adverse effect on both their mental health.
Together said any complaint about the sale of the loan or the circumstances in which it was 
lent was out of time. It said the mortgage balance was correct, and it had increased because 
of extra interest applied when payments were missed or made late. Together said it had 
wrongly applied £509.20 of fees relating to buildings insurance, and it refunded those fees 
together with interest of £1,654.23 to reduce the loan balance. It said it had applied other 
fees and charges to the loan balance, but they had been correctly applied in accordance 
with the terms and conditions. But it said that it hadnt always done enough to make sure 
Mr and Mrs S were aware of the impact of not making payments by their due date on the 
amount of interest they were charged, and it refunded a further £587.68 in additional 
interest. And it offered £150 compensation for delays in dealing with their complaint.
Together told Mr and Mrs S that because of additional interest and fees and charges, their 
balance had increased. It said that for their loan to be paid off by the end of the term, they 
would either need to pay a lump sum of around £23,000 to reduce the loan balance to what 
it ought to have been, or increase their monthly payments to around £750. Mr and Mrs S say 
this is not affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, so it came to me for 
a final decision to be made. I reached a different view, so I issued a provisional decision to 
allow the parties to have a further chance for comment before I make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I said:
The sale of the loan
There are limits on what I can consider as part of this complaint. Because of when 
the loan was taken out, and how much was borrowed, this is an unregulated loan. 
That means it isnt covered either by the mortgage rules or by the Consumer Credit 
Act.
Until 1 April 2014, the Financial Ombudsman Service could only consider complaints 
about Together relating to loans covered by the Consumer Credit Act. The rules 
changed on 1 April 2014, and since then weve been able to consider all Togethers 
lending, regulated or not. But because this is an unregulated loan, we can only 
consider things that have happened since 1 April 2014, not things that happened 
before that.
Secondly, there are time limit rules that apply to complaints. A complaint must be 
made within six years of the date of the event complained of  or, if that gives more 
time, within three years of the date the complainant knew or ought reasonably to 
have known of cause for complaint. Where a complaint is about matters older than 
that, a firm is entitled to refuse to consent to us looking at those things, and thats 
what Together has done here. I understand Mr and Mrs S dont think thats fair, but 
under the rules Together is entitled to withhold consent. We can however consider 
things that happened out of time if there are exceptional circumstances that explain 
why a complaint couldnt have been made in time.
What all that means is that anything that happened before 1 April 2014 doesnt fall 
within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service at all. And for things after 
that date, we can only consider them if the complaint was made in time.
We cannot therefore consider the lending decision, or whether Together lent 
responsibly, because that happened in 2006. But we can consider how Together 
treated Mr and Mrs S in the six years leading up to their complaint. I dont think the 
three year rule gives Mr and Mrs S more time, since they would have known of their 
difficulties at the time, and Together sent them regular statements showing the fees 
charged and how the balance was growing. And while Im sorry to hear of the health 
difficulties and other problems Mr and Mrs S have experienced, I dont think they 
amount to exceptional circumstances that prevented them complaining sooner than 
they did, because I can see they were in regular contact with Together and so could 
have complained if theyd decided to do so.
For all those reasons, in this decision Ill focus on how Together has treated Mr and 
Mrs S since 3 August 2015, which is six years before they first contacted Together 
about this complaint.
The nature of the loan
I will just address one issue, though. Mr and Mrs S say theyve only recently 
discovered that this is an interest only loan, and that should have been made clear to 
them from the start.
But this isnt an interest only loan. Its a repayment loan  meaning that, if Mr and Mrs 
S had managed to keep up with all their payments and Together hadnt added any 
other fees, the loan would be paid off by the end of the term in early 2032.
But Together has added various fees and charges over the years (though its since 
refunded some of them). And Mr and Mrs S have missed many payments, or made others late, over the years.
If the loan was on track, each month Mr and Mrs S would pay enough to cover that 
months interest, plus also repay some of the capital. If they miss a payment, 
however, they dont pay off the interest and instead it gets added to the loan balance. 
And they also dont pay off any of the capital. That means that next month the 
balance is higher  and so they are charged more interest. Unless they pay off that 
extra interest as well as the regular monthly payment, the balance will stay higher, 
and they will be charged more interest, each month after that too.
Where multiple payments are missed, even if theyre made up later, the result is that 
this extra interest can significantly increase the loan balance. And where fees are 
added to the balance, interest is charged on them too  which has the same effect.
But the monthly payment Mr and Mrs S are charged each month is based on the 
original loan profile  in other words, the amount it was calculated at the start theyd 
need to pay each month to clear the loan. Because the balance has increased in the 
meantime, that payment is no longer enough.
In fact, the situation Mr and Mrs S are now in is that the missed payments over the 
years, plus the fees, have had such an impact on the loan balance that the interest 
charged each month is more than the contractual monthly payment. Even if Mr and 
Mrs S made their required payment in full, the balance at the end of the month would 
still be higher than it was at the start.
So this is not an interest only loan. It never was. Its a repayment loan. But the 
balance isnt reducing each month  in fact, its going up  because of the impact of 
past missed payments and fees.
Thats why Together told Mr and Mrs S that to get the loan back on track and pay it 
off by the end of the term, theyd need either to pay a lump sum of £23,000, or 
increase their monthly payments to £750. At that point, the loan balance was £23,000 
higher than it should have been because of the missed payments , fees and 
additional interest. To get things back on track, Mr and Mrs S would need to pay that 
amount to reduce the balance to where it should be. Or, rather than paying that 
amount as a lump sum, they could increase their monthly payments to £750 a month 
for the rest of the term.
Whether that was a fair thing for Together to ask them to do is something Ill come on 
to shortly. But I first wanted to set out the facts and reasons behind why the loan was 
in that position and why Together said what it did, prompting Mr and Mrs S to 
complain.
Fees and charges in 2016
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, Together agreed to remove a substantial 
amount of fees, mostly related to insurance charges in the early days of the loan. As 
Ive explained, I can only look at things since August 2015.
Since then, Together has applied arrears charges of £50 in November and 
December 2016, January and February 2017, and monthly since April 2022.
Mr and Mrs S had arranged a payment plan in July 2016. They were in around 
£4,000 of arrears at this time. They agreed to pay their regular monthly payment of 
around £440, plus an additional £70 to reduce the arrears. Mr and Mrs S kept to this for the next few months. But in November they didnt make a payment.
Together tried to contact Mr and Mrs S without success a few times, but managed to 
speak to them on 29 November 2016. Mrs S explained that shed been in hospital 
and had reduced income as a result. She made a card payment of £500 (which 
cleared on 1 December) and agreed a new payment plan of £60 above the monthly 
payment from January 2017.
Payment was due on 5 January 2017, but Mr and Mrs S didnt make payment until 
14 January. A new payment plan was agreed on 30 January, with the first payment 
due by 5 February and then monthly thereafter. Mr and Mrs S made a further 
payment on 31 January and then again on 1 March.
It was fair to charge an arrears fee in November, since Mr and Mrs S didnt make a 
payment and Together tried to contact them and agree a new arrangement. 
However, they did make payments on 1 December, 14 January and 31 January (for 
February), in each case for more than the monthly payments. Im not persuaded it 
was fair to charge arrears fees in those months, and I think Together should refund 
those three fees, as well as interest charged on them.
The account since 2016
For some time Mr and Mrs S kept to the payment arrangement. They were paying 
around £500 a month, and as interest charged was around £460, the balance was 
gradually reducing, though not by enough to have paid it off within the existing term. 
At this time, interest was around £460 a month, so the capital was reducing by 
around £40 per month.
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs S missed a payment, and they only paid £50 in June and 
July 2018. But other than that, they kept to the arrangement until May 2020.
Mrs S contacted Together in May 2018, explaining that she was experiencing health 
problems and was trying to keep working even though her doctor recommended she 
didnt. Mr S was disabled and unable to work throughout this period. Together agreed 
a payment arrangement of £50 for June and July. Mrs S next spoke to Together in 
late August. She said it was a struggle but she would try to maintain the previous 
arrangement of £500 per month.
Mr and Mrs S missed payments due in May, June, July, August and September 
2020, then resumed making payments in October. But from October onwards, they 
only paid around £450 per month - £10 more than the interest being added. Mr and 
Mrs S maintained these payments until May 2021, after which they made no further 
payments before their complaint apart from a one-off sum of £200 in March 2022. 
Together didnt charge arrears fees in 2020, but charged £50 per month from April 
2022.
In May 2020, Mrs S contacted Together by email to say she was off work and didnt 
feel able to talk about her circumstances. Together agreed a coronavirus payment 
deferral for three months, and then a further month in August 2020 when Mrs S 
explained she had only recently returned to work and wasnt yet receiving full pay.
In May 2021, Together froze interest for two months following receipt of a breathing 
space request. Mrs S had lost her job. In September 2021 she got another job, but 
paying less than shed earned before, but then she took time off sick for a medical 
procedure. Together agreed a nil payment arrangement. In January 2022 Mrs S offered to resume paying £500 per month but Together asked to go through their 
income and expenditure before it would agree. Together then said that £500 wasnt 
enough to ensure repayment of the loan and the payment would need to be 
increased to over £700 per month. It suggested Mr and Mrs S seek advice about how 
to exit from the loan.
Throughout this period, Mr and Mrs S have been in regular contact with Together. 
Theyve given it details about their finances and wider situation. Mr S is disabled, in 
receipt of benefits and not able to work. Mrs S has been working, but has her own 
health issues and has been out of work for periods.
I think the evidence is clear that Mr and Mrs S have been doing their best to keep up 
to date with the loan, paying what they can when they can.
However, it seems that theyve been unable to afford to pay more than £500 per 
month even when Mrs S is working, and at times have struggled to pay that.
Together was right that as things stood in 2021 and 2022 Mr and Mrs S were unlikely 
to be able to repay the loan balance. Even if they could maintain the payment of 
£500 per month, that would cover the interest, but make very little reduction in the 
capital.
Together advised Mr and Mrs S that theyd need to increase their monthly payments 
to over £750 to ensure the loan was paid off by the end of the term. Its clear they 
werent able to do that, so Together suggested they get independent financial advice 
to consider exiting the loan  which presumably means selling their property to 
repay it, since there was no other way they could do so.
Ive reviewed everything that happened over this period, including the other contact 
between Mr and Mrs S and Together at times when they were keeping to the various 
arrangements (which, for reasons of space, I havent detailed above).
I think Together did take steps to assist Mr and Mrs S, as Id expect. Its agreed a 
series of payment arrangements and on particular occasions offered forbearance 
where Mr and Mrs S have struggled to make individual payments. This is what Id 
expect it to do.
However, I think theres more Together ought to have done. It ought, acting fairly, to 
have taken a step back and looked at Mr and Mrs Ss situation in the round. Together 
has correctly identified that Mr and Mrs S are not on course to repay the mortgage by 
the end of the term, and in fact were not making substantial in-roads into the capital 
even when they were making payment.
It's clear from their circumstances that Mr and Mrs S were paying what they could, 
and are unlikely to be able to pay any more at any time in the future either.
Togethers only response to this was to suggest that Mr and Mrs S consider exiting 
the loan  selling their property to repay. It didnt consider other ways in which it 
could have assisted.
In my view, acting fairly, Together ought to have done so. It would have been fair and 
reasonable for it to look at the loan balance, look at what Mr and Mrs S were paying 
and what they could afford to pay, and think about whether they were on track to 
clear the balance  or whether, in fact, their situation was not improving and risked 
getting worse as the remaining term got shorter without the balance reducing. And, if so, what could be done to get things back on track.
Freezing interest in situations like this  that is, reducing the interest rate to 0% - is a 
relatively common form of forbearance in the second charge lending market, in my 
experience. In the right situation, doing so can amount to good industry practice.
In this case, Mr and Mrs S had been paying around £500 per month for several 
years. That was the most they could afford  and at times even that was a struggle. 
Their loan balance was not significantly reducing, even as the time left on the loan 
shrank. In that situation, Id expect a responsible lender acting fairly to review the 
loan balance, check to see whether the loan was on track to be repaid by the end of 
the term  and, if not, consider what action needed to be taken in light of the 
borrowers financial situation at that time. Actions might include amending the 
monthly payment, extending the term, or reducing or freezing the interest. But 
Together didnt consider any of these options  it merely suggested Mr and Mrs S 
might want to think about selling the property. I dont think that was fair and 
reasonable, as it put the entire onus on Mr and Mrs S and didnt involve Together 
thinking about what it could fairly do to assist them.
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ss financial and health situation in 2021, there 
should have been a review of the account  with a view to showing the necessary 
forbearance to allow Mr and Mrs S to clear the loan balance in an affordable way by 
the end of the term. Doing so would need to take into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time as well as the history of the loan and reasons why it was in 
the position it was in.
Im satisfied that Together ought, acting fairly and reasonably, to have frozen  
stopped applying  the interest, so that Mr and Mrs S could focus on reducing the 
capital balance by the end of the term. Ive reviewed the history of the account, and I 
think that decision ought fairly have been taken by the end of 2020  when Mr and 
Mrs S had come off a coronavirus payment deferral, but Mrs S had lost her previous 
job and was experiencing further health concerns which would impact their ability to 
make payments in the future. It was clear to Together by this point that it was unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would be able to repay their loan, and so it ought to have thought 
about what further action it could take to assist them.
To put matters right, therefore, Together should re-work the account as if it had 
reduced the interest rate to 0% from 1 December 2020. Any payments Mr and Mrs S 
have made since then should be used to reduce the capital balance of the loan.
Together should also remove any arrears fees it has charged during the life of this 
complaint, when Mr and Mrs S had essentially lost hope of repaying the loan and 
invested their hopes in this complaint. Although I havent been able to consider the 
sale of the loan, I have found that there was more Together could have done to 
assist them.
Together should then calculate the amount of capital outstanding, disregarding any 
interest charged since 1 December 2020. It should work out what Mr and Mrs S will 
need to pay each month to clear the remaining capital balance between now and the 
end of the term. And it should then engage with Mr and Mrs S and review their 
income and expenditure to determine if that amount is affordable for them  and, if 
not, consider whether a term extension to reduce the monthly payment to an 
affordable amount would also be appropriate.
The responses to my provisional decisionMr and Mrs S didnt agree with what I said about the time limits applicable to their complaint, 
as they said they were never made aware this was an unregulated loan, and werent aware it 
was interest only. And they didnt know they could complain or how to go about complaining 
until recently. However, they welcomed my proposals for how to put matters right. They said 
paying the amount Together requested was simply unaffordable and has resulted in 
considerable distress.
Together said it had previously removed the 2016 and 2017 charges I had identified. It said 
removing the charges since 2022, and removing interest since December 2020, would 
reduce the balance from around £61,000 to around £47,000. 
Together agreed to remove the arrears fees. But it didnt think freezing interest was a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Together accepted that it could have done more to support Mr and Mrs S. But it didnt think it 
was fair that this should result in the loan being interest free from December 2020 onwards 
for the rest of the term. It said it was entitled to apply interest under the terms of the 
mortgage contract, and it wouldnt be right for Mr and Mrs S to benefit from any mistakes 
Together might have made.
It said that had it considered matters properly in December 2020, it might have offered to 
reduce the interest rate to zero for 12 months to allow Mr and Mrs S to take financial advice 
and explore exiting the loan if their circumstances are unlikely to change. To resolve this 
complaint, it offered to reduce the interest rate to zero from 1 December 2020 to 
1 December 2023 to allow them to do that now. It said that would give them six months to 
find a way to exit the loan if they couldnt afford the repayments required. It said 
Mr and Mrs S would then need to pay £740 per month to clear the loan balance by the end 
of the term  subject to any future interest rate rises  though their contractual monthly 
payment was £510.
Together said that freezing interest on a permanent basis wasnt an appropriate form of 
assistance or a reasonable way forward. The purpose of an interest freeze is to provide 
temporary assistance  for the customer to either allow some time before resuming full 
payments, or allow some time to find a long term solution. 
Mr and Mrs S then completed a further income and expenditure assessment. This showed 
that Mr and Mrs Ss total income was around £2,850 per month, and their total expenditure 
was around £2,700  this included the contractual monthly payment for this loan (but not the 
higher amount required to ensure it will be repaid by the end of the term). It said their 
expenditure included payments to non-priority unsecured debt, and that some of their other 
monthly expenditure was higher than might be expected. So it didnt agree that they couldnt 
afford to repay the contractual monthly payment plus an amount to reduce the balance. 
Together said that following an interest freeze until December 2023, Mr and Mrs S would 
need to pay £740 per month to clear the loan balance by the end of the term  or £555 per 
month to clear the loan balance by April 2042 (a ten year term extension, the maximum it 
would consider), subject to interest rates changing over time. It considered this to be 
affordable according to the income and expenditure assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses to my provisional decision and the further arguments made.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs S have said. But I havent changed my mind about what I can 
consider as part of this complaint. I have no power to consider anything that happened 
before April 2014. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S would have been aware of fees they 
were being charged, and the amount outstanding, at the time. I can only consider things that 
have happened since 3 August 2015.
As I explained in my provisional decision, this is not and never has been an interest only 
loan. It was lent, and remains, on repayment terms. The reason Mr and Mrs S are in the 
position they are in now is because  due to past arrears and charges and associated 
additional interest  the payments theyve been making barely cover the interest theyve 
been charged each month, and so the balance is not reducing as was originally intended.
Together has refunded the fees I identified in 2016 and 2017, and has agreed to remove 
fees charged since 2022. It also agrees that it could have done more in 2020 to assist 
Mr and Mrs S. But it doesnt agree that I what I said in my provisional decision is a fair way 
to put matters right  thats the remaining point at issue in this case, and thats what Ill focus 
on. 
It's unfortunate Mr and Mrs S havent made any payments since they made this complaint. I 
understand their position and that they felt there was no prospect of them ever paying off this 
loan. But not making any payments at all has left them in a worse position and withholding 
payment is never the right way forward  Mr and Mrs S should always pay what they can.
However, the key issue for me in this case is what happened before that, and whether 
Together treated them fairly in the run up to this complaint, and what it ought to have done to 
assist Mr and Mrs S in their particular situation.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr S is disabled and unable to work. Mrs S is the sole 
earner (though they receive some benefits too) and she herself has health issues. Having 
considered the income and expenditure information theyve provided, I think its clear that 
paying £740 per month to clear the loan by the end of the term wouldnt be affordable for 
them. Although Together makes a reasonable point, with which I agree, that they could 
reach an arrangement  and should seek debt advice  in relation to their unsecured debt, I 
dont agree that their other expenditure appears unduly high. And in some areas, such as 
utilities, it appears low in the current climate. 
The interest rate was 8.7% initially. It increased to 10.7% in April 2008 and then remained 
unchanged until July 2020, when it reduced to 10.2%. Between June 2022 and now, it has 
increased to 13.7%. There is no guarantee that the interest rate wont increase further 
between now and the end of the term  and if it does, and Together continues to apply 
interest, the amount Mr and Mrs S will be required to pay to clear the loan will increase 
further and become more unaffordable. 
Together has proposed a term extension of ten years, which would reduce the required 
amount to around £555 (without any future interest rate rises)  which is more affordable for 
Mr and Mrs S. However, Im not persuaded this would make the loan sustainable over the 
long term. As things are, the loan term will end when Mrs S is 65 and Mr S is 70. A ten year 
term extension would take them to 75 and 80, respectively. And its not clear the loan would 
be affordable for them past their retirement ages. So Im not persuaded this is enough to put 
the loan on a sustainable footing.
I think its fair and reasonable to note that Mr and Mrs S have experienced substantial 
financial difficulties in the past  and that the impact of this has been to add significant extra interest to the loan balance. The result of this is that theres no clear sustainable way forward 
to ensure that the loan is repaid by the end of the term or in a reasonable time thereafter. If 
Mr and Mrs S resume paying what was affordable for them  around £500 per month  over 
the same loan term their position will continue to worsen and the shortfall balance at the end 
of the term will be larger than it is now. And extending the term would go significantly past 
retirement age, with no clear way for Mr and Mrs S to afford the loan at that point.
If Together had considered their situation in the round in late 2020, I think it would  acting 
fairly  have concluded that as things stood there was little or no prospect of Mr and Mrs S 
ever being able to repay this loan. And, rather than simply expecting them to exit the loan 
(which means, in reality, sell their property and move into rented accommodation  which 
also might not be affordable for them), it should, acting fairly, have considered whether there 
were any further forms of forbearance it could have shown to return the loan to a sustainable 
position.
In cases like this, reducing the interest rate, or freezing it altogether, is not uncommon in the 
second charge market, in my experience. For example, I note this is something the regulator 
referred to in its guidance to lenders in 2021.1 Although this guidance post-dates the period 
when I consider Together could have done more in this case, and so is not something 
Together could have taken into account at the time, the measures set out in it represent 
existing good practice in approaching forbearance under the mortgage regulations. 
In my view, this is a case where that would have been appropriate. It was clear that Mr and 
Mrs S had no prospect of repaying the loan by the end of the term. Paying what they could 
afford would either result in an increasing shortfall balance at the end of the term, or  as 
Together now offers but didnt at the time  a term extension significantly beyond their 
retirement ages. Reducing the amount due to what they could afford  by reducing the 
interest rate  would offer appropriate forbearance to deal with the issue of the escalating 
balance and ensure the loan could be repaid on time.
I take Togethers point that in continuing to apply interest it would be operating the loan in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. The terms and conditions entitle it to charge 
interest as long as the loan remains outstanding. And thats a relevant factor. But its also 
relevant to take into account whether strict enforcement of the contract without considering 
whether to vary it results in fair treatment in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
taking into account also the wider obligations of forbearance. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
the fair outcome would be to restructure Mr and Mrs Ss loan so that theyre able to clear the 
balance in an affordable way over the remaining term  taking into account that past 
financial difficulty has resulted in an escalating balance which they otherwise wouldnt be 
able to pay off.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Blemain Finance Limited trading as Together to:
Remove all arrears fees charged since 2022, together with any interest charged on 
them.
Reduce the interest rate to zero, backdated to 1 December 2020 and for the 
remainder of the loan term, and re-calculate the loan balance and monthly payment 
1 Mortgages and Coronavirus: Tailored Support Guidance, FCA, 2021 at para 5.18accordingly.
Write to Mr and Mrs S to confirm the revised loan balance and monthly payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman