DRN-4150042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim for storm damage.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill 
summarise what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their QIC home insurance policy for storm 
damage that affected the roofs of their main house, dormer extension, 
garage and porch as well as causing internal damage at the property.
QIC sent a surveyor (surveyor A) to inspect the property who concluded the 
damage was most likely caused by storm. The surveyor noted the potential of 
asbestos in the garage roof that would need to be investigated further and 
pending the outcome could change the repair scope.
QIC accepted the claim and offered Mr and Mrs W a cash settlement which less 
VAT and the applicable policy excess amounted to £3,905.12. It later retracted 
this offer, citing that a technical desktop review by its in-house surveyor 
(surveyor B) found that storm wasnt the main cause of the damage, instead it 
happened gradually.
QIC said gradual damage is excluded under the policy, so it declined most of 
what Mr and Mrs W claimed for. It did however agree to cover the porch roof 
damage, but as the costs to repair this were less than the policy excess it 
questioned whether this was something Mr and Mrs W wanted to pursue.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with QICs decision. They say they proceeded with 
works to repair the damage to the porch, dormer and main house via their own 
contractors, on the understanding it would be covered under the cash settlement 
QIC had offered them. They say QICs retraction of this leaves them financially 
disadvantaged and is unfair.
Mr and Mrs W also argue that QIC gave no indication that the offer was under 
review or that it would be retracted until it declined the claim several months 
after the offer was made. And they think the report from surveyor A who visited 
their property and inspected the damage in person, should hold more weight 
than Surveyor B, who only looked at photographs to make their decision.
QIC maintained its position on the claim but offered Mr and Mrs W £300 
compensation for the inconvenience its change in decision caused. 
Mr and Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. They wanted QIC to 
honour its existing cash settlement offer and to cover the costs for the 
garage roof repairs.
Our investigator was more persuaded by the initial surveyors report and upheld 
the complaint in part. She said QIC should pay Mr and Mrs W the cash 
settlement it had previously offered, plus 8% interest on that figure and £300 
compensation.
But she didnt agree the garage roof should be covered as she concluded this 
wasnt a direct result of the storm, but rather from tiles that fell from the main 
roof when it was damaged in the storm  something she said wasnt covered 
under the policy as it didnt include accidental damage cover.
QIC disagreed with the investigators findings. It said the pictures it had 
provided clearly showed the damage being claimed for was the result of 
gradual deterioration and wear and tear and so wasnt covered.
The case was passed to me to decide and in April 2023 I issued a provisional decision 
on it upholding the complaint in part. Ive included part of this below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws QIC policy covers them for damage caused by storm, but like 
most policies of this nature, certain terms, conditions and exclusions apply. 
One such exclusion is damage that happens gradually.
Its not in dispute in this case that a storm occurred, and that the damage being 
claimed for is consistent with damage a storm could cause. What I need to 
consider, is whether or not storm was most likely the main cause of this 
damage.
From what Ive seen, QIC initially agreed that it was. It appointed surveyor A, 
who visited the property and inspected the damage being claimed for. 
Surveyor A made no mention of any gradual deterioration in their report, and 
instead said the property was in a fair state of repair and the proximate cause 
of the damage was storm, resulting in QIC making a cash settlement offer.
I understand that several months then went by, during which Mr and Mrs W 
requested a breakdown and further explanation of the offer  something Ive 
seen they had to chase several times without much success. They then 
appointed their own contractors to complete most of the repairs (excluding 
the garage) at a cost amounting to the cash settlement offer and notified QIC 
of this.
At that point it seems that surveyor B declined the claim after looking at 
photographs surveyor A had taken of the damage, and concluding the cause 
was consistent with gradual deterioration rather than storm and so wasnt 
covered under the policy.
QIC then retracted the offer for the damage caused to the roofs of the main 
house and dormer and said it would only cover the damage to the porch as it 
was satisfied storm was the main cause of this.
QIC also declined to cover the damage to the garage because it happened as a 
result of falling hip tiles from the main roof. And as QIC was of the opinion that 
storm wasnt the cause of these falling hip tiles, it said damage caused by this 
couldnt be considered under the storm section of the policy. And as 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy didnt have accidental damage cover, it couldnt be 
considered under this peril either.
Essentially QIC is relying on an exclusion to decline the claim. Its not unusual 
for gradual damage to be excluded under policies of this nature. And QIC is entitled to rely on such an exclusion, as long as it can demonstrate that it fairly 
applies. So Ive thought about this carefully.
To make my decision I review all the evidence and information from both 
sides and generally place weight on the opinions of the relevant experts. In 
this case, I have two different expert opinions and it comes down to which one 
I think is more persuasive in all the circumstances of this case.
Both experts were appointed by QIC, but I understand only surveyor A saw the 
damage in person. And Mr and Mrs W argue that their findings hold more weight 
as a result. Surveyor B made their decision by reviewing photographs which I 
understand were taken by surveyor A. And QIC has provided commentary to this 
service about why it thinks these photographs clearly illustrate gradual damage.
Ive considered both arguments carefully and I fail to see why, if gradual 
damage is so evident from these photographs, which are arguably less clear 
than seeing something in person, that these same findings werent picked up by 
surveyor A who visited the property and inspected the same damage thats been 
photographed. And so far, QIC hasnt provided a reasonable explanation for 
this. So Im more persuaded by surveyor As report which states Mr and Mrs Ws 
property was in a fair state of repair and that storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
It follows on balance of what Ive seen so far, I dont think QIC has 
demonstrated that the exclusion its relied on in this case fairly applies. So I 
dont think its acted fairly by retracting its offer and declining Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim.
To put things right, I intend to direct QIC to pay Mr and Mrs W the original cash 
settlement offer, plus 8% simple interest from the date the offer was made to the 
date QIC pays it to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W have provided invoices to 
show they paid £3,900 in total for the completed repairs, which is almost the 
exact amount of the cash settlement offer they were expecting to receive from 
QIC.
In addition, I think the claim for the garage damage should be considered 
under the storm section of the policy. I say this because, QICs reason for not 
doing this was because it didnt think storm was the cause of the falling hip 
tiles that damaged the garage. Ive set out why Im currently persuaded that it 
most likely was, so Im minded to conclude that this damage should be fairly 
considered under the storm section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy.
QIC offered Mr and Mrs W £300 compensation for the inconvenience of its 
change in decision. I think this is fair and so and I intend to direct QIC to pay 
this to them if it hasnt done so already.
Both parties were given time to respond to my findings. Mr and Mrs W had no further 
comment to add, but QIC disagreed, providing comments which are summarised below.
Surveyor A wasnt physically on the roof but reviewed images of the damage 
that were acquired by using a pole camera or ground inspection. Both 
surveyors used the same information to assess the damage, but the reason 
for their differing opinions is that surveyor B conducted a more thorough and 
comprehensive survey while being supported by a technically minded team.
The photos clearly show the mortar was not in good condition  it doesnt form 
a straight line, with the deterioration creating voids underneath for the winds to 
penetrate. The remaining mortar, as a result does not have a strong enough bond to withstand this and therefore removed from the roof. 
The photos show the dormer roof has rusting around nail holes highlighting the 
overall condition of the roof.
The impact damage to the garage roof cannot be considered because the tiles 
that caused damage to the garage roof have not been validated as being due 
to storm. Therefore, storm would not apply to the garage roof itself.
Ive considered QICs response in full before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my opinion as set out in my provisional decision remains unchanged. Ill 
explain why.
Surveyor B only saw the damage Mr and Mrs W claimed for in photos. Regardless of 
how QIC now say these photos were obtained, the fact remains, surveyor A visited 
the insured property. And from Mr and Mrs Ws testimony, also inspected damaged 
areas, such as the mortar on the roof (one of the areas in dispute). So Im still 
persuaded surveyor A most likely had a better view of the damage than surveyor B.
I can see the rust markings QIC refer to in the image of the dormer roof, and Ive also 
seen images of the roof mortar. The images alone dont persuade me that the 
damage being claimed for was because of a gradually operating cause rather than 
storm. So, as I previously explained, I place weight on the opinions of the relevant 
experts. They differ in this case, so Ive thought about which is more persuasive.
Ive carefully considered QICs commentary about the images and what it now says 
they show. But I cant ignore the fact that surveyor A also reviewed these images and 
saw the roof while visiting the property  even if only from a ground inspection.  And 
they made no comment on a gradually operating cause  something, that on 
balance, I think they would have done if it was as obvious as QIC now state.
I understand that when QIC made its initial offer to Mr and Mrs W it was in 
possession of surveyor As report and all the images it now seeks to rely on to 
decline their claim. Therefore, its change in decision doesnt seem to be based on 
new information for example, but rather a change of opinion that took place quite 
some time after it made an offer and after it was aware Mr and Mrs W had gone 
ahead with repair works based on that offer. 
Mr and Mrs W say this is unfair and without reasonable explanation from QIC as to 
why this happened, I would agree in this case.
Im still not satisfied that QIC has given a reasonable explanation for this change of 
opinion in its response to my findings. QIC says surveyor Bs report was more 
thorough and comprehensive but it doesnt reasonably explain why. Simply stating 
that it was isnt enough to persuade me thats the case. And if QIC didnt think 
surveyor As report was of an acceptable standard to validate the claim, I think its 
unlikely it wouldve offered a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs W on the back of this. 
It follows on balance of everything Ive seen and taking into consideration whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im still not persuaded that QIC 
has demonstrated the exclusion it relied on to decline Mr and Mrs Ws claim fairly 
applies in this case. Therefore my direction on how to put things right as set out in my provisional decision 
remains the same. This includes reconsidering Mr and Mrs Ws claim for the damage 
to their garage under the storm section of the policy for the reasons already 
explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
QIC Europe Ltd must do the following to put things right.
Reinstate and pay to Mr and Mrs W the original cash settlement offer of £3,905.12 
plus 8%* simple interest on this amount from the date the offer was made to the date 
QIC Europe Ltd pay it to Mr and Mrs W.
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Ws claim for the damage to their garage under the storm 
section of the policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs W its offer of £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
* If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman