DRN-3609032
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money dealt with his 
attempts to recover money he paid for a holiday that didnt go ahead due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr G paid a deposit to B, a holiday company, for accommodation abroad. He used his 
Virgin Money MasterCard credit card to make payment. The week before Mr G was due to 
travel, the country he was due to visit closed its borders in an effort to contain the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr G made enquiries of B in respect of getting a refund of his payment. B 
responded setting out its standard cancellation policy, and in light of the circumstances 
offering Mr G the option to rebook later in the year.
Unhappy with Bs stance, Mr G turned to Virgin Money to see whether he could recover his 
money that way. Virgin Money said that because B had set out the cancellation terms in the 
booking agreement and that this hadnt been adhered to, it had no grounds to claim back the 
money via the MasterCard chargeback scheme. Virgin Money also said it was unable to 
progress a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
Mr G didnt receive Virgin Moneys reply until the deadline for response had passed. When 
he contacted Virgin Money about its decision, it told him he couldnt appeal against it. Mr G 
complained to Virgin Money, who acknowledged some service shortcomings and credited Mr 
Gs account with £50 in respect of these. It told Mr G that it would consider his claim further if 
he provided additional evidence, and said if he remained unhappy he could refer matters to 
our service. He duly did so.
Our investigator found that in addition to closing its borders, Mr Gs intended destination had 
entered an effective lockdown, meaning it was unlikely B would have been able to provide 
the accommodation under the contract. The investigator noted Mr G hadnt cancelled the 
booking, so he thought it likely that Mr G would have been entitled to receive his money back 
via chargeback. Because Virgin Money had declined to process what appeared to be a valid 
claim, the investigator recommended that it compensate Mr G by refunding him what hed 
paid with interest, along with the £50 it had already paid for its acknowledged poor service.
Mr G said he was happy with this proposal. However, Virgin Money hasnt responded within 
the timescale given by the investigator, despite us giving it additional time to do so. 
Consequently matters have been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr G didnt cancel the agreement with B, and that the underlying circumstances 
that prevented Mr G from travelling to his destination also prevented B from providing the 
accommodation as booked. The emails between the parties merely clarify the cancellation 
policy and alternative options. They dont suggest Mr G acted to terminate the agreement. 
Rather, the lockdown imposed by the government in the destination country permitted only 
essential services and economic activity, which didnt include leisure accommodation of the 
type B offered. Because the accommodation couldnt lawfully be provided the contract looks 
like it was frustrated.
Where a contract is frustrated  that is, unforeseen circumstances have made it impossible 
to perform  the usual legal remedy is that the parties are released from their contractual 
obligations. In such circumstances B wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Gs booking, and he 
would be restored to his original financial position by having his money back.
As the investigator noted, such an event gives rise to a valid chargeback claim. That 
appears to be supported by MasterCard guidance issued in May 2020 and available to Virgin 
Money at the time it was dealing with the chargeback claim. The guidance says 
Question: The cardholder prepaid for services (e.g. flight or hotel reservation) and 
the cardholder was notified that the merchant will not be able to provide the services. 
No refund has been processed. Does an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: Yes. There is a chargeback right when services are not provided, including 
when they are cancelled by a merchant due to government restrictions, insolvency or 
other exceptional circumstances, unless the merchant has a right to provide the 
cardholder with reasonable alternatives based on the terms and conditions properly 
disclosed to the cardholder at the time [of] purchase, or based on applicable 
government legislation or regulation.
Whether the alternative B proposed was reasonable is a moot point, given that it was an 
alternative B put forward when it was realised the booking couldnt go ahead rather than at 
the time of purchase. Ive seen nothing to suggest the booking terms permitted such an 
alternative, or any government legislation or regulation made by the destination country that 
imposed such an alternative.
With this is mind, like the investigator I find that there was a valid chargeback right, and that 
by failing to pursue a claim on Mr Gs behalf Virgin Money treated him unreasonably and to 
his detriment. I further find that the appropriate way to address that poor treatment and 
detriment is for Virgin Money to reimburse Mr G his payment of £477.81, along with interest 
at 8% simple to reflect the fact hes been out of pocket over time. Im satisfied Virgin 
Moneys £50 payment is reasonable to address the other service shortcomings and make no 
further award in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. To 
settle it, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must, within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision, take the following steps:
1. pay Mr G £477.81, representing the amount he paid as a deposit for his booking
2. pay interest on the amount in 1. calculated annually at 8% simple, from 4 August 
2020 (being the date Virgin Money issued its response to Mr Gs claim) until the date 
it pays this settlement. If Virgin Money deducts tax from this interest, it should provide 
Miss S with an appropriate tax certificate Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman