DRN-3431111
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont compensate her for damage she 
believes it is responsible for, after she made a claim under her home emergency policy.
References to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2021 Mrs A contacted Aviva to report a fault with her boiler, which meant she had no 
heating or hot water. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit her property the following day. 
The next day Mrs A told Aviva that water was leaking from the boiler and asked for a 
plumber to also be sent around. After the engineers visit, Mrs A told Aviva that she had no 
electricity because of something the engineer had done to her fuse box. She also said she 
wanted to put in a claim for property damage. An engineer returned to the property the 
following day and reported that everything was in working order. 
Aviva apologised for the issues Mrs A had experienced. It said it had made several errors 
and Mrs As property should have been attended as an emergency. It paid Mrs A £200 in 
compensation. Aviva said that if Mrs A sent pictures of damage caused by the leaking water, 
it would assess this further. 
There were some further issues in the weeks that followed which resulted in more visits from 
engineers before the boiler was replaced.
Mrs A provided Aviva with some photographs and a quote for repairs to her ceiling. Aviva 
arranged for a surveyor to assess the damage. He concluded that the damage wasnt 
consistent with a leak from the boiler. The surveyor said hed attended Mrs As property in 
connection with another insurance claim around a year before and observed the same 
damage to the ceiling. He said he believed the damage was historic. 
Aviva told Mrs A that it wouldnt accept responsibility for the damage to her ceiling. She 
remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs As concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view. She said the damage was caused by a 
pipe leading from the boiler to the first floor. She said there were no further problems after 
her boiler and pipes were replaced. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs As policy with Aviva provided insurance in relation to emergencies and other domestic 
problems, including a breakdown of her heating system. It didnt provide cover for damage to 
her property as a result of a problem with the heating system or leaking pipes.
In order to uphold Mrs As complaint, Id need to be persuaded that the damage to her wall 
and ceiling was as a result of Aviva failing to complete repairs it was required to do under the 
terms of the policy promptly or adequately.
The policies terms and conditions say that if a claim requires Aviva to visit a policyholders 
property it will attend within a reasonable timescale.
Aviva has apologised for not sending an engineer around the same day that Mrs A reported 
an issue with her boiler in early August 2021. According to Avivas notes Mrs A called 
several times the next day. She informed Aviva that water was leaking from the boiler and 
there were two buckets under it. She also raised concerns about damage to her property. I 
can see that an engineer carried out repairs the same day but needed to return the following 
day because of issues with Mrs As electricity. 
I can also see that there were some further visits from engineers before it was decided that 
Mrs As boiler was beyond economical repair in September 2021. Aviva paid for a new boiler 
and Mrs A paid for it to be installed.
Mrs A says the damage to her wall and ceiling was caused by a pipe leading from her boiler. 
Shes also commented that the engineer who visited her property helped her mop up water 
leaking from her boiler and empty buckets shed placed to try to catch it. 
Its unclear if Aviva might have been able to prevent Mrs As boiler leaking if it had sent an 
engineer around sooner. However, in its response to Mrs As initial complaint about the 
matter, Aviva indicated it was willing to consider the damage Mrs A said had been caused to 
her property. 
I can see that Mrs A provided Aviva with photographs of her wall and ceiling. She also sent 
Aviva an estimate from a maintenance company for ceiling repairs after leak.
Aviva doesnt dispute that there was water leaking from Mrs As boiler. It says it hasnt 
accepted liability for damage to the walls and ceiling of Mrs As kitchen because the surveyor 
it sent to the property said the damage isnt consistent with a leak from the boiler and said he 
inspected the same damage in 2020. 
Aviva has provided a report from the surveyor which says:
The boiler is situated within a cupboard and there is no water damage within this area, the 
damage is higher than the cupboard. The damage is not consistent with a leak from the 
boiler. (The surveyors) were appointed for an insurance claim in September 2020 and the 
same surveyor attended and inspected the same damage and the stains are historic.
Ive also listened to a voice recording from the surveyor, where hes said that the boiler was 
on the ground floor about halfway up wall. He didnt think it was possible for the damage in 
Mrs As kitchen / diner to have been caused by a boiler defect. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs A says about the damage to her ceiling and wall being 
caused by a leaking pipe. But the surveyor has indicated that the damage wasnt consistent 
with a leak from the boiler, which is what Avivas engineers went around to fix. Moreover, the 
surveyor has said that the damage was already there about a year prior to Mrs As home emergency claim. So, Im not persuaded that Aviva is responsible for the damage or should 
have to pay for it to be fixed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman