DRN-1709955
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold home emergency cover in 2013 when she took out 
buildings and contents insurance with Esure Services Limited.
What happened
On 1 February 2013 Mrs D purchased a policy of insurance online with Esure via a price 
comparison website. When she took out her policy, she said she received a two page key 
facts document, which led her to believe she had home emergency cover for roof damage.
On 4 May 2019 the front, fibre glass flat roof covering the two, north facing dormer windows 
blew off Mrs Ds property and came to rest in her neighbours rear garden. The local fire 
service attended and sawed the detached roof into three sections in order to move it back 
into Mrs D rear garden.
Mrs D said the damage to her roof had occurred during a storm. So, she contacted the 
Esure emergency telephone number to request emergency assistance. But she was 
informed that she wasnt covered for roof damage under her home emergency policy. In 
order to mitigate further damage to her property Mrs D therefore instructed an emergency 
roofer to undertake a temporary repair.
Mrs D was unhappy that her home emergency policy didnt cover her for the damage to her 
roof. But Esure said her home emergency provider hadnt offered cover for roof damage 
since 2011, which was when this cover was withdrawn.
Mrs D was unhappy about this and raised a complaint with Esure on 10 June 2019. She said 
roof cover had always been important to her. And she said shed received documentation in 
2013, at the time she purchased her policy, which clearly stated that her home emergency 
policy covered her for roof damage. She said her decision to take out insurance with Esure 
had been based on it providing home emergency roof cover. And, as roof cover was 
withdrawn in 2011, Mrs D said Esure had mis-sold her home emergency policy and misled 
her by providing incorrect out of date information about the extent of her cover.
Esure disputed Mrs Ds claim that shed been misled or mis-sold her home emergency 
policy. It said, as shed purchased her insurance policy online, it hadnt given any advice on, 
or been involved in, the sale. And it said it hadnt sent Mrs D any documents which stated 
roof damage was included in her home emergency cover. It thought she may have printed 
off an out of date home emergency policy documents from its website. And it explained that 
any updates to the cover Mrs D had purchased were posted to her at the relevant renewal 
date.
While, Esure didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint it refunded £23.97, which was the cost of the 
premiums Mrs D had paid for home emergency cover from 2014 until 2016, when a new 
policy booklet was sent to her. Esure explained that this refund was being provided as a 
gesture of goodwill and in efforts to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. It didnt provide a refund for 
2013 because, at the time Mrs D took out her insurance policy with Esure, her home 
emergency cover was free of charge.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Esures response to her complaint and referred it to our service. 
She refuted Esures comments that she had downloaded out of date home emergency 
documentation in error from its website. She maintained this had been provided to herby 
Esure in 2013 when her policy was incepted. And to resolve her complaint she wanted Esure 
to refund the insurance premiums shed paid between 2013 and 2016.
Our investigator looked into what happened and thought Esure had dealt with Mrs Ds 
complaint fairly. They said there wasnt enough evidence to show how Mrs D had come by 
out of date home emergency policy documents. And, as Esure had refunded the home 
emergency policy premiums Mrs D had paid for 2014 to 2016, there was nothing more it 
needed to do. But Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view of her complaint and asked 
for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs D experienced here. I know she feels very strongly 
about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons shes brought this complaint to our service. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision confirming that our service can consider Mrs Ds 
complaint as its been referred within the time limits that apply. So, this decision will address 
the merits of Mrs Ds complaint.
I understand Mrs D has raised a complaint with our service about how Esure dealt with her 
claim for roof damage under her buildings insurance policy. This is being dealt with 
separately by our service. So, I wont be commenting on how Mrs Ds roof damage claim 
was settled in this decision
Id like to thank Mrs D and Esure for the level of detail contained in their submissions. Ive 
read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a 
point that Mrs D or Esure have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will 
focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal 
nature of this service.
Mrs D has told Esure and our service that she believes she was mis-sold a home emergency 
policy in 2013. She thought the policy shed purchased provided home emergency cover roof 
damage. But in 2019, when she needed to make a claim after her roof sustained damage 
following adverse weather, she discovered that her home emergency provider had 
withdrawn roof cover in 2011. This was two years prior to Mrs D purchasing insurance with 
Esure. So, understandably shes concerned shes been misled as to the extent of her home 
emergency cover.
In reaching my decision Ive considered how Mrs Ds policy with Esure was sold to her. As I 
set out in the background to this complaint, she purchased her home insurance and home 
emergency policy with Esure online via a price comparison website on 1 February 2013. Im 
satisfied the sale was conducted on a non-advised basis as Esure didnt recommend the 
policy or provide Mrs D with any advice as to the suitability of the cover she was selecting. 
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means Esure didnt need to make 
sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mrs Ds needs. It had a responsibility to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs D could make an informed 
decision on whether the policy was suitable for her. The responsibility for ensuring she had 
the cover he required therefore rested on Mrs D.Here, Mrs D argues that she was misled by the documentation she received from Esure after 
taking out her policy. Ive therefore looked carefully at the documentation Mrs D has 
provided our service to determine whether there is any evidence that Esure informed her 
that emergency roof cover was included in her policy in 2013.
Ive seen a quotation from 2013. This is from when Mrs D incepted her policy with Esure. 
While this document refers to free home emergency cover being provided. It doesnt state 
roof cover is included under that part of the policy. 
Mrs D has provided our service with a key facts document that states assistance is 
provided if a home emergency occurs due to damage to your roof. She says this was 
provided to her by Esure in 2013 and is evidence that it informed her that home emergency 
roof cover was included in her policy.
I can see that this document isnt dated. And theres nothing to show it relates to the policy 
Mrs D purchased in 2013  such as a reference or policy number. I havent seen the full 
document as only part of it has been provided by Mrs D.
Esure doesnt dispute this is a document it has provided customers in the past. But it said 
this document is out of date and wasnt sent to Mrs D by it in 2013. Its told Mrs D and our 
service that the document Mrs D has provided our service isnt in the same format as the key 
facts pamphlet it sends its customers. So, its raised the question of how Mrs D obtained the 
document she relies on here.
Ive seen a copy of a key facts document Esure has provided, which is date stamped 6 
October 2011. So, Im satisfied that this document includes information about the extent of 
home emergency cover that applied in 2011. And, having compared this document to the 
one Mrs D has sent our service, I agree with Esure that the documents are formatted and 
written very differently to the one Mrs D relies on. 
Mrs D hasnt been able to provide Esure with the original key facts pamphlet. And it isnt 
clear how she came by the document in question. But I havent seen enough to satisfy me 
that Esure provided the document to Mrs D at the time she incepted her policy. It follows that 
I cant fairly find that Esure misled Mrs D by sending her an out of date key facts document.
Mrs D has argued that Esure should have notified her that the home emergency criteria had 
changed and that home emergency roof cover had been withdrawn. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that roof cover was withdrawn in 2011. This was prior to Mrs 
D incepting her policy with Esure. So, Esures home emergency criteria didnt change during 
the time Mrs D was on cover.
In efforts to resolve the complaint Mrs D made, Esure refunded the home emergency 
premiums from 2014-2016 as a goodwill gesture. This totalled £23.97. Mrs D has argued 
that the premium she paid in 2013 should be refunded as she says she only incepted her 
policy with Esure because she believed it offered home emergency roof cover. 
Ive thought about what Mrs D has said here. But I understand that the first years home 
emergency cover was provided free of charge in 2013. And, as Mrs D has had the benefit of 
the home insurance policy she purchased in 2013, Im satisfied theres nothing to refund 
from that year.
I should also add that I think Esure has acted fairly in refunding the home emergency 
premiums Mrs D paid. I say this because, as Im satisfied Esure hasnt mis-sold Mrs Ds 
policy to her, it isnt something Id have asked it to do as part of this decision.I appreciate that Mrs D isnt happy that the policy she purchased didnt provide the level of 
home emergency cover she wanted or needed. But, having considered the sales process, 
and the policy terms and conditions, Im not satisfied Esure provided Mrs D with information 
about home emergency cover in an unfair or misleading way or in a manner that prevented 
her from being able to make an informed choice about whether the cover shed purchased 
was suitable This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold. And, because her home 
emergency insurance doesnt cover roof damage, I think the terms of that policy have been 
applied fairly.
I realise Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Esure informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs 
D further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman