DRN-4355458
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows (trading as Clerical Medical) mismanaged his 
stakeholder pension plan. 
What happened
In 2002, Mr M took out a stakeholder pension plan with Scottish Widows that had a lifestyle 
strategy in place. In 2005, Mr M transferred other funds in, for which a lifestyle strategy 
wasnt applied. In January 2022, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr M and said that if he didnt let 
it know what he wanted to do by his upcoming selected retirement age (SRA) of 65 it would 
extend this to 75. And, on 6 April 2022, Scottish Widows sent Mr M an annual statement 
which said his total policy value was worth £215,113.16, of which around £148,000 was 
invested in lifestyle funds. 
On 21 June 2022, after sending Mr M a reminder about his SRA, Scottish Widows confirmed 
it had changed this to 75 as it hadnt received a response. It said that, in line with policy 
terms, it had switched Mr Ms lifestyle funds to mirror the final stage of his strategy. And that 
Mr M could contact it to invest in other funds or change his SRA. The same day, it wrote to 
Mr M and confirmed that his investments in the Lifestyle Retirement Protection and Lifestyle 
Halifax funds had been switched into the non-lifestyle equivalents, called the Retirement 
Protection and Halifax funds, and it sent him a switch statement. 
 
On 12 July 2022, Scottish Widows sent Mr M information that said his current policy value 
totalled £195,438.46 and it enclosed a statement with further details. And, on 28 July 2022, 
following a call from Mr M, it re-sent the June 2022 statement and referred him to its website 
for fund factsheets. 
Mr M went on to write to Scottish Widows on a few occasions. He said, in summary, that it 
hadnt confirmed his investments, provided details of switches made in recent years or 
explained why it made these without his knowledge or approval. Including out of the Lifestyle 
Cautious and Lifestyle Non-equity funds into the Retirement Protection fund, which was 
failing despite the low-risk description. Mr M said that, while he couldnt find information 
about this fund on Scottish Widows website, others said the value had fallen by 30%. And 
that the June 2022 statement only showed the sale of some of his units in lifestyle funds. 
In response, Scottish Widows said that the lifestyle strategy meant that as Mr M approached 
his SRA of 65, his investments gradually moved to the final Lifestyle Retirement Protection 
and Lifestyle Halifax funds. And that upon reaching this Mr Ms SRA was changed to 75 and 
he was switched into the non-lifestyle equivalents as per its process, as the 10-year lifestyle 
balancing to lower risk funds completed and it didnt hear back with alternative instructions. It 
enclosed a switch statement and said that a technical issue meant details of the Retirement 
Protection fund were temporarily removed from its website. And it confirmed that Mr Ms 
investments from the transfer in 2005 were unaffected by lifestyling. 
On 5 October 2022, Scottish Widows offered Mr M £50 compensation for recently sending 
him information hed asked for at the start of August 2022. It confirmed that his transfer to 
another provider had been completed. And it sent Mr M a closing statement with an 
investment breakdown that showed a total plan value of £170,627.10, of which £105,690 
was invested in the Retirement Protection and Halifax funds.  
After writing to Scottish Widows again, Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. He added, 
in summary, that while the investment strategy was meant to be lower risk, the value 
dropped by around £50,000 within six months. Mr M said that Scottish Widows continued to 
invest his plan in funds failing to perform as described and that he wasnt told the risks. Mr M 
also said that Scottish Widows didnt send him information when requested, so he couldnt 
monitor that his pot was falling  he first received details of switches made since April 2022 
in the October 2022 closing statement. And that he couldnt see the value of the Retirement 
Protection fund on its website, even after it said he would be able to.
Scottish Widows later offered Mr M a further £200 compensation for poor service and delay 
in responding to him, taking the total amount offered to £250.
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Scottish Widows followed the agreed 
investment approach and that it wasnt responsible for the fall in value, which was outside its 
control. He said that it had suggested Mr M seek advice or provide alternative investment 
instructions if he wasnt happy with these. And that he felt £250 in compensation was fair 
and reasonable to make up for the service it provided Mr M with. 
Mr M didnt agree. He added, in summary, that Scottish Widows lack of transparency and 
mismanagement caused him a substantial loss. Mr M said that it didnt tell him what actions 
it would take if his SRA was deferred, including increasing his investment in the Retirement 
Protection fund that had been failing since the end of 2021. So he didnt know he needed to 
take action before transferring to another provider. Mr M believes Scottish Widows did this to 
prop itself up, instead of protecting his pot and that it concealed fund information from its 
website. Mr M said that its well known that an increase in inflation and subsequent rise in 
interest rates would result in the fall of bond values. He also said Scottish Widows didnt 
make it clear that it was subcontracting management of lifestyle investments to a competing 
business, which couldnt have had his best interests in hand in that case. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mr M will be disappointed, Im not asking Scottish Widows to 
do anything more for largely the same reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
The application Mr M completed when he took out his plan clearly said that if he didnt make 
an investment selection  I can see that he didnt  then this would be invested in the 
Balanced lifestyle programme. Lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage risks in the run up 
to someones SRA, by gradually and automatically making changes which involve moving 
investments out of equity type investments and into fixed interest investments, such as gilts 
and bonds. These usually exhibit lower volatility over the long term. And gilts and annuity 
rates tend to move in opposite directions such that when interest rates increase, the value of 
long gilts go down and annuity rates go up. So the aim is that the level of retirement income 
is less likely to dramatically change if these move up or down in the run up to retirement.
I havent seen anything to suggest Scottish Widows provided Mr M with advice when he took 
out his plan or that it was responsible for doing so. This means it was responsible for administering this, providing him with clear, fair and not mis-leading information and ensuring 
it followed the investment strategy. 
I think Mr M is likely to have been provided with information about the lifestyle strategy at the 
time, which explained that Scottish Widows would automatically make certain fund changes 
as he approached his SRA. Mr Ms annual statements said this and, while these didnt 
remind him which lifestyle strategy he was invested in, these clearly set out which funds 
were part of this and invited him to call with questions. In August 2018, Scottish Widows sent 
Mr M a guide that set out the strategies and explained that his funds would automatically 
start to be switched 10 years from his SRA. In September 2019, it reminded Mr M that his 
plan invested in a lifestyle strategy which assumed hed buy an annuity at retirement. And, in 
September 2021, after Mr M asked it for information in July 2021, Scottish Widows sent him 
a breakdown of how his funds moved as part of lifestyling. 
So Scottish Widows didnt need to receive a specific request from Mr M to make the 
switches it did. And I think it provided Mr M with enough information to make him reasonably 
aware of this and how his pension would be invested. 
Mr M said that Scottish Widows January 2022 letter didnt tell him the actions it would take 
in respect of his investments if his SRA was deferred, including increasing his investment in 
the Retirement Protection fund. But Scottish Widows has explained that the 10-year lifestyle 
balancing remained based on Mr Ms SRA of 65. So I dont think this changed the switching 
it had already clearly explained that it would carry out. And Im not persuaded Mr M would 
have provided alternative instructions if Scottish Widows had confirmed this in its letter. I say 
this because, despite evidence that Mr M was extremely concerned with the performance of 
his already significant investment in the Retirement Protection fund as early as July 2021 
and that he knew he didnt want to take an annuity in retirement at that point, theres nothing 
to suggest he provided any alternative instructions. 
Scottish Widows was responsible for following the investment strategy set out, while it was 
for Mr M to monitor the investment performance and decide whether or not these remained 
suitable for him. Mr Ms plan  excluding that which hed transferred in 2005  was invested 
in the Retirement Protection and the Halifax fund in line with what Scottish Widows guide 
set out that it should be at his SRA of 65. So I think it correctly followed the investment 
strategy set out in his case, in the absence of alternative instructions. 
While lifestyle strategies usually seek to manage investment risks, these dont eliminate it. 
Fixed interest investments can still fall in value and sharply. And this was the case here, as 
Mr Ms investment in the Retirement Protection fund  which largely invests in gilts  fell with 
sharp declines between June and September 2022. Scottish Widows has explained this was 
a result of market conditions though. This isnt something it could control and the funds 
appear to have achieved similar returns to the appropriate benchmark indices, indicating this 
performed broadly in line with comparable funds. 
I think Scottish Widows made Mr M reasonably aware of the risks, as it explained in his 
annual statements that the amounts shown arent guaranteed, his income at retirement 
could be higher or lower and it couldnt promise that this was what hed receive. It told Mr M 
to ensure his investments remained suitable for him, recommending he seek advice. And the 
letter Scottish Widows sent to Mr M in September 2019 said that, while the lifestyle strategy 
aimed to protect his pension as he approached retirement, there were no guarantees, as did 
its January 2022 letter.
Mr M said Scottish Widows didnt send him information to monitor his investments until 
October 2022. While I recognise the June 2022 statement didnt reflect all the lifestyle 
switches that had taken place, Scottish Widows sent Mr M details of his investments on     12 July 2022 to his correct address. This said his total plan value was £195,438.46 and that 
the enclosed statement detailed his holdings, fund allocation and unit prices. Mr M could 
have compared this to his April 2022 statement, which showed a total plan value of 
£215,113.16. And while Mr M couldnt access information about the Retirement Protection 
fund on Scottish Widows website, he was able to obtain it from other websites. So I think   
Mr M had enough information to monitor the performance of his investments. And, in any 
case, Mr M didnt provide Scottish Widows with alternative instructions to minimise his 
losses despite having been unhappy with the performance for some time, until he later 
decided to transfer to another provider.   
While I appreciate Mr Ms unhappy with the business Scottish Widows uses to manage the 
investments within its lifestyle profile, this is a commercial decision and it isnt something       
I can interfere with  thats the role of the regulator of financial businesses. I think it made 
this information clear in the guide provided to Mr M in 2018. And, in any event and for the 
above reasons, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Ms plan was mismanaged. 
The service Scottish Widows provided Mr M with could have been better at times though. 
For example, the June 2022 switch statement it sent to him wasnt complete and he couldnt 
access some fund information on its website for some time. But Scottish Widows has 
apologised and offered Mr M £250 in total compensation and I think thats a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances to make up for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused to him. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr M 
£250 in total compensation, if it hasnt already done so. Im not asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman