DRN-3444299
The complaint
Miss C and Mr R, through a representative, complaint that Short Term Finance Limited 
(STFL) lent to them irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from STFLs records it has sent us, here is a brief table of the approved 
loans. 
Loan Date Taken Principal Term and Weekly 
RepaymentsDate Repaid
1 01/08/2016 £200 16 x £20 15/11/2016
2 19/12/2016 £200 16 x £20 03/04/2017
3 03/04/2017 £250 16 x £25 18/07/2017
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that STFL had carried out 
proportionate checks and had not done anything wrong. The case was closed and then re-
opened when the representative for the complainants contacted us to say they wished to 
have an ombudsman review the complaint. So, it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C and 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the income 
and expenditure figures for Miss C and Mr R.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income).
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
STFL was required to establish whether Miss C and Mr R could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs and Mr Rs complaint.
Here is a brief table I have created to show the income and expenditure details Miss C and 
Mr R gave to the STFL agent at the time they were applying for the loans. 
Loan Combined 
weekly 
income 
(rounded)Combined 
weekly 
expenditureCalculated 
disposable 
income 
(rounded)Loan 
repayments 
each weekAny balance 
paid off with 
this loan?
1 £584 £247 £337 £20
2 £563 £157 £405 £20
3 £346 £146 £200 £25 £20 balance 
from Loan 2
Im aware that there was a small gap in lending between Miss C and Mr R paying off loan 1 
and applying for loan 2.
I note that the capital sums were relatively low in value and the terms were short  around 
16 weeks. Ive seen from the STFL records that there were no repayment problems such 
that STFL ought to have been placed on alert that there may have been an issue. The total 
lending relationship was less than a year and there was a month gap within that time.
I have noted that the joint income reduced at the loan 3 application date but Ive received 
nothing to explain why.
There was no regulatory requirement for STFL to obtain credit bureau information.
Miss C and Mr R are professionally represented and despite asking for an ombudsman to 
make a decision on the complaint, they have sent no additional supporting information, evidence or explanations to explain why they think that STFL was irresponsible in lending 
these loans to them.
Having reviewed it all I have concluded that STFL carried out proportionate checks and that 
it did not need to do more than it did. And the information it obtained does not lead me to 
think that STFL would have considered these loans unaffordable. 
I do not uphold the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman