DRN-1371630
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Tradex Insurance Company limited declined a claim 
made on its commercial motor insurance policy. This complaint is brought on As behalf by 
Mr A, its director. He wants the claim paid in full. 
What happened
Mr A was driving his sons car when he had an accident. He made a claim to Tradex as he 
thought he was covered to drive any car under his motor trade policy. But Tradex declined 
the claim as it said the car wasnt personally owned by Mr A.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr As 
policy didnt allow him to drive cars other than those he personally owned or that were 
connected to his motor trade business. 
Mr A replied that he transferred money to his son each month to pay the finance of the car. 
He said he needed to be able to drive any car in his possession. He said the car was on his 
policy. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was driving a car where his son was the cars owner and registered keeper and the 
finance was in his sons name. Tradex said it declined his claim for accidental damage as 
there was no evidence that the car was personally owned by Mr A. It said there was no 
evidence that Mr A had bought the car. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that As policy covers vehicles that are personally owned by Mr A and declared for 
inclusion on the Motor Insurance Database (MID). Personally owned is defined as
A vehicle personally registered, leased or hired under a hire purchase agreement to the 
policyholder vehicle(s) or to an employee, director or partner of the business or a spouse 
and specifically insured by this policy.
The car in question was declared on As policy for inclusion on MID. But it wasnt personally 
owned by Mr A as his son was the cars owner and registered keeper. This was shown by 
the V5 registration document. And the finance was in his name. 
Mr A has shown evidence that he makes a transfer to his son each month of an amount to 
cover the finance repayments for the car. But this doesnt change the fact that the financial 
agreement was in his sons name. Ive not seen that Mr A provided Tradex with proof of his 
purchase of the car. So I think Tradex reasonably concluded that the car wasnt personally 
owned by Mr A. 
Ive also looked at As policy and I can see that Mr A isnt covered for driving other vehicles, 
but he is covered for driving personally owned vehicles. Mr As son isnt covered for either of 
these categories. Hes also excluded from driving cars with the engine size of the car he 
owned. So I think Tradex reasonably concluded that he wouldnt be covered on the policy for 
this car. 
Mr A said he was covered for driving cars in connection with his motor trade business. I 
agree that the policy covers cars being driven in connection with the declared motor trade 
business. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr A was driving the car for this purpose. 
When he notified the claim, he said he was using the car for social, domestic or personal 
reasons. 
Mr A said he was mis-sold the policy as he wanted to be able to drive any car. But I think this 
is a complaint about his brokers sale of the policy, not about his claim. So I cant look at this 
here. I think A should first complain to its broker if it thinks the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman