DRN-1168374
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with how much Studio Retail Limited say she owes them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms Rs account was previous settled in May 2019, so Ive only reviewed whats 
happened since then.
Ms R returned a spinning light worth £8.99 that she bought in May. The postage and 
packing for that item was paid back to her but the £8.99 wasnt refunded.
This led to charges being applied to Ms Rs account.
And, as Ms R was then confused about what items should still be on her account, it 
meant she stopped making payments and further late payment and interest charges 
were added. I dont think this would have been likely to happen if the returned item 
had been credited.
Ms R has explained that she has the 20 solar lights she bought on 20 May and has 
three of the four spinning lights that she bought on 30 May. That means that £52.34 
is still owed for these items once the return is taken into account. That should be the 
account balance.
Putting things right
Studio Retail Limited should remove all the late fees, charges and interest that it has applied 
to Ms Rs account since 21 May 2019. They should remove any reference to these from 
Ms Rs credit file too. Thats because I think its reasonable to suggest their mistake, in not 
removing the charge for the spinning light, led to confusion and resulted in 
Ms R not paying for items she didnt think should be on her account.
Theyll need to refund the spinning light too. The final account balance should be £52.34.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part. Studio Retail Limited should therefore:
ensure the account balance is £52.34 and, if Ms R has paid more than that when 
settling her account, they should make a refund of the difference;
refund the £8.99 for the spinning light return;
remove any report they may have made to the credit reference agencies about late 
payments since May 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman