DRN-4103828
The complaint
Mrs B complains Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) didnt tell her a better rate of 
interest was available on other deposit accounts they offered. Shes assisted in bringing this 
complaint by her husband Mr B.
What happened
In October 2022 Mrs B received a statement showing the rate on interest paid on her 
account. She told us was lower than she received on other comparable accounts she held 
elsewhere at the time. After a number of attempts to discuss this with Close Brothers she 
complained that they hadnt given her notice of the reduction in rates and hadnt told her 
about other products they offered which would have paid her a better rate.
Close Brothers didnt uphold the complaint. In its Final Response letter of 29 September 
2022 it said it regretted Mrs B was unhappy with the present rate and the wait times she 
experienced when calling them to discuss her concerns. They told her they didnt send 
existing customers details of new products primarily as many hadnt given consent to be 
contacted for marketing purposes but were working on a solution to this as they were keen 
to promote their products to everyone. It said that any new products they did offer were 
available to new and existing customers on their website. In a further Final Response sent 
on 3 February 2023 the said a letter informing Mrs B of the rate reduction was sent two 
months before it happened, on 10 July 2020. And as Mrs B hadnt contacted Close Brothers 
to discuss her options the account remains unchanged. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered 
Mrs B a penalty free immediate closure or transfer of her account.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought there was no evidence Close 
Brothers had ever said they would inform customers of new products. So she thought it 
hadnt acted unfairly by following its process. She thought the offer of the penalty free 
transfer was a fair way to resolve matters. 
Mrs B disagreed. She told us she was confident shed have opted to receive marketing 
information when opening the account. And she hadnt received any mailing from the bank 
notifying her of the reduced rate from 10 September 2020. She didnt think it was the 
responsibility of a deposit account customer to visit the website regularly to identify changes 
in rates or products with a deposit account. She felt such a deposit account was well suited 
for the bank to give its customers all the notice and advice they needed. And that the bank 
hadnt acted in line with either the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) banking code 
(BCOBS) or its guidance on the fair treatment of customers.
The investigator, after considering Mrs Bs comments, didnt change her view. She felt, 
regardless of the marketing preferences set, Close Brothers hadnt made an error by not 
sending Mrs B new product information.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter and sent further comments for the 
ombudsman to consider which Ive read.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
Mrs B has raised several points in her submissions to this service, both before and after the 
investigator issued her view. Ive understood and looked into all of those but Ive only 
commented on what I thinks vital in my decision. Ive come to the conclusion this is a 
complaint I cant properly uphold. Ill explain my reasons for thinking that. 
The additional terms set on out on the application form required Close Brothers to give Mrs 
B notification by post of any negative changes to the rate of interest. Ive seen copies of the 
letter sent on 10 July and the reminder on 24 August 2020. So, although I acknowledge Mrs 
B said she didnt get these letters from Close Brothers, on balance, I am satisfied they were 
sent. I dont know why it is that Mrs B has not been receiving her mail, but I cannot safely 
conclude that this is as a result of something that Close Brothers has done wrong. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold it responsible for this.
I know Mrs B thinks it isnt the responsibility of a deposit account customer to visit the 
website regularly to identify changes in rates or products with a deposit account but I 
disagree. Firstly she, as the account holder, is ultimately responsible for the management of 
the account. And secondly, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Close Brothers 
have given her the notice required here under the terms.
I havent seen details of the higher rates paid on other accounts Close Brothers are said to 
have offered at the time Mrs Bs rate reduced. But I dont think the matters. Even if such 
accounts were in place theres no suggestion the products werent available to both existing 
and new customers. And theres a concession in both the notification and reminder letters 
from 2020 offering customers the option to close the account, without notice or penalty.
Similarly, although I havent seen details of the marketing preferences Mrs B expressed, it 
doesnt change my overall view here. As, even if I accept shed opted in, that didnt oblige 
Close Brothers to send her new product information. 
So, whilst I appreciate why Mrs B - as an investor wishing to maximise the interest earned 
on her deposit account - is frustrated, I think Close Brothers have met their responsibilities 
within the account terms, so I cant uphold the complaint.
Overall, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Close Brothers need to take any further 
action here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman