DRN-3504966
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr C explained that he received notification from Barclays of a suspicious transaction on his 
account. When he contacted Barclays, he found that a payment had been made to another 
account in a name he didnt recognise. Mr C explained that at the time of the payment, he 
had his phone and debit card in his possession, and he hadnt given them to anyone else to 
use. 
Mr C requested a refund from Barclays who investigated the transaction. After theyd looked 
into it, they declined to refund Mr C because they believed he was responsible. Mr C 
complained about the lack of refund, but Barclays didnt change their position and declined 
Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy with how his complaint had been handled and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr Cs complaint was looked into 
by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about what had 
happened. Mr C explained he hadnt used his phone or his Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) 
app on the day of the disputed transaction.
Barclays provided information concerning the use of Mr Cs BMB and how the payment was 
arranged. Barclays confirmed that the payment had initially been flagged as suspicious but 
later released. It was confirmed that Mr Cs debit card details were needed to confirm the 
payment because it was to a new payee. 
Our investigator thought Mr C was likely responsible for making the transaction and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed and thought hed been the victim of a hack after 
changing his phone around the time of the disputed transaction and providing his bank 
details to a mobile phone provider.
Mr C asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr C authorised 
the transaction, but Barclays cannot say that the use of  Barclays internet banking app 
(BMB) conclusively proves that the payment was authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Cs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transaction. It shows that the transaction was authenticated using the payment tools issued 
to Mr C. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr C responsible for the disputed transaction or 
not. 
Mr C believes he was the victim of a hack. Barclays believe Mr C was responsible due to 
the evidence of the use of his BMB and how the payment was confirmed with details from Mr 
Cs debit card. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence.
Barclays information includes details of the device used to access Mr Cs BMB, which in this 
case is a phone registered by Mr C and used regularly or without issue prior to the disputed 
transaction appearing on the account. What that means here is that Mr Cs registered phone 
was used to set up the new payee, from a consistent IP address and used Mr Cs security 
details to access the BMB and details from the debit card to confirm the payment.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
I appreciate that Mr C believes the IP address data had been manipulated to make it look 
like it was his consistent location, but theres no evidence to suggest that happened here.
Mr C told our service that he changed his phone because his original one may have been 
hacked. Ive looked at the activity of Mr Cs device and can see that it was used to 
repeatedly logon to his BMB prior to the disputed transaction taking place. The disputed 
transaction then took place shortly after the last recorded login. The IP address was also 
consistent throughout the logon activity, including other undisputed payments made from the 
account using the same IP address with Mr Cs registered device and phone number.
Barclays confirmed that Mr Cs debit card details were also needed to confirm the payment, 
and once these were provided they released it. As Mr C remained in possession of both his 
phone and debit card, I dont think its plausible that someone else was able to gain access 
to his phone at the same location normally used by Mr C, obtain the security passcode to his 
BMB and know the details required from his debit card without Mr C being aware. 
Mr C believes that because Barclays initially identified a possible problem with the payment, 
theyre responsible because they later released it. Barclays do have a role to play in 
protecting customers funds and preventing them from being scammed. But here, once they 
were satisfied that the payment was legitimate, they released it. Barclays have told our 
service that once they received the details from the debit card, they were able to proceed 
with the payment. Whilst I understand Mr Cs point, the issue for me to consider is were 
Barclays entitled to process the payment based on the instructions they received from Mr C. 
Essentially  does the evidence point to Mr C authorising the payment? 
While Im sure Mr C will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
objective conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr 
C authorised the transaction. So, taking everything into account, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr C responsible for this transaction.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman