DRN-3463607
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her after she lost money to a purchase 
scam.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in July 2021 Miss C made a payment transfer of 
£200 to an individual she believed was selling festival tickets. Unfortunately the individual 
was in fact a fraudster and Miss C received nothing in return.
Miss C had begun corresponding with the individual via a social media platform after 
querying on the platforms forum page if anyone had tickets for sale, as she was looking to 
purchase one for a friend. The fraudster responded advising he had a ticket that hed 
purchased, intending to go himself, but had since realised the minimum age restriction was 
18 and as he was still 17, he didnt want to risk it. The fraudster explained he was aware 
there were lots of scammers about, so sent Miss C details of all his social media pages, his 
email address, home address, a copy of his passport and a letter addressed to his home, to 
demonstrate he was a genuine seller. The fraudster also provided a screenshot of the ticket 
he claimed to have, which was shown from a genuine ticket operators website. The 
fraudster asked Miss C for her friends email to provide to the ticket operator to transfer the 
ticket.
Miss C explained she checked the fraudsters social media page and found nothing 
concerning. Having already bought a ticket herself for the same festival, Miss C also thought 
the price being offered was in line with what shed expected to pay. On this basis she agreed 
to proceed with the sale. The fraudster had initially told Miss C he accepted PayPal, but 
when completing the sale, advised her it wasnt working. On this basis Miss C agreed to pay 
by bank transfer.
When attempting to make a transfer to the fraudster, Miss C received a message from her 
online banking to confirm the payee details shed provided didnt match the account name 
registered. The warning read as follows: 
Details dont match account
The name you entered doesnt match the name on the records
If Miss C clicked to continue, the next screen read:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
If youre not sure, cancel this payment. Once you make a payment, its almost entirely 
impossible for us to get the money back.
Miss C questioned the fraudster on this  he explained the account was a childrens account 
and he wasnt sure if it was registered in his birth name or the surname his mother had later 
changed his to. After two failed attempts, the fraudster suggested Miss C send the payment 
directly to his mother and provided a womans bank details with a differing surname. This 
time the payment details were confirmed as matching and Miss C made the payment. When 
making the payment, Miss C received the following warning message from Monzo:
New payee warning
Could this payment be to someone trying to scam you? If you have any doubts (for example 
you dont personally know the recipient) get some advice.
Bear in mind that once you make a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money 
back.
Miss C wouldve needed to confirm shed understood this message before receiving this 
further warning:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if:
-You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
-The offer sounds too good to be true
-You havent double-checked who youre paying
-You were told to ignore warnings like this
You may lose money if this is a scam
If youre still at all unsure, stop and get advice.
Well never call you out of the blue
Again Miss C needed to confirm she wished to continue with the payment in order to 
proceed.
When Miss C didnt receive a ticket and questioned the fraudster, he provided fake 
documentation from his bank suggesting it was processing a refund. A page was also 
created on the social media platform Miss C had sued warning about this seller and others 
who had fallen victim to the same scam. Realising shed been the victim of a scam herself, 
Miss C contacted Monzo to make a claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo considers Miss C didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
genuine purchase. It said Miss C shouldve completed more checks to confirm the legitimacy 
of who she was paying. It also considers Miss C ignored an effective warning it provided 
during the payment process.
Miss C feels she should be refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full 
refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss C 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss C 
lost.
The money was taken from Miss Cs current account. It is not clear how Miss C 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year from the date Metro Bank decided not to refund Miss C under the CRM 
Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Miss C had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Miss C failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
For a warning to be effective under the CRM Code, it needs to be specific to the 
scam the individual fell victim to. In this case, most of Monzos warning isnt specific 
to the scam, so I dont think it would have had the required impact on Miss Cs 
decision making. Miss C wasnt told her account was at risk, the price of the tickets 
she was paying was in line with what she was expecting and she wasnt told to 
ignore warnings like this. I therefore dont think the warning on the whole would have 
resonated with Miss C as being relevant to her.
The only part of the warning that has any relevance to Miss Cs circumstances is the 
guidance to double check who youre paying, but I dont consider this alone makes 
the warning effective for this scam  it doesnt set out other key hallmarks of 
purchase scams to be specific enough to Miss C and therefore lacks the impact 
required to be effective under the Code. 
Im also satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Miss C lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
The fraudster provided a lot of personal information about the individual they 
purported to be, to build Miss Cs trust in them that this was a genuine person she 
was communicating with. I can understand why, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Miss C would be reassured by this, as you wouldnt expect someone to 
provide details of their address and all their communication platforms if they planned 
to not provide what theyd promised.
I entirely appreciate that Miss C went on to pay someone different to who she 
thought she was communicating with  but I think the circumstances surrounding this 
were plausible. Miss C had rightly questioned previous account details not matching 
the intended recipient, which the scammer provided a reasonable response to. He 
then suggested Miss C pay his mum  whose account details did match. While the surname may have differed to who Miss C had been speaking to, I dont consider it to 
be a particularly unusual situation for a mother and son to have differing surnames. I 
also dont realistically think there was much Miss C couldve done to check the 
legitimacy of this claim. I think in Miss Cs mind, she had done all she could to check 
the person she was corresponding with was genuine, shed checked his online 
platform and had several pieces of identification. I think that with this in mind, Miss C 
was reasonable to conclude he was acting in a genuine and legitimate capacity at 
this point, and therefore what he was telling her was truthful.
Monzo has stated that its not enough to explain why someone fell victim to a scam  
and that you must also argue the steps they took to prevent themselves from falling 
victim. However I dont agree with that statement  failure to undertake validating 
actions should not in itself lead to a decision not to reimburse  its important a firm 
views a customers actions in context of the overall circumstances. In this case, Miss 
C was provided with a lot of persuasive information to convince her in the first 
instance that this was a genuine seller  freely receiving identification from them, 
apparent evidence of them owning a ticket and a plausible reason why the ticket was 
for sale. In any event, when faced with potential red flags such as payee details not 
matching the intended account, Miss C did question this and received answers that I 
think were fair for a person acting reasonably to accept as true.
Monzo has said that the genuine ticket platform the scammer claimed to have 
purchased from had a resale option that clearly showed tickets can only be paid for 
with debit and credit cards, that tickets werent currently for sale and that Miss C 
moved the chat away from this platform to a less trusted and monitored platform to 
complete the sale. However, Miss C has explained that the resale option wasnt yet 
open for this particular festival, as that only happens nearer the time of the event and 
that she knew this from having been numerous times. Miss C never spoke to the 
fraudster on the ticket platform, only through a different social media platform and so 
didnt choose to move her chat away from a more trusted source. I also dont think 
the ticket platforms accepted payment options are therefore relevant, as Miss C 
wasnt ever choosing to pay through this platform  she had agreed with the seller 
that he would transfer the ticket over through the ticket platform after payment, which 
is an entirely different service the ticket operator offers. 
I therefore dont think there was anything about how this sale was agreed that 
demonstrates Miss C didnt show due diligence, particularly considering the relatively 
low value of the payment she was making and therefore the comparable checks I 
would expect a customer to conduct.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Miss C lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief for making the transaction in question, or that it provided her with an effective 
warning before making the payment. Monzo should therefore refund the funds Miss C lost to 
the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss C the £200 she lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined Miss Cs claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman