DRN-2085099
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc is holding him liable for debit card transactions 
which he says he neither made nor authorised.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary of events here.
Mr B has disputed transactions totalling just over £8,000 - which comprise of three ATM 
withdrawals totalling £600, one branch withdrawal for £2,000 and two retail debit card 
payments totalling over £5,400. These were carried out across two days in May 2019. Mr B 
has said he did not make or authorise anyone else to carry out these transactions. He says 
he has not shared his PIN with anyone, nor did he have it written down anywhere. 
On 12 May 2019 Mr B logged into his online banking and noticed several transactions that 
he did not recognise. He said he checked his wallet and saw that one of his debit cards was 
missing. He contacted Barclays immediately to cancel his card and report the unauthorised 
use. He explained he hadnt noticed the card missing sooner as he has another account with 
Barclays, the card for which, he regularly uses. He does not generally use the card for the 
account from which the disputed transactions took place as it was primarily used as a 
savings account. He wasnt sure when and how his debit card for this account had gone 
missing, especially since he was still in possession of his wallet containing all his other cards 
and driving licence. Mr B suggested what he believed could be several possible points of 
compromise. He was advised to contact the police  which he did. 
Barclays investigated Mr Bs fraud claim. It considered the ATM withdrawals, branch 
withdrawal and retail transaction claims separately. In short, based on the information 
available at the time, Barclays couldnt establish a satisfactory point of compromise for 
Mr Bs PIN or his date of birth (which was needed for the branch withdrawal). It decided not 
to refund the disputed transactions as it concluded they were likely authorised by Mr B. And 
if accepting the card was stolen it can only conclude the PIN wouldve been available with 
the card in a recognisable format. So it could hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions 
as he failed to keep his PIN safe and was in breach of his account terms and conditions. 
Mr B didnt agree with Barclays decision and so he brought his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he strongly feels Barclays have failed to treat him fairly. His main concerns are 
that it was unwilling and did not check CCTV, accused him of having his PIN written down, 
failed to identify the unusual nature of the activity compared to his historic account usage 
and generally provided poor service whilst handling his fraud claim. He says hes been a 
victim of fraud and doesnt feel Barclays has done enough. He wants Barclays to refund all 
the disputed transactions.  
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She concluded that on 
balance, she wasnt satisfied that the disputed transactions were made by a third party 
without Mr Bs consent.
Mr B disagrees with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr B was suffering from health issues and this whole experience 
added to what was already a difficult time. I understand hed worked hard to build those 
savings and the sum lost is significant to him. I see why he feels so strongly that his money 
should be returned to him, and why he does not accept what Barclays and our investigator 
have said. 
But the decision I need to make here is whether or not I think Mr B authorised the 
transactions. Generally, Barclays can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. If 
Im satisfied that he did, then I couldnt fairly ask Barclays to refund him.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. And determine what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Bs complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). In short, Barclays is 
generally required to refund any unauthorised transactions. Mr B says he didnt make or 
consent to the disputed transactions and they are unauthorised. 
After reviewing the banks technical evidence Im satisfied that Mr Bs genuine card, PIN and 
date of birth (for the branch withdrawal) were used to make the disputed transactions. But 
the PSRs 2017 say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
Mr B consented to the transactions being made. And from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
a third party  without Mr Bs consent carried out the transactions. Ill explain why.
- I accept what Mr B has said about his PIN being changed to something more 
recognisable to him, that he had not shared it with anyone, nor did he keep it written 
down in an identifiable format with his card as Barclays have suggested.
- But for an unknown third party to have carried out the disputed transactions, they 
wouldve needed Mr Bs card, PIN and date of birth. Mr B has provided a possible 
explanation for how an unknown third party was able to obtain all three. He says on 
the first day of the disputed transactions he visited his gym in the morning. He placed 
his wallet containing several bank cards and his driving licence into a secure locker. 
Mr B says there was no obvious signs of his locker having been broken into, so he 
thinks someone might have overseen him set his locker PIN (which he says was the 
same as his cards PIN), used this to enter his locker, took his card and noted down 
his date of birth from his driving licence. Mr B says he spoke to the gym who told him 
theyd had similar reports before of items being stolen from lockers, but no CCTV 
was available in that area. Ive thought about what Mr B has said but I think this is 
unlikely as his testimony with respect to his recollection of events has been inconsistent. In response to this he has said, that he was in shock when he first 
contacted Barclays  which explains the inconsistencies in his testimony and why he 
may not have remembered certain events (such as the whereabouts of his wallet)  
but later did. Ive thought about what he has said in relation to each of the 
inconsistencies and whilst it might provide an explanation for some  it doesnt others 
 specifically Mr B telling our investigator he couldnt be sure if he used his cards 
PIN for his locker code. I also note Mr B doesnt recall whether anyone was around 
him that couldve observed him enter his PIN. Im afraid that this does impact on the 
credibility of his evidence.  For these reasons Im not persuaded on balance this is 
what happened here. Of all the possible explanations, I think, its most likely the 
transactions were carried out with Mr Bs consent. 
- There is also no convincing explanation for how an unknown third party couldve 
possibly known which card belonged to the account containing all of Mr Bs savings 
or known if I were to accept (which to be clear I dont) that the PIN set for his locker 
corresponded to that particular card. There were also no incorrect PIN attempts. This 
simply might be the case of an opportunist getting lucky but taking everything else 
into consideration I do think it is relevant. 
- Mr B has also suggested he may have lost the card at some other point. Someone 
couldve observed him enter his PIN when he used the card or extracted this from the 
cards chip. Firstly, Ive not heard of any cases where a PIN has been extracted from 
a card, but even if that were the case or someone had observed him enter it, neither 
would explain how the unknown third party wouldve known his date of birth (which 
they did when making the branch withdrawal). So I think its unlikely that this is what 
happened.  
- Mr B has suggested the frequent balance enquires carried out, particularly just before 
a disputed transaction took place arent characteristic of a person authorised to use 
the card or the account holder  rather a fraudster checking to ensure the account 
hasnt been blocked. I take on board the point Mr B is trying to make but I do 
however note that the first disputed withdrawal (in branch) took place more than two 
hours after the first balance enquiry. An opportunist will generally remove all 
available funds, over the shortest possible timeframe, to maximise their gain before 
the card is identified as missing and blocked. I wouldve expected a fraudster to try to 
use the card almost immediately, not wait two hours and I think its unlikely that if this 
were a fraudster, they wouldve carried out a balance enquiry without also drawing 
out cash. 
- I note there was also no further use or attempted use of the card till just over a week 
after Mr B reported the matter to Barclays despite a balance of £1,500 remaining. If 
an unknown third party were responsible for the transactions, given the number of 
balance enquiries carried out they would have known there was a sizeable balance 
still available and wouldnt have known the card was blocked. So, I think its likely 
they would have tried to use the card sooner for further gain  especially since the 
last transaction it was used for (which was a couple of days before Mr B reported the 
card lost/stolen) was approved. This could be purely coincidental and on its own isnt 
conclusive, but it is unusual that the further attempted use on the card happened 
after Barclays had informed Mr B it wouldnt be refunding the disputed transactions  
citing no further use as one of the reasons. I know that Mr B strongly feels CCTV evidence would support that he wasnt involved and is 
a victim of fraud. I understand he is unhappy Barclays didnt check CCTV. But that footage 
would only ever prove whether or not he, in person, carried out the transactions. What it 
wouldnt prove is whether this was or wasnt done with his knowledge and permission. And 
the issue I need to decide isnt who physically carried out the transactions, but rather were 
these transactions authorised. 
I also know Mr B feels strongly that Barclays shouldve done more, and the transactions 
shouldve been picked up by its fraud systems as unusual.  However, as Ive concluded that 
I think its more likely the transactions were made with Mr Bs consent, I dont think I need to 
make a finding in relation to this matter. I say this because even if I were to say Barclays 
shouldve intervened (which to be clear is not what Im saying shouldve happened), for the 
reasons above I dont think it wouldve made a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
I understand Mr B was also unhappy with how Barclays handled the fraud claim. Ive listened 
to calls between Barclays and Mr B. Im satisfied it didnt act in an unprofessional manner 
although I understand why he may have felt this way as ultimately Barclays made the 
decision to hold him liable for the disputed payments  which in itself is a difficult message. 
For the reasons above, Im not persuaded that the disputed transactions were made by an 
unknown third party as Mr B has alleged. On balance, considering all the evidence, I find its 
more likely, that Mr B authorised the disputed transactions. It wouldnt therefore be fair to 
require Barclays to refund them.
Whilst I know my decision will be disappointing and isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for, I 
hope it brings some closure to this matter for him. He is not obliged to accept what Ive said, 
in which case Mr B remains free to pursue this matter by alternative means should he wish 
to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complain. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman