DRN-2829234
The complaint
Ms B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have misplaced the balance of 
her account with another building society when the two merged.
What happened
Ms B held an account with another building society which merged with Nationwide in 2008. 
Ms B says she has a passbook for the other building society which shows a balance of £100 
in 1999. Ms B says Nationwide have said they have no trace of an account in her name with 
them. Ms B feels that Nationwide have misplaced the balance of her old account with the 
other building society as she has never closed the account and has the passbook to show it 
existed. Ms B wants Nationwide to refund the balance of the account with any accrued 
interest. 
Nationwide says they have checked their systems and have no record of the account ever 
being migrated across following the merger of the two building societies. Nationwide say its 
possible the account was closed while still held with the other building society and wouldnt 
have access to this information.  
Ms B wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
The investigator says she has seen evidence that Nationwide carried out internal checks, 
which showed there wasnt any accounts transferred in Ms Bs name from the other building 
society. The investigator felt Nationwide had done all they reasonably could have, to try to 
locate the account. 
Ms B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be disappointing for Ms B to believe she still had monies held in a 
building society account, only to be told it couldnt be traced. When looking at this complaint I 
will consider if Nationwide were at fault for failing to locate the whereabouts of the balance of 
the other building society account Ms B had, when the two societies merged. 
Ms B says she never closed the account with the other building society prior to its merger 
with Nationwide in 2008, and still holds the passbook for that account as evidence. Ms B 
says her account wasnt dormant and believes it wasnt transferred to Nationwide at the time 
of the merger  she says her partner has a similar problem. 
The first thing to say is that a passbook isnt the only document required to prove an account 
exists or is needed to close the account. Other means are available to consumers to 
withdraw monies from such accounts or indeed close them, by way of other identification 
checks. It follows I cant say with any certainty that having the passbook is evidence the 
monies held in the account still existed at the time the two building societies merged. 
Its also worth mentioning that Ms Bs last recollection of the other building society account 
precedes the merger between it and Nationwide in 2008. I have seen evidence to show 
Nationwide have undertaken a thorough investigation from their records of the other building 
society accounts migrated to Nationwide. This shows, after checking names, addresses, the 
account number and date of birth on their records they werent able to locate Ms Bs missing 
account balance from the other building society. While I appreciate this may be upsetting for 
Ms B, I cant say that Nationwide havent done what they could to try and trace these 
monies.
I have considered whether or not the account with the other building society was active when 
the merger of the two societies took place. Obviously, there is no way of knowing with any 
certainty, if something took place relating to the other building society account between 1999 
and its merger with Nationwide, but even if that was the case, I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for that. 
While Ms B may not agree, on balance I am satisfied there is no evidence to support the 
other building society account remained open at the time of the merger. I say this as I cant 
accept the passbook alone is sufficient evidence for the account existing, for the reasons I 
have already given. In addition, I am satisfied thorough checks were undertaken by 
Nationwide to check if the balance was transferred following the merger. 
While Ms B will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman