DRN-2783314
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling of a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy 
with American International Group UK Limited (AIG). 
AIG uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, all references to AIG in this 
decision should be read as including those agents. 
What happened
Mr Is policy is provided as part of a package of benefits with Mr Is bank account. In August 
2020, Mr I made a claim as he had smashed the screen on his mobile phone. 
AIG told Mr I he would have to pay a £100.00 excess if he wanted it to replace the phone, or 
he could pay a £50.00 excess and take his phone to an authorised repair shop.
Mr I was not happy at that stage and so I understand did not proceed with the claim until 
mid-September 2020 when he called to proceed. Mr I opted to have the phone repaired. He 
paid the £50 excess and took the phone to the repair shop. However, the shop told him that 
AIG had not given it the right information about his phone, so it could not repair the phone. 
Mr I says he had to return home and contact AIG again. He says he was then told if he paid 
the £100 it would send him a replacement phone and he could keep his old phone. Mr I paid 
the excess but says AIG then told him it would collect the insured phone from his at the 
same time as delivering the replacement. Mr I was not happy about this and asked for the 
excess to be refunded. I understand the claim was cancelled at the beginning of October 
2020. 
Mr C is very unhappy with the service provided in response to his claim. He has made a 
number of submissions, which Ive summarised below:  
he was not told the underwriter of the policy had changed to AIG since he first took 
out the policy, or that he would have to deal with claims-handling agents. 
When he first took out the policy there was no excess to pay in the event of a claim 
and he was not notified of the change in insurance terms which introduced excess of 
£50 or £100 (dependant on the type of claim). He has provided a copy of his original 
policy documents to support this. 
He has not been sent renewal documents for the policy and only sees the premium 
leave his account. 
When he went to the repair shop, the advisor told him that the insurer gave him the
wrong IMEI number for the phone. He rang the insurer who told him to call his 
network provider for this.
He was caused stress and financial loss due to not having his phone. 
AIG says it dealt with the claim in accordance with the policy terms and says Mr I was 
provided with clear information about what would happen if it replaced the phone, including 
that it would need to collect the insured phone from him. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr I 
does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is policy is provided as part of a package of benefits with his bank account. It is up to the 
bank which insurers it places that business with; and it is the bank that is responsible for 
notifying any changes to that package to its customers. I cannot therefore look into any 
failure to inform Mr I about this, or any failure to send renewal documents or up-to-date 
policy terms, in the context of this decision against AIG. Mr I has already complained to his 
bank about this but it appears this aspect of his complaint has not been taken forward. I will 
arrange for the investigator to do that now.
The policy sets out sufficiently clearly in my opinion that a repair excess of £50, or a 
replacement excess of £100 apply to claims. And AIG is entitled to apply those policy terms, 
even if the bank failed to inform Mr I of this (which is to be reviewed). This is not, in my 
opinion, unusual or unfair. All mobile phone insurance policies Im aware of have a similar 
terms. 
It is also matter of insurance law that on an insurer providing full indemnity (which AIG would 
have done if it sent a replacement phone to Mr I) it acquires the policyholders rights over the 
insured item. So, Mr Is original phone would become AIGs property to dispose of how it 
wished, if it were to replace it under the policy.
Mr I says this was not explained to him when the replacement phone was discussed and in 
fact he had been told he could keep his original phone and the replacement. I have viewed 
the notes of that call. While I have not listened to a recording, it seems to me unlikely Mr I 
was told this. However, even if he was told he could keep his original phone by one of the 
call-handlers, this is not correct. This was clarified when AIG spoke to Mr I again to arrange 
the courier appointment and AIG would not be bound by prior statement made in error. AIG 
is entitled to keep the insured item if it is providing a replacement, so was correct in telling 
Mr I this when it tried to book the courier. 
AIG offered to deal with the claim in accordance with the policy terms  by either repairing or 
replacing the phone. I do not think it needed to do anything further. And I have not seen any 
evidence that it did anything wrong that would warrant any award in Mr Is favour. There was 
an error with the IMEI number but it is not clear why this occurred. AIG suggests, Mr I gave it 
the wrong information when he registered the claim. While I can see Mr I was put to some 
inconvenience in going to the repair shop when they could not actually repair the screen, I 
am not persuaded this was due solely to an error by AIG. 
Ultimately, Mr I chose not to go ahead with his claim, which he is entitled to do. I understand 
that any excess he paid has been refunded. However, if that has not yet been done, AIG 
should now do so.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman