DRN-3625628
The complaint
Miss C complained to Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) that it didnt 
treat her fairly when it gave her an incorrect settlement figure for a hire purchase 
agreement resulting in an outstanding debt which it is continuing to pursue.
What happened
VWFS entered into a hire purchase agreement with Miss C in June 2018, with monthly 
repayments of £355 (all figures rounded) and a total repayable of £25,431. In June 2020 
Miss C told VWFS that she wouldnt be able to meet her repayments as they were 
because of her recent circumstances, and that she could resume payments in January 
2021 when she returned to work full-time. Miss C also said that she would be working 
part-time from September 2020 and wanted to reduce her monthly payments by about 
half.
VWFS offered Miss C a three month payment deferral holiday from July to September 
2020. Her repayments were to resume in October 2020 and the monthly payments had 
been increased to £411 to cover the deferred payments. Miss C requested a further 
deferral period but VWFS didnt allow this. It didnt think Miss C would have been able to 
afford the increased monthly payments this would entail to clear another three deferred 
months within the agreement term.
Miss C told VWFS again in October 2020 that she wouldnt return to full employment until 
January 2021 and couldnt pay all of her monthly payment until then. VWFS said that Miss 
C could make partial payments but her account would show as being in arrears. In 
January 2021 Miss C explained that shed been on furlough and wasnt likely to be 
returning to work full-time due to the pandemic.
VWFS explained her options. Miss C could sell the vehicle privately or to a dealer; part- 
exchange the car and enter into a new financial agreement for another car; or voluntarily 
terminate the agreement, which meant shed need to pay up to 50% of the total amount 
payable plus any arrears. The customer contact notes show that VWFS had provided 
various settlement and voluntary termination figures over the time of the agreement. Miss 
C received a letter in May 2021 confirming the latest settlement figure of £12,706. I 
understand that she then paid off this amount by part-exchanging the car and entering 
into a new finance agreement with VWFS for another car.
The following month Miss C got in touch with VWFS to ask about an arrears letter shed 
received. She was advised that, although shed been told that the settlement figure was 
all that was required to settle her account in full, this figure didnt include arrears of 
£2,464 which had accrued during the period from July 2020 to April 2021 when she 
either hadnt paid her full monthly rental or had made a partial payment. VWFS offered 
to reduce the outstanding arrears balance to £2,000 and to set up a repayment plan for 
this. Miss C declined this offer and brought her complaint to us shortly afterwards.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint. They found that had Miss C been 
given the correct settlement figure, in other words one that included her arrears, she would 
have still made the decision to enter into her new agreement. Our investigator didnt 
recommend VWFS needed to do anything further to reduce this debt for Miss C beyond 
what it had offered to do.
Miss C didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to resolve. Miss C says that she would have settled her arrears with a 
payment plan before taking on a new agreement, and that she only entered into the 
agreement on the understanding that doing so would, in essence, clear the arrears. Miss 
C also says that her current agreement has a lower monthly rental (£251) and had the 
arrears been included she would not have been able to afford it, given her difficulty with 
her original agreement.
Miss C says she is happy with her current situation and doesnt feel she should be 
penalised by either terminating this agreement which she doesnt wish to do and/or having 
to pay the arrears. I understand she would like the full arrears balance to be waived. 
Miss C also says this matter has caused her stress and anxiety from the beginning.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint and what should happen to put things right for her. Miss C didnt agree with my 
proposal for putting things right and provided some further information for me to consider. 
This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding on VWFS and Miss C 
should she choose to accept it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered everything Miss C said in response to my provisional decision. To 
summarise, Miss C said that:
oIrrespective of any issues with her 2018 agreement, she was told by VWFS that 
the arrears built-up under this agreement would be cleared upon part-exchanging 
her car and entering into a new agreement; 
oShe had numerous conversations over the phone prior to taking out her new 
agreement where it was stated that everything would be cleared and she was 
reassured that it would be a fresh start;
oWhen she called VWFS about the debt letter shed received, the operator said that it 
wasnt showing that she owed anything on the account. The person was confused on 
the phone and asked if they could ring back. They then rang back hours later to say 
there had been a technical glitch. If it was the case, that she still needed to pay these 
arrears, then VWFS would have mentioned this to her during this phone call. Instead, 
they rang her back hours later and said the glitch had happed where these particular 
arrears did not cross over during the time of her new agreement and apologised;
oWe should look into the phone calls, particularly from when she was being advised 
on what to do next, to agreeing that she would part-exchange and start afresh, to the 
phone call when she received the letter from a debt company which VWFS didnt 
know about;
oShe was very unhappy and frustrated with my decision. 
Let me start by saying that I am sorry that I havent been able to provide the resolution that 
Miss C was hoping for. I appreciate that she is unhappy with my provisional conclusion and I 
understand how important the outcome of this complaint is to her. I want to reassure her that 
Id considered everything carefully when coming to my provisional view of her complaint. I 
have reviewed the matter again along with her comments on my provisional decision, but Im afraid my conclusion remains the same. I will set out my reasons again in this final decision 
and respond to Miss Cs points where appropriate. 
I said the following in my provisional decision:
It seems both parties are in agreement about what happened, and VWFS has accepted that 
it made a mistake in its calculation of the figure Miss C needed to pay to settle her account. 
Miss C says she found out about the outstanding amount from an arrears letter sent to her in 
June 2021. VWFS realised then it hadnt applied the arrears correctly to Miss Cs account 
and they werent included in the settlement figure it had quoted, although the arrears were 
due.
I can see from the contact notes provided that VWFS and Miss C were in frequent contact 
throughout 2020 and 2021. VWFS sent letters to Miss C from October 2020 to June 2021 
letting her know her account balance and arrears amounts. Several quotes for settlement 
and voluntary termination amounts are recorded on the contact notes. Miss C says she was 
told that the figure of £12,706 would settle her account in full and Ive seen a copy of a letter 
from VWFS to Miss C dated 19 May 2021 which states:
Agreement balance: £13,741.99
Interest Saving: £1,035.89
Arrears: £0.00
Total amount payable £12,706.10
Miss C part-exchanged her car at a Volkswagen dealership. The sales invoice shows the 
hire purchase settlement figure as £12,706.10. Miss C began her new hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS in May 2021, paying £251 a month for four years plus an optional 
final balloon payment (on purchase).
It seems to me that none of the early settlement and termination figures recorded on the 
contact notes included sums in arrears, so the figures in May 2021 which Miss C acted on 
dont seem anomalous in this context. Miss C says I went into the agreement with the 
knowledge that the arrears would be cleared having taking out this new agreement. This was 
mentioned to me numerous times over the phone as I was worried about this. It only then 
turns out that there was a technical glitch on VW side where the arrears have not gone over 
to this new agreement. This is no fault of mine and I was not aware of this until a debt letter 
suddenly appeared in the post.
I havent seen anything in the information I have which contradicts Miss Cs recollections and 
I think its more likely than not that Miss C understood that her existing agreement had been 
settled in full on entering into her current agreement.
Ive noted what Miss C said in response to my provisional decision about reviewing 
telephone records. I think any call records would likely confirm what Miss C has said so I 
dont think reviewing these would impact my decision. I believe Miss C when she says that 
she was told that she would have nothing further to pay above the settlement figure she was 
given because, it seems, that was what the system had calculated. 
I can also accept that it took VWFS some time to look into the arrears letter Miss C 
subsequently received and, again, I believe her account of things so I see no need to review 
call records. The representative didnt know why Miss C had received an arrears letter when 
her account had been settled and it took some time for VWFS to realise it had made a 
mistake. This doesnt mean that she didnt owe this money but that VWFS had made a 
mistake when it calculated the settlement figure. Id said in my provisional decision: 
Miss C has told us that she would not have entered into her current agreement if the 
settlement figure for her existing agreement had been higher as she wouldnt have been 
able to afford the rentals. She says she would have voluntarily terminated the existing 
agreement and repaid her arrears. This doesnt seem to me to be an implausible point of 
view, given Miss Cs difficulties making her payments under her existing agreement. 
Furthermore, I am not entirely convinced that VWFS would have agreed further credit for 
Miss C, had everything gone as it should have and Miss Cs arrears been considered when 
she was arranging her car finance.
As our investigator has explained, the role of our service is to consider whether something 
has gone wrong and if we think it has, think about what needs to happen to put a consumer 
back in the position they would have been had things gone to plan. In this case, Miss C may 
or may not have entered into this new finance agreement. She may have taken on a different 
agreement or none at all. Putting Miss C back into the position she would have been, had 
she not entered into this new agreement, means she wouldnt have made any payments 
towards it and would still need to settle her outstanding arrears balance.
Events have moved on since the error occurred. Miss Cs new hire purchase agreement has 
been running for over a year and she will have paid more than £3,000 towards this 
(assuming her payments are up to date). Miss C says that she would have repaid her 
arrears by now. However, even if Miss C were to return this car as part of resolving her 
complaint, VWFS would potentially end up retaining her payments to cover her hire of it over 
the last year or so leaving the arrears still outstanding. Miss C has said that she is happy 
with her current agreement and so I havent considered any changes to this when thinking 
about what needs to happen to put things right. Irrespective of what happens with the current 
agreement, Miss C would still need to clear her arrears.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for her but Im afraid I cant consider it to be 
fair that Miss C essentially gains almost £2,500 because of an error. Despite not knowingly 
benefitting from this amount initially, it is not hers to keep as it wasnt money owing to her in 
the first place. VWFS hadnt agreed to writing off these rental payments, it made a mistake 
by not including them in a settlement figure.
I have considered that Miss C has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of 
VWFSs error. As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up to £750 might be fair 
where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and worry and significant 
inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over weeks or months. I currently 
think that an award in this range would be appropriate here. VWFS has offered to cap 
Miss Cs arrears of £2,464 at £2,000 which I think is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused to her. And so I am not going to direct that it does 
anything further. That said, I would remind VWFS of its obligations to treat Miss C fairly and 
with due consideration and forbearance, which would likely include coming to an agreed 
repayment plan for the capped arrears amount.
Having reviewed the matter again, I remain of the view that what VWFS has offered to do to 
put things right for Miss C is fair. This doesnt rule out any further forbearance it may offer. 
Putting things right
In summary, VWFS needs to:
Cap Miss Cs outstanding debt from her agreement taken out in 2018 at £2,000; 
andTreat Miss C fairly and with due consideration and forbearance regarding the 
remaining balance.  
My final decision
As Ive set out above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited and it needs to to put things right as outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman