DRN-4511519
The complaint
Miss T is complaining about 247 Money Group Limited (247). She says they shouldnt have 
lent to her as the repayments were unaffordable.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss T took out a hire purchase agreement with 247 to finance the 
purchase of a car. She paid no deposit and borrowed £7,870  the cash price of the vehicle. 
The agreement required Miss T to make 48 monthly repayments of £249.84. She missed a 
couple of repayments due to bounced direct debits. Then, in March 2023, she settled the 
agreement early, selling the car at the time.
Miss T complained to 247 in October 2022, saying they should never have given her the 
unaffordable car finance. She said at the time she had a very bad credit history with multiple 
defaults and debt management plans and was in arrears on a loan of over £10,000 with 
another lender. 
In response, 247 said theyd checked Miss Ts credit file, which told them how much she was 
paying towards credit commitments each month and which they also used to decide her 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR). They said theyd confirmed Miss Ts income by looking at a 
payslip. This showed Miss Ts average monthly income for the year to date was just over 
£1,500 though shed told them her income was £2,170. 247 also said they obtained a bank 
statement from Miss T. The bank statement showed one returned direct debit and no use of 
the overdraft facility, so 247 were satisfied with this. They calculated her monthly maximum 
contractual payment as £498 so they felt the actual monthly contractual payment of £250 
was affordable for her. 247 also said theyd had a phone conversation with Miss T in which 
she explained her income was higher than theyd calculated because shed returned to work 
following maternity leave. And she confirmed there werent any foreseeable negative 
changes in her financial circumstances. 247 said based on the information theyd gathered 
from their checks there were no concerns over the affordability of the loan - so they didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Miss T brought her complaint to our service, adding that at the time of the lending she had 
multiple outstanding loans, defaults, arrears and a gambling habit. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He said 
he wasnt satisfied 247 had completed proportionate checks but he felt the agreement was 
likely affordable for Miss T and 247 could have fairly decided to lend to her.
Miss T appealed our investigators view. She said she was making token payments to her 
partner for rent, food and other essentials but couldnt afford to give him more. She noted 
several items from her bank statement which she felt should have been an indicator that she 
was struggling financially. And she said its clear from her bank statements that she had a 
serious gambling problem. She asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaint 
came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2023 saying I was inclined to 
uphold the complaint. In that I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did 247 carry out proportionate checks?
247 said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Ts credit file;
checked her income to her payslip; 
reviewed one months bank statements; and
spoke with Miss T on the phone to confirm affordability.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including 
the size and length of the loan, and what 247 found. 
247 havent provided their copy of Miss Ts credit file but they told us it showed Miss T 
had one active credit card with a balance of £217, five active current accounts, and one 
active loan. The balance on the loan was nearly £10,000, with monthly repayments of 
£385. 247 noted this loan was one payment in arrears. Because 247 havent provided 
their copy of Miss Ts credit file, Ive looked at Miss Ts copy to see what else 247 would 
likely have been aware of. 
Miss Ts credit report shows she had missed payments on her credit card a couple of 
times in the previous year. And it shows Miss T had ten defaults recorded between July 
2017 and July 2020. Three of these were in the twelve months prior to 247s decision to 
lend to Miss T. The credit report also notes that Miss T had had a debt management 
plan for a while. All of these are indicators that Miss T may have been struggling 
financially before 247 decided to lend to her and should have led 247 to do more 
checks. 
The bank statement 247 looked at showed a returned direct debit. This bank statement 
also wasnt for a full month, and it showed a significant amount of income from a 
gambling site as well as numerous significant transfers to another account in Miss Ts 
name. Im inclined to say the bank statement 247 saw was a further indicator that Miss T 
might have financial difficulties and that 247 should do additional checks.
Ive listened to the two phone calls 247 had with Miss T. These didnt add anything 
significant and were mostly confirmation calls. There was no discussion of Miss Ts 
defaults, credit commitments, or expenditure. 
On balance, Im not satisfied these checks were proportionate. There were numerous 
indicators from Miss Ts credit file that she may have been struggling with her finances, 
despite a relatively high income. 247 should have done more to understand her 
expenditure.If 247 had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved 247 finding out more about Miss Ts income 
and expenditure to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for two of Miss Ts bank accounts for the months leading up to 
her application to 247. In the absence of any other information, bank statements provide 
a good indication of Miss Ts income and expenditure at the time the lending decision 
was made.
Im not saying a business normally has to obtain bank statements during their 
affordability checks, but I think in Miss Ts case it would have been very difficult to gain 
an understanding of her expenditure without looking at the statements. So Im inclined to 
say that 247 would have needed to look at her bank statements in more detail to carry 
out a proportionate affordability assessment. 
If 247 had looked at more of Miss Ts statements, theyd have seen significant levels of 
spending on gambling. Whilst some of these transactions are clearer than others, it 
appears that in January 2021, the month prior to the lending decision, Miss T spent 
around £3,000 on gambling. This was significantly more than her regular income. 
Miss Ts other statements dont show the same levels of gambling, but they do show 
large numbers of significant transfers to other accounts in Miss Ts name for which we 
havent received statements. Although I havent seen statements for all of Miss Ts bank 
accounts, Im inclined to say Ive seen enough. It seems clear the gambling was a 
significant contributor to the adverse state of Miss Ts credit file and on that basis Im 
inclined to say that if 247 had carried out proportionate checks theyd have had to 
decide it would be irresponsible to lend to Miss T.
While Miss T accepted my decision, 247 disagreed. They said they didnt think Id seen 
enough evidence to determine the lending was irresponsible and noted that Miss Ts other 
bank accounts may have had healthy balances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate 247s comments, its clear to me that Miss T was gambling compulsively, 
as shes told us. Since I issued my provisional decision shes sent us statements for another 
account for January 2021  and this shows her spending on gambling was much higher than 
Id previously estimated. Those statements alone show her spending around £4,000 in 
January 2021 on gambling sites. I acknowledge Miss T had some winnings from gambling, 
but I dont think it would have been responsible for 247 to factor this in when making the 
lending decision.
In summary, 247s comments havent changed my mind, and Miss Ts additional information 
has strengthened my view that Miss T was unable to control her spending on gambling and 
therefore 247 couldnt have reasonably decided to lend to her. 
Putting things right
Neither party commented on my proposed redress so the following is unchanged from my 
provisional decision: 
As I dont think 247 should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Miss T had use of the car before she sold it, and then she benefitted from the proceeds of the sale. To settle Miss Ts complaint, 
247 should do the following:
Refund all the payments Miss T has made in excess of £7,870, representing the 
original cash price of the car. 247 should add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If 247 consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Miss T a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Miss T can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint. 247 Money Group Limited need 
to take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman