DRN-3927509
The complaint
Miss R complains Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market (Quid Market) gave her a loan 
which she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss R was advanced one loan on 18 July 2018 for £400 and she was due to make six 
monthly repayments of £125.38. The loan was repaid on 18 January 2019. 
Following Miss Rs complaint, Quid Market wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold it because it had carried out proportionate checks before the loan was granted. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill, Quid Market offered to remove the loan from her credit 
file. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss R referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt think Miss Rs complaint 
should be upheld. In his view, Quid Market carried out proportionate checks which showed 
Miss R would be able to afford the loan. 
Miss R didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Ive summarised her response below.
She was in serious financial difficulties from 2008 until 2021. 
During this time, she took a number of different credit accounts including payday 
loans, other loans and credit cards. 
Her credit rating was poor, and Miss R would often be refused credit. 
Miss R has raised other complaints about irresponsible lending and these have been 
successful so she doesnt see why this case should not be upheld in her favour as 
well. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Miss R could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
Miss R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss R. As there was only one loan the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Miss Rs complaint. 
Quid Market was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss R was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Rs complaint.
For this loan, Miss R told Quid Market she was taking the loan to pay for a holiday. As part of 
her application, she declared a monthly income of £1,536. She also declared monthly 
outgoings of £975 to cover a number of different items including, rent, food, other credit 
commitments and utilities. 
Quid Market believed, based on the information Miss R provided she had around £561 a 
month disposable income. However, it adjusted this figure down following the credit check 
(which I explain in more detail below) that it carried out. It discovered total existing 
commitments of around £251 and so reduced Miss Rs disposable monthly income figure to 
£361. 
Based solely on the information Miss R declared to Quid Market, it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to believe Miss R would be in a position to afford her monthly repayment of 
around £126. 
Quid Market has also said it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the results. It is worth saying that there is no requirement within 
the regulations at the time to have carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific 
standard. But what Quid Market couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to 
any concerning information that it may have seen. So, although Miss R has provided a copy of her full credit report, Im not, in this case going 
to be considering it, because Quid Market did a credit search and has provided the results 
which it saw at the time of the application.  In my view, Quid Market was also entitled to rely 
on the results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, Quid Market knew that Miss R had defaulted on an 
account three months before this loan was advanced.  And while there were other, older 
defaults on the credit file some of these were five or six years old, and so wouldnt have 
been reflective of Miss Rs ability to repay a loan when she applied for it. But the one recent 
default, would on its own, not be sufficient, in my view for Quid Market to have declined her 
application. 
The information provided by Quid Market there wasnt anything which suggested Miss R was 
having financial difficulties when the loan was advanced. For example, there wasnt a history 
of Miss R regularly opening new credit facilities  which could be a sign of dependence on 
pay day loans. The credit check results showed she had only opened two new credit 
accounts within the six months before the loan being advanced. 
Thinking about the credit checks results as well as the income and expenditure information, 
there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Quid Market to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Miss R 
had provided. So, while Miss R has provided her bank statements, in this case, it wouldve 
been disproportionate for Quid Market to have considered them. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Quid Market to 
have relied on the information Miss R provided about her income and expenditure figures to 
show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that Miss R the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Ive also considered what Miss R says about the success she has had with other 
irresponsible lending complaints. But each case is considered on its own individual merits 
considering  but not limited to the number of loans lent by the lender, the value of those 
loans, the term and what the lender at the time knew about Miss R. Therefore, just because 
other lenders have upheld complaints for Miss R that doesnt automatically mean 
Quid Market made an error by granting this loan. 
Finally, it isnt clear whether the offer Quid Market made in its final response letter is still 
available to Miss R. So, Ill leave this up to Miss R to speak to Quid Market about this offer.
Overall, and having thought about everything, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman