DRN-2679865
The complaint
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) granted him a 
loan that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In October 2015, Mr G took out a loan for £2,000 with Everyday Lending. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £183.10 a month.
Mr G later complained that Everyday Lending lent to him irresponsibly because the loan was 
unaffordable for him. Everyday Lending said it had completed affordability checks which it 
believed were reasonable and proportionate. These showed the loan was sustainable as Mr 
G had disposable income.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He thought the checks 
Everyday Lending had completed were proportionate and these suggested the loan was 
affordable for Mr G.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr G could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mr G before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about his income and his housing costs. It verified Mr Gs income by checking a 
payslip. It also checked his credit file and one months bank statement. 
Mr Gs payslip showed he had a net monthly income of £1,869. Mr G indicated he was living 
with his parents and was paying £400 a month for his lodging. Everyday Lending took this 
into account when calculating his expenditure.  It used data from the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) for Mr Gs other living expenses. These were estimated to be around £954 
a month. Everyday Lending used information from Mr Gs credit file to work out his existing 
credit repayments (£154 a month). After taking away the monthly repayment for the loan 
Everyday Lending calculated that Mr G would be left with a disposable income of around 
£177.
Mr Gs credit file indicated he had an overdraft of £1,879 and a mail order debt of £844. It 
showed Mr G had taken out a few pay day loans in the past six months, but these had 
mostly been paid off. The one remaining loan had an outstanding balance of £793. I can see 
the bank statement Mr G gave to Everyday Lending showed a repayment for another pay 
day loan. But Everyday Lending has noted that Mr Gs reason for taking out the loan was to 
consolidate some of his existing debt and sort out his credit file. I dont think there was 
anything on Mr Gs credit file that should have given Everyday Lending cause for concern or 
prompted it to carry out further checks. There were no recent defaults or county court 
judgments, for example. 
Mr G has also told us he struggled with a gambling addiction when he took out the loan. I 
can see some gambling transactions on the bank statements hes sent us. But the bank 
statement he shared with Everyday Lending when he applied for the loan doesnt show any 
gambling transactions. Mr G has explained that some of the transactions on the bank 
statement he gave to Everyday Lending were payments to his mother, who helped him 
manage his finances because of his gambling issue. But I dont this information alone is 
enough to say that Everyday Lending should reasonably have been aware that Mr G had a 
gambling problem.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G. But having considered everything, I think 
Everyday Lendings checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And 
these suggested the loan was affordable. So, I dont think Everyday Lending acted 
irresponsibly when it granted Mr G the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman