The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J were sold the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 1989. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in May 2020 in which I explained why I was not thinking of 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs J made some further comments, 
some of which I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr and Mrs J have provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. I am not going 
to address every point they have made, although I can assure Mr and Mrs J that I have 
given full consideration to everything that they have said.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has copies of any documentation from the sale, which is not surprising 
given the time that has elapsed. All it has is an electronic record containing some basic 
details of the mortgage and PPI, such as the start and end dates and some cost information. 
The lack of any contemporaneous evidence does make the complaint more difficult to 
decide. In reaching my decision I have therefore considered the information that we do have, 
as well as what I consider was most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs J said in their PPI questionnaire that they couldnt remember how the PPI was 
sold to them. Yet they also said they had a recollection of the PPI being forced on them and 
not being told it was optional. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs J say that theyd said they couldnt 
remember the sale because they didnt consider being told they had to have PPI as part of 
the mortgage to constitute a sale in the usual sense of the word. They say they dont 
remember a sales pitch, it was just presented as part of the mortgage paperwork.
DRN-1911716Mr and Mrs J say they have never said that the PPI was forced on them, which implies a 
sign here or else attitude. But Id like to refer Mr and Mrs J back to their PPI questionnaire 
that they provided to this service, in which they wrote The PPI was forced on us when we 
took out the mortgage .
In their complaint form they have said that it was when they were moving house in 1994 that 
they discovered they had been paying for PPI in the mortgage  which suggests that the 
PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. Again, Mr and Mrs J say that they never 
said this.
I know Mr and Mrs J have been frustrated by what they consider to be the adjudicators, and 
now my, apparent misunderstanding of what they are saying.
I have always understood that Mr and Mrs Js complaint is that they knew they had PPI in 
1989 and that it was in 1994 that they became aware that they didnt have to have it. But I 
was pointing out that what they said in their complaint form doesnt reflect that  because 
they do say in their complaint form, in relation to 1994: At this time we discovered we had 
been paying for PPI in the mortgage Regardless of their intention, Im sure Mr and Mrs J 
can appreciate that this statement reads as if they were previously unaware that they had a 
policy or that they had been paying monthly premiums as part of their regular mortgage 
repayments. So I was drawing attention to apparent contradictions in Mr and Mrs Js early 
complaint submissions and how that might suggest that their recollection of events had 
faded.
Lloyds doesnt know how the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs J, so it has assumed that it was 
an advised branch sale. We know that the PPI was sold at the same time as the mortgage 
and I therefore consider its most likely that the policy was sold to them in a branch, during 
their mortgage interview. And Mr and Mrs J have more recently provided a recollection of 
being in branch and being told where to sign for the mortgage and PPI etc.
From what we know of Lloydss sales practices at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional. I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude that something different 
happened in this case. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs J have provided their honest 
recollection of events. But as Ive said, the sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if their memory has faded.
Mr and Mrs J say that they have no memory loss in relation to when they moved house in 
1994 and realising that the policy was in fact optional. They say that cancelling it at this time 
is proof that it wasnt presented as optional in 1989. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr 
and Mrs J have said, including their additional comments in response to my provisional 
decision. But overall, I am not persuaded that, because they cancelled the policy in 1994, 
that is evidence that it wasnt presented as optional five years earlier. 
Mr and Mrs J have said that they were sold a life insurance policy by Lloyds in 2009 which 
included premium protection. They have a later letter from the insurer which says that the 
couple chose to take out premium protection. They say they did no such thing and this points 
to Lloyds setting up apparently optional policies (or sub-elements within policies) without 
actually giving them a choice about it. The sale of the life insurance policy does not form part 
of this complaint and there has been no investigation into whether or not the premium 
protection element of that policy was mis-sold in 2009. I appreciate what Mr and Mrs J are 
saying but overall, I am not persuaded that it is possible to draw any conclusions about the 
PPI sale in 1989 from an unrelated sale made in 2009,I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs J have provided their honest recollection of events. But, 
based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that they were led to believe that 
the PPI was something that they had to have with the mortgage.
On balance, based on the available evidence, I think that Mr and Mrs J probably decided to 
buy the policy in 1989, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
I dont know if Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs J to buy the policy. If it was an advised sale (as 
opposed to an information only sale) it holds Lloyds to a higher standard because, in 
recommending the policy to Mr and Mrs J, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And 
from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr J says his employer would have given his 28 weeks full pay if he was off sick, reducing 
after that, up to a maximum period of 12 months. Mrs J would have received six months full 
pay, followed by six months half pay, if she was off sick. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than they would have received full pay for. 
The couple had some savings, but having the policy would have meant that they could retain 
these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall I 
consider that Mr and Mrs J had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it. So it 
seems reasonable for Lloyds to have recommended they buy it.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs J with enough information for them to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. 
I think that Mr and Mrs J would have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage payments if they were unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment -  because I have found that they, more likely than not, decided to buy the 
policy and I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Although I think that Mr and Mrs J would have had a broad understanding of the main 
features of the PPI (including that it was optional), its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as 
much information as it should have about the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs J werent affected by any of those things. As I consider they had an 
interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have 
caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds 
may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Lloyds need to do to put things right. It follows 
that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14July2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman