DRN-2242175
The complaint
Mr P complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Novaloans 
Limited, trading at the time as Cash4unow. Mr P says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Cash4unow throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr P took out 2 loans from Cash4unow between January 2019 and April 
2019. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us: 
 
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate 
RepaidType of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 18/01/2019 24/04/2019 Instalment x4 £150 £54.21
2 26/04/2019 14/08/2019 Instalment x4 £400 £159.44
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ps complaint.
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr P could 
repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4unow should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Cash4unow told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr P and took account of what he himself said his income and expenditure was. I 
think the checks which it most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. Overall, 
they would have revealed some, but certainly not all, of Mr Ps financial profile. However, 
bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think 
these checks would have been proportionate for the 2 loans in question. 
Both loans were for relatively moderate amounts. The first was for £150 and paid back in 
accordance with the plan. The second loan did increase in value to £400, but it was still 
moderate and like the first, it was spread out over 4 instalments. I think both would have 
looked sustainable based on the circumstances known at the time.
Ive also considered carefully the bullet points set out above and I dont think any of them 
apply to Mr Ps case. We know, for example, that Mr P declared his income in each case to 
be £2,800 and given what hed also said about his outgoings, I think this supported the view 
that on the whole both the loans were affordable for him. Finally, we hadnt yet reached a 
stage where the lending was continuing over a very long period.
So, Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P. I completely accept its possible he may already have 
been experiencing financial problems elsewhere, but in short, I think the checks carried out 
in this case were proportionate and Cash4unow was entitled to rely on what it found, 
together with what it had been told by Mr P himself. Based on the information available, I 
think this showed that Mr P would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing 
to on each occasion and the loans were sustainable. 
Im afraid there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint in respect of either loan. I dont 
direct Novaloans Limited to pay Mr P any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman