DRN-3379895
The complaint
Mr V complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) refused to remove adverse information from 
his credit file despite being told it would be.
What happened
Mr V says he became unwell whilst in France in early 2019 and was unable to make 
required credit card payments. He says he spoke to BoS on a number of occasions from 
April 2019 on and was told by a number of its staff that the late payment markers it had 
recorded on his credit file as a result of the missed payments would be removed. Mr V says 
the markers were not removed and believes he was racially profiled as well as being 
discriminated against. He says he can no longer obtain a basic credit card account as a 
result of the adverse information on his credit file and says he lost a job opportunity. Mr V 
would like the late payment markers removed.
BoS says it accepts it gave Mr V poor service and has apologised for the misleading 
information he was given. It has paid Mr V £125 compensation for the incorrect information 
and £77 for his call costs. But it says it correctly reported Mr Vs account position to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and will not remove that information. BoS also says it 
dealt appropriately with Mr V when he complained to it and says Mr V could register a Notice 
of Correction on his credit file about the circumstances that led to the missed payments.
Mr V brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the available telephone call recordings from BoS and didnt think Mr V was told on 
those calls that the late payment markers would be removed. The investigator explained to 
Mr V that it would be for a court to decide if there was discrimination and didnt think Mr V 
had provided evidence of the hospitalisation in France. The investigator didnt think it our 
role to comment on similar cases or that we could request information about the number of 
similar cases.
Mr V doesnt accept that view and in summary questions how many cases BoS and the 
complaint handler have dealt with of a similar nature and says his case has not been 
appropriately investigated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and I cant fairly order it to remove the late payment markers from Mr 
Vs credit file. I appreciate Mr V will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly 
he feels about this complaint. I have also listened to his telephone call to the investigator to 
understand exactly what his complaint points are.
I make clear to Mr V at the outset of my decision that our role is not to investigate a 
complaint on behalf of one party or the other but to consider the evidence of both parties 
before making a fair and reasonable decision. We also look at the evidence relevant to the 
complaint and so would not as Mr V suggests we do, request information from BoS about 
similar complaints or similar issues or question for example how a complaint handler has 
dealt with similar matters or how many such cases that handler had dealt with.
There is no issue here that Mr V was told that BoS would remove the late payment markers 
from his account. I have not seen direct evidence of that promise or been provided with the 
telephone calls in which that promise was made. But I dont need to see or hear that 
evidence as I can clearly see that BoS in its complaint response of 28 October 2020 accepts 
that it gave Mr V incorrect information and went on to apologise for it.
I have no doubt Mr V was caused inconvenience and distress as a result of finding out the 
information he was given was incorrect. And I have no doubt Mr V spent some time in trying 
to find out why the late markers had not been removed and why BoS had given him incorrect 
information. Im satisfied that BoS has fairly apologised for the incorrect information and has 
fairly paid for Mr Vs call costs. Im also satisfied that its compensation payment is fair and 
reasonable.
The key part of this complaint is about the late payment markers. I am sure Mr V appreciates 
that banks and building societies are obliged as part of their regulatory duties to provide 
accurate information to the CRAs about customers accounts. Im satisfied that is what took 
place here that BoS told the CRAs about Mr Vs missed payments which was accurate 
information. So, I dont think BoS acted unfairly or made a mistake by reporting the late 
payments on Mr Vs credit file. And I dont think it follows that BoS was obliged to remove 
that information despite telling Mr V by mistake that it would. I can see that BoS fairly told Mr 
V that he could update his credit file with a Notice of Correction containing information about 
the reasons for the missed payments.
I appreciate Mr V says that he was racially profiled and discriminated against. I make clear to 
Mr V that it would be for a court to decide if there was a breach of the Equality Act 2010. But 
I also make clear that I have not seen any evidence of such matters and also make clear 
that complaint handling is not something I can fairly comment on.
Overall, I accept Mr V was given incorrect information but that does not mean the 
information on his credit file should be removed. I also find this now brings an end to what 
we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman