DRN-3771515
The complaint
Miss M complains U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) mis-sold her insurance 
cover and failed to add legal expenses insurance (LEI) onto her Landlord Insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of the case are well known to all sides but as a summary, in March 2019, Miss M 
called Direct Line and spoke with a call handler to arrange insurance cover. Direct Line sells 
legal expenses coverage as an option on its landlord policies. At the time Miss M had a 
separate policy for rent guarantee. Miss M says the 2019 call handler made assumptions 
that her rent guarantee policy covered all her legal expenses needs and based on this 
advice, she didnt select to have legal expenses coverage added onto her landlord policy. In 
the subsequent renewals Miss M spoke with Direct Line but as was the case in March 2019, 
she didnt select to have legal expenses as an option.
Miss M went on to have a dispute with a neighbour who she says caused physical damage 
to her property. In March 2022 Miss M asked Direct Line if her policy covered this issue and 
she was told that it would not be covered. Miss M was advised by her husband that had she 
taken legal expenses coverage since 2019, then the issues with the neighbour would have 
been covered by the policy.
Miss M strongly argues that she acted in good faith and believed the comments made by the 
call handler in 2019. At the time she says she asked several times about the legal expenses 
cover only to receive the same answer. 
Direct Line investigated the complaint but didnt agree with her point of view, so Miss M 
referred the complaint to our Service for an independent review.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied the policy was 
sold on a non-advised basis. So, deciding on the suitability of the product was up to Miss M.
Miss M disagrees she says she was advised in 2019. She says the salesman in this call 
should have told her he couldnt give advice rather than saying a legal defence policy was 
unlikely to be of use to her. She says the critical point is she wanted to buy legal defence 
insurance and the salesman chose to depart from Direct Lines policy of not giving advice 
and advise her that she did not need it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ms frustration here. But I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Ive listened to the 2019 call. I think overall it is clear that the call handler can provide 
information but not advice. Miss M repeatedly tries to get him to provide advice and he 
declines to do so. When it comes to the discussion about LEI he does assume that Miss M 
wont want this cover, but he does so based on what she has already said, and he makes 
that clear. This doesnt feel like advice to me particularly as Miss M knows that he hasnt 
seen the additional policy so couldnt give any informed advice in any event. He uses 
phrases like I cant really comment. Miss M reads out what her additional policy covers and 
says: so Ive already got it by the looks of it and he says: no problem. I therefore dont 
think it would be reasonable to conclude he advised her that she didnt need LEI.
I also think that the documentation made it clear that the policy had not been recommended 
to Miss M and it was for her to assess the suitability (see for example page 5 of the policy 
which says we have not given You a personal recommendation as to whether this Policy is 
suitable for Your needs. The documentation also makes clear there was no LEI cover. It 
says there was no LEI cover on page 5 of the statement of facts and on page 3 of the New 
Business Schedule.
As the policy was sold on a non-advised basis it was Miss Ms responsibility to see if she 
had all the cover she needed. The documentation did make clear what would be covered by 
LEI so Miss M could have compared her additional policy terms and seen what differences in 
coverage existed.
Subsequently Miss M had the opportunity to add LEI when she renewed the policy. She 
didnt take this option and I cant conclude that this is Direct Lines error either. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman