DRN-3585549
The complaint
Mr T says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, was slow to respond and 
refused to carry out his clear instructions after there were problems with goods he bought on 
his Tesco credit card. 
What happened 
Mr T placed an order with an overseas supplier on 6 November 2021, but it was dispatched 
in three separate packages (and two it seems were returned to sender). But each package 
had an invoice showing the total order value. This meant Mr T was subject to additional 
customs charges. Whilst he tried to resolve this with the supplier and delivery company he 
instructed Tesco not to authorise any charges from the supplier - until he confirmed all goods 
had arrived successfully and the extra customs charges had been refunded. Mr T did resolve 
the problem but says it took him over 100 emails with all the parties involved. 
He is unhappy that Tesco applied £57.13 interest to his January 2022 statement whilst the 
dispute was ongoing, £22.36 in February and £7.60 in March. He says Tesco did not act 
promptly, instead it used delaying tactics and sent him links to upload the additional 
information it needed that did not work. He wants an apology, all charges refunded and 
compensation to cover the stress and cost involved.
When Mr T complained to Tesco it said the terms of the account are clear that if an 
accountholder is in dispute over a transaction they must still make payment to prevent 
interest charges. So it had made no error. But as a gesture of goodwill it agreed to refund 
the interest on this occasion and place a 1-month interest waiver on his account.
Our investigator said this was a fair resolution to Mr Ts complaint. He said Tesco had 
reminded Mr T that his account would need to be paid in full to avoid any interest or charges 
and its terms support this. He did not feel Tesco had been unreasonably slow to respond as 
it was over the New Year period. He accepted it would have been time consuming and 
stressful for Mr T to resolve all this, but he could not find Tesco had acted in error in the 
circumstances of this case. He also could not fairly conclude the problem with the uploading 
link Tesco provided was its fault. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he    
re-iterated the chronology of events highlighting things he was most unhappy with. For 
example Tesco asked for proof of purchase when the transaction was already on his system. 
He feels it should have acted immediately when he got in touch on 13 December 2021 and 
placed payment on hold. As it didnt the supplier had its money and so did not need to 
respond in a timely manner. The uploading link Tesco sent him did not work. And Tesco has 
only refunded the first interest charge. Plus, we havent commented on what the terms are 
for non-supply of goods, or what is the position when additional parts are needed to make 
the goods ordered work.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the comments Mr T has made to this service carefully but in keeping 
with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I will focus here on those I find to be 
material to the outcome of his complaint. 
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Our role is to decide whether or not the bank made an error, if so what the impact of the 
error was and what it needs to do to put things right. In this case I cant fairly find the bank 
acted in error. I understand how frustrating the situation was for Mr T but the terms of his 
account, that he agreed to, make clear that interest charges will accrue on balances not 
settled in full whilst transactions are in dispute. So whilst he argues Tesco did not follow his 
instructions, I cant find it made an error as it acted in accordance with the agreement it has 
with Mr T. 
It then started the chargeback process after his letter dated 13 December 2021. I find it 
reasonable, and in line with industry practice, that it asked for more information the following 
week. I think the value of the transaction alone on his December statement would not have 
allowed it to proceed effectively. With regards the problem with the link to use to upload 
documents, I dont doubt it did not work for Mr T but what I do not know is whether this was 
Tescos error  or a problem elsewhere maybe, for example, with Mr Ts device, software or 
broadband. Mr T said Tesco was slow to respond but I dont find any of the periods of 
elapsed time to have been so excessive it needs take any action to compensate Mr T. I note 
the dispute was ongoing over a seasonal period.
Mr T also raised that we have not commented on what the terms are for non-supply of 
goods, or what is the position when additional parts are needed to make the goods ordered 
work. But in his email to Tesco on 12 January 2022 he wrote I have now received the last of 
the 3 packages and handed them to the garage who checked them to confirm we have all 
the parts as per order. So from the evidence he has submitted I dont see his query to be 
relevant to his complaint. 
Finally, Mr T said that Tesco had not refunded two of the three interest charges. If it has still 
not done so, it should prior to Mr Ts next billing cycle.   
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman