DRN-2294013
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Moneywise Investments Plc (Moneywise), an insurance broker, 
failed to take out a before the event (BTE) legal expenses policy for him despite him paying 
extra for this when he took out his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July this year. An extract from that 
decision follows: 
Mr B had taken out motor insurance through Moneywise at least between 2012 and 2017 
and he believed he had paid extra for BTE cover in 2016. Mr B was involved in a motor 
accident in June 2016 and wanted to make a claim against the third party using his BTE 
cover. He contacted Moneywise who said he didnt have BTE cover and referred him to a 
claims management company and to one of its panel solicitors to discuss the matter with 
them directly. 
Moneywise said that Mr B didnt return the documentation sent to him by the panel solicitors 
so they closed their file two months later. It said the panel solicitors heard nothing from Mr B 
until May 2019 when he emailed them asking them to take over his claim as he was 
unhappy with his solicitors. But the panel solicitors didnt take the case on.  
Mr B was unhappy to be told he had no BTE cover. He said he could remember discussing 
this with Moneywise at the time and that he had agreed to take it out and had been charged 
for it separately- so it shouldve been arranged. 
Moneywise said it didnt provide any insurance products at the time so it didnt understand 
why Mr B believed he had BTE cover. It said it had renewed Mr Bs policy with his motor 
insurer, A, in January 2016 and his total premium came to £365.11. It said Mr B had been 
sent renewal terms from A saying the premium would be £385.11 which included a £20 
administration charge and £20 for BTE cover. It said Mr B declined the BTE cover so 
Moneywise ultimately only charged him £20 for the administration charge in addition to the 
premium.
Mr B was unhappy and with Moneywises response and complained to us. He provided us 
with a copy of a policy certificate for BTE cover with a separate insurer, L, but L told us this 
was for a policy that lapsed in 2012. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said there was evidence that 
Mr B paid £385.11 in total. So BTE cover must have been included or Mr B was told would 
be included. 
Moneywise didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm considering 
upholding this complaint. 
Was BTE cover sold to or taken out for Mr B in 2016?
Moneywise said Mr B decided against taking out BTE in 2016 and provided us with a 
handwritten note which purports to support this. But it also sent us a screenshot of its 
accounts system which shows that it charged Mr B £385.11 that year which included a £20 
administration fee. 
Moneywise provided us with a document of the legal expenses cover it says it provided to its 
customers in 2016- free of charge. From what Ive seen this isnt an insurance policy but 
assistance to pursue a claim. This is essentially what Moneywise offered Mr B when he 
made his claim in 2016. This assistance means that a claims management company takes 
over and arranges for the claim to be referred to solicitors who then take out after the event 
legal expenses cover (ATE) along with a conditional fee or no win no fee agreement (CFA). 
ATE cover costs substantially more than BTE, one of the reasons being that it is taken out 
specifically in order to make a claim. Whereas BTE is taken out before the event takes 
place, and may not be used during the period of cover. Since April 2013, the main difference 
between having a BTE and an ATE (with a CFA) in personal injury claims is that if the 
claimant/consumer is successful in their claim against the third party, they themselves are 
responsible for the ATE premium and the solicitors success fee (if a CFA is also taken out 
post April 2013) though they receive a 10% uplift in their damages award to mitigate for this. 
Before April 2013 the ATE premium and success fee were recovered from the other side. 
So, before April 2013 having an ATE as opposed to a BTE didnt affect the claimant as much 
as it does now. 
Mr B says he remembers that Moneywise specifically told him it was selling him BTE in 2016 
and that this was provided by his motor insurance company. Its not possible to confirm if this 
conversation took place and what was discussed because Moneywise said its calls werent 
recorded at the time. 
From the little evidence available, it seems Mr B paid £20 extra which on balance I think was 
for BTE cover- especially since Moneywise said the legal assistance it provided in 2016 
wouldve been provided for free. This is further supported by the fact that the renewal letter it 
had sent to Mr B said the £385.11 premium included a £20 charge for BTE. The letter also 
suggests that it was in fact selling a legal expenses insurance policy at the time. Bearing in 
mind Mr B had BTE previously, its unlikely that he would not have wanted to take it out 
again. Even if, as Moneywise says, at the time it didnt sell BTE, unless it can provide 
evidence to show that it explained to Mr B that the legal assistance it was providing at the 
time wasnt an insurance policy, I think it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis that 
Mr B thought he was paying for BTE. 
It is unclear whether Moneywise failed to set this up or believed it hadnt charged it but it 
supports Mr Bs assertion that he paid for and took out BTE. On balance, I think Mr B paid 
for BTE and was under the impression that he had BTE- whether this was ultimately taken 
out or not. And I think this was down to Moneywises actions so I think its fair and 
reasonable that it compensates him for its failure to arrange this policy for him. 
How should Moneywise compensate Mr B?I now need to consider how Moneywises actions put Mr B in a worse position than the one 
he wouldve been in if he had BTE in 2016.
Mr B provided us with an extract from a BTE policy which he says is the one he had taken 
out. The underwriter for that policy said that policy expired in 2012. So I dont think I can rely 
on that document. 
My understanding from what Mr B told us is that after he decided not to proceed with 
Moneywises panel solicitors he instructed other solicitors who acted for him on a CFA with 
an ATE. I understand that Mr B was unhappy with those solicitors and has since instructed 
other firms to represent him. 
Mr B told us that if he had BTE all along he wouldve been able to choose his own solicitor 
(whereas Moneywise only offered him a panel firm) and that this wouldve meant his 
personal injury claim wouldnt have suffered. I understand that the claim is ongoing and has 
been issued in court. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but even with a BTE policy he still wouldnt have been able to 
choose his own solicitors- at least not until court proceedings need to be started or unless 
there was a conflict. In any event I see that Mr B did choose his own solicitors but was 
unhappy with their work- I understand this happened with at least two firms. Based on this, I 
think not having BTE cover hasnt caused him any prejudice in this regard. 
Mr B wrote to Moneywises panel solicitors in 2019 asking them to pay his court issue fee 
which he said was £7,700. But I dont think Moneywise is responsible for this as this is 
something any ATE or a BTE provider wouldve covered, if not recoverable from the other 
side. 
I understand Mr B had dis-instructed two of his former solicitors. I understand that they had 
taken out ATEs and CFAs and that their terms may stipulate that if he decides he no longer 
wants to pursue his legal claim he may be liable for their costs. If that is the case, I wouldnt 
expect Moneywise to pay for any additional costs Mr B may be liable for to his solicitors 
because I dont think these losses flow directly or at all from Moneywises actions. 
It follows that I think its fair and reasonable that Moneywise puts Mr B back in the position 
he wouldve been had BTE been taken out for him. With the evidence available to me, the 
only prejudice I can envisage that Mr B suffered is having to take out ATE and pay for its 
premium and perhaps the solicitors success fee. So if Mr B is able to provide evidence of 
those losses he may do so and ask Moneywise to reimburse him. And if he believes that 
Moneywise in failing to set up a BTE for him caused him any further losses he may raise 
those with Moneywise- but they have to flow directly from Moneywises actions.
My provisional decision
For the reasons above I am considering upholding this complaint. Moneywise Investments 
Plc should reimburse Mr B for any losses that flow directly from it failing to take out BTE 
cover for him in 2016 subject to him providing evidence in support of those losses. These 
may include his ATE premium and any solicitors success fee less the 10% uplift on the 
damages award. It must also pay 8% simple interest from the date those losses were 
incurred to the date it makes payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to apologise to both parties for the delay in issuing this decision. And 
secondly, I understand that Mr B has been unwell and I wanted to say how sorry I was to 
hear that and that I wish him a full recovery.
  
The parties responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Moneywise didnt agree with my decision 
and made a number of points including the following:
It didnt agree that Mr B had paid for BTE in 2016. It attached a letter which it says is the 
renewal from A in 2016 which it says states that the premium was £365.11 including 
insurance premium tax. 
It also attached a further copy of its offer letter to Mr B which it says states that the total 
premium was £385.11 which included a documentation charge of £20. It said the 
£385.11 is repeated on the remittance slip at the bottom of the letter.
It added that if Mr B wanted to take out BTE cover he wouldve had to pay a further £20 
and that this wouldve brought the premium to a total of £405.11. It said this option was 
open to Mr B and detailed in the letter but he declined it. It said this was recorded on its 
office copy and added that it provided evidence that Mr B paid a total £385.11.
It denies that it told Mr B at the time that it was selling him BTE which is what Mr B had 
told us.
It said that I failed to take into consideration Mr Bs actions which led to this complaint 
including the fact that he dis-instructed two former solicitors already. 
It said that Mr B decided not to take out BTE at the time for his own reasons but after 
being involved in a non-fault accident decided to create a fictitious account of events 
which contradicts the factual information provided by Moneywise.
It said its not within my remit to comment on the actions of solicitors and also that unless 
I am able to satisfy myself without any reasonable doubt that Mr B was sold BTE by 
Moneywise I am obliged to reverse my provisional decision. 
Mr B also responded to my provisional decision and provided a number of documents in 
relation to his legal claim. He repeated that Moneywise had told him that it was selling him 
BTE at the time. He said had that been the case he wouldve been able to instruct a solicitor 
of his choice to deal with his claims and not the solicitors he did end up instructing who are 
now pursuing him for unpaid fees. And he would also not have had to pay a 25% success 
fee or an ATE premium. He said Moneywise never sent him details of his BTE despite him 
asking it to do so and that when it did, he was referred to a claims management company 
who presented him with confusing conditions. He said he now has bailiffs chasing him for 
outstanding legal fees.
Mr B also said he has been ill and has been unable to work and will be claiming everything 
he lost financially from Moneywise.
My response to Moneywise
Before I issued my final decision I went back to Moneywise with the following comments:
Moneywise says that the letter it attached to its response to my provisional decision shows 
that Mr B didnt pay for BTE in 2016. The letter it provided alongside the renewal notice from 
A says: We have pleasure in reminding you that the above policy expires on 24/1/2016 and 
to maintain your cover we would ask that the renewal premium of £385.11 be paid on or before the expiry dateThe above premium includes a £40.00 Charge. This Includes £20 
Documentation Charge & £20 Legal Expenses premium 
This letter was sent to us previously as part of Moneywises file. However, in the copy that 
Moneywise has now sent us the words The above premium, a £40 charge and £20 Legal 
Expenses Premium are crossed out by hand. Both versions of the letter have a handwritten 
note which says client paid only £20 No legal cover taken. Moneywise had previously told 
us that the letter that was sent to Mr B had the words that said that the premium included a 
£20 LEI premium crossed out by hand. So Moneywise says that the premium was £365.11 
without BTE cover plus the £20 administrative charge. Moneywise now says that if Mr B 
wanted BTE he wouldve paid £405.11 in total.
Moneywise said the premium was £365.11 and didnt include LEI cover. This isnt clear from 
reading the letter so I asked Moneywise to point to me to the part of the letter which says the 
basic premium is £365.11. Also the handwritten note says client paid only £20 No legal 
cover taken. Yet Mr B still paid £385.11. So from reading the letter it appears that the price 
for the policy was the same whether there was BTE included or not. I appreciate Moneywise 
now says the premium including BTE wouldve been £405.11 but this isnt what the renewal 
letter says. And I havent seen this in any part of Moneywises file either. 
Even if the words relating to the BTE had been crossed out from the letter sent to Mr B at the 
time its not clear to me why Mr B would agree to pay £385.11 despite, according to 
Monewise, making it clear he didnt want to pay the extra £20 to take out BTE cover. I would 
have expected Mr B to have queried the fact that his premium had stayed the same despite 
not opting for the BTE cover. But there is nothing on Moneywises file to say that he did. And 
as I said above there isnt anything in the file to say that the total premium was in fact 
£405.11.
Even if the total premium with the BTE was £405.11 as Moneywise now says there isnt 
anything on its file to say this. And, from what Ive seen, Moneywise never wrote to Mr B to 
clarify this and instead relied on a letter that it crossed some words out from by hand and 
which it didnt keep a copy of. I appreciate Moneywise has now provided a copy of the letter 
with the relevant words crossed out but I assume this was done later on as I would have 
expected this to have been in its original file otherwise which isnt the case.
From what Ive seen Mr B paid £385.11 in total so I agree with Moneywise in that sense. But 
the letter doesnt say the total premium wouldve been £405.11 with BTE. I said if 
Moneywise was referring to another letter it should provide me with a copy along with an 
explanation why this wasnt in its original file. 
I can see from the document that Moneywise says is the renewal offer from A that the 
premium was £365.11. But I dont think this shows that this doesnt include BTE. Also, more 
importantly the letter that was sent to Mr B says that the £385.11 total premium included a 
£20 admin fee and a £20 BTE premium. The letter therefore suggests the premium was 
£345.11. Even if Moneywise had crossed those words out this doesnt explain why the letter 
would still say the total premium was £385.11 and why Monewywise didnt also cross this 
out and replaced it with £405.11 so that it was clear to Mr B that he wasnt paying for BTE. 
And I still dont think its clear why the letter would suggest that the premium is the same with 
BTE or without it. Whether it included BTE or not the impression it wouldve given Mr B 
wouldve been that he had BTE.
Moneywise says that it didnt tell Mr B at the time that it was selling him BTE. And it says that 
this is something that Mr B has made up since. Where each party has a different version of 
events from the other I look at all other evidence that has been presented to me in order to 
decide whose evidence I find carries more weight and who I think has a better recollection of events. Moneywise says I need to decide beyond reasonable doubt that BTE was sold to 
Mr B if thats what I am going to decide. But this isnt correct- I need to decide this on the 
balance of probabilities, which is a lower bar. 
So, to recap, I told Moneywise that the evidence I had was a letter that says that the total 
premium was £385.11 including BTE and documents that showed that Mr B paid £385.11. 
Moneywise says it crossed the words referring to BTE out in the letter it sent to Mr B. I have 
seen no evidence of this other than what it has told me. If it did so then its not clear to me 
why it didnt also cross out the part that said the total premium was £385.11 if that was also 
incorrect bearing in mind it now says the total premium with the BTE was £405.11 and not 
£385.11 after all. And I also said that if Mr B didnt want BTE I wouldve expected him to 
query the fact that he was being charged £385.11 regardless of the fact that he didnt want 
to pay the additional £20 for BTE bearing in mind the letter he was sent said the total was 
£385.11 with BTE. This evidence leads me to believe that at the very least Mr B was given 
the impression that he was paying for BTE even if that wasnt the case. 
I
n terms of my remit regarding solicitors, I told Moneywise that I have not made any findings 
about the actions of any of the solicitors. Nevertheless, I am able to refer to what happened 
as far as it involves the solicitors and I am also able to comment on the law and legal 
process and to take it into account. In this case I am explaining the effect that taking out an 
ATE post 2013 has on a consumer as opposed to having a BTE. This is within my remit.
Moneywise responded and reiterated some of its earlier points in support of the fact that it 
believes it never sold Mr B BTE cover and said that when it contacted Mr B in 2016 and 
discussed BTE cover with him he didnt require it. But is also accepted that its letter to Mr B 
when he took his policy out in 2016 could have been clearer. It offered, without admitting 
fault but as a goodwill gesture, to fund the cost of the first ATE policy Mr B took out subject 
to him providing evidence in support.
We put this offer to Mr B but he declined it and said he still wanted an ombudsmans 
decision.
For the reasons I gave to Moneywise above and in my provisional decision, on balance, I 
think Mr B was sold or was under the impression he was sold BTE cover in 2016. 
Mr Bs comments
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think Mr B wouldve been able to choose his own 
solicitor at the start, unless there was a conflict or proceedings were imminent. So, I dont 
think Moneywises actions prejudiced him in that sense. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels Moneywise is to blame for all his losses that relate to his legal 
claims including his legal fees. As I said in my provisional decision I dont think thats the 
case. This is because when he went to Moneywise about his legal claim it referred him to its 
panel solicitors without delay. It was his decision not to proceed through those solicitors 
which led him to instructing two other firms which he later dis-instructed. Again these were 
his own choices and not the result of something Moneywise did. As I said in my provisional 
decision all that I think Moneywise is responsible for is any success fee and ATE premium 
Mr B may have to pay if his claim is successful and upon it being settled less any 10% uplift 
he gets on his damages. This is because, as far as I can see, these are the only expenses 
he wouldve avoided if hed had BTE cover from the start. And I said I expect Moneywise to 
pay these fees/expenses upon him providing evidence that he has incurred them and that 
they were as a direct result of him not having BTE cover. I note Moneywise has offered to pay for one ATE premium. I appreciate the reason it may 
have specified that it would only pay for one is because Mr B may have taken out further 
policies when he changed solicitors. If that is the case I wouldnt expect Moneywise to pay 
for further ATE premiums as a result of Mr Bs decision to change solicitors. As I said in my 
provisional decision I only expect Moneywise to pay for losses that flow directly from its 
failure to sell Mr B BTE cover in 2016 which would have covered him for his accident. And 
as I said on the evidence available to me at this stage this would include an ATE premium 
and success fee less any uplift. 
In my provisional decision I said Moneywise should pay interest on those losses from the 
date they were incurred. By that I meant from the date Mr B had to pay them. I have clarified 
this in my decision below. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons above I am upholding this complaint. Moneywise Investments Plc should 
reimburse Mr B for any losses that flow directly from it failing to take out BTE cover for him in 
2016 subject to him providing evidence in support of those losses. These may include his 
ATE premium and any solicitors success fee less the 10% uplift on the damages award. It 
must also pay 8% simple interest on the amount it pays out from the date those losses were 
incurred (i.e. when Mr B had to pay them) to the date it makes payment. 
If Moneywise Investments Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman