DRN-3207658
The complaint
Mr D1s complaint concerns his trading account with Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK). 
Mr D2, whos authorised to trade on the account and has represented Mr D1 in bringing the 
complaint, says that failures of IBUKs system prevented him from placing orders and 
caused a loss.
What happened
On 21 April 2020, between 06:47 and 08:59 (USA Eastern time), Mr D2 established a short 
position on Mr D1s account of ten CL JUN 20 0.5 P oil options. Shortly after, looking to 
close the position, he attempted to buy ten options. When he had difficulties completing the 
orders, he contacted IBUK via its chat service and then later by telephone. 
The staff member Mr D2 spoke with on the telephone also couldnt execute the orders and 
advised him to make a complaint. Eventually, several hours later, Mr D2 did successfully 
place the orders, but at prices ranging from $1.74 and $1.99. His complaint centres on the 
fact that when he was trying place the orders earlier the price had been much lower. 
IBUK acknowledged that it had experienced system problems during the period in question. 
It looked at the orders Mr D2 had attempted and confirmed that his initial orders placed just 
after 09:00, at $0.90 and $1.00, failed because theyd been below the market price. It said 
the first order hed placed that wouldve been successful had it not been for the system 
problems was one placed at 09:34 for $1.35. 
While maintaining that its customer agreement provided that it had no liability for losses in 
such circumstances of system failure, IBUK nevertheless offered as a gesture of goodwill to 
adjust Mr D1s account with a payment of $5,390, to reflect the difference between the $1.35 
that wouldve been achieved without the system problems, and the higher prices Mr D2 
actually achieved. 
Mr D2 didnt accept this. He felt that if the system problems hadnt occurred, he wouldve 
been able to successfully place the buy orders at the much lower prices originally attempted 
at just after 09:00, or certainly at the $1:25 price attempted during the telephone call. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt think that IBUK needed 
to do anything more to put matters right. He noted the volatility in the oil price on the day in 
question and sought confirmation that the price had been outside that which Mr D2 was 
initially trying to obtain. He explained that where there had been an error on the part of the 
business, our general approach was to ensure the consumer was placed back in the position 
theyd be in but for the error  ie if it had never occurred. 
The investigator was satisfied that if the system problems hadnt occurred then, given the 
price over the period in question, the first buy order placed by Mr D2 that wouldve been 
successful was the order at 09:34 for $1:35, so IBUKs offer was fair.  
Mr D2 remained of the view that a lower price couldve been achieved. So, as no agreement 
could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I appreciate it will have been very frustrating for Mr D2 to experience problems when trying 
to close the position on Mr D1s account. He clearly went to a lot of effort to try and resolve 
the matter, first instigating the chat and then speaking with a member of staff. 
But there will be occasions where systems such as IBUKs experience problems. And as is 
quite common, the terms of its client agreement provide for such circumstances, confirming 
that it does not guarantee that the service will work all the time. 
However, it has accepted on this occasion that its system issue created a problem and has 
made an offer to acknowledge that. Its for me to decide whether what IBUK has offered is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Im satisfied that when Mr D2 initially tried to close the position the orders he placed were 
below market price. Ive seen evidence that shows the price to buy the options shortly after 
09:00 was around the $1.30 mark, so well above the £0.90 and $1.00 that Mr D2 initially 
attempted. It was only when he submitted a further order a little later, at 09:34 for $1:35, that 
he wouldve been successful, had it not been for IBUKs system problems.
I understand that by the time Mr D2 spoke to someone at IBUK around an hour later the 
price had fallen back to around the $1.25 mark, so he feels that if the system had been 
working then he wouldve been able to achieve that better price, or even lower. But if the 
system problems hadnt occurred in the first place, then, as noted, the $1.35 order wouldve 
executed successfully at 09:34, and the position wouldve been closed. So, Mr D2 wouldnt 
have been having the conversation with IBUK and looking at the price at the later time.
So, in all the circumstances, while I appreciate Mr D2 will be very disappointed, I think the 
approach IBUK has adopted in offering compensation is fair and reasonable and I wont be 
directing it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman