DRN-3382209
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) recorded a default on his 
credit file. 
What happened
RBS sent Mr O a number of letters early on in 2018 about the management of his account 
and his outstanding overdraft balance and asked him to get in touch. Mr O got in touch and 
said he would clear the excess balance once he started a new job. RBS put a hold on his 
account to allow time for him to do this but following no action his account entered 
recoveries in May 2018. RBS recorded a default on his credit file and wrote off the debt 
which amounted to £209.03. 
Mr O complained to RBS that a default was showing on his credit report when he didnt know 
he still had an outstanding balance on his overdraft. RBS said it followed the correct 
procedures and gave notice about what was to happen to his account if he didnt pay the 
outstanding balance including applying a default to his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns and reached the conclusion that RBS 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr O fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed he says he was never made aware of the terms of his overdraft and should 
never have been given one to begin with. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr O has experienced and see if RBS has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr O back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr Os main complaint point is that it was unfair RBS registered a default on his credit file. 
So the question I have to ask is whether RBS did anything wrong in closing Mr Os
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that RBS acted unfairly when 
it closed Mr Os account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can see that 
RBS sent three letters to the address it had registered for Mr O notifying him that his account 
was in arrears and what was to happen to his account if no action was taken. 
Mr O must have received these letters or understood his account was in arrears as following 
these letters RBSs records show Mr O got in contact and RBS placed a hold on Mr Os 
account to allow him time to start a new job and clear the outstanding balance. As this 
wasnt done RBS closed his account, registered the default and wrote off the debt in July 
2020. 
So Im satisfied RBS was entitled to make the decision to close Mr Os account as it gave Mr 
O plenty notice of what was to happen if he didnt take appropriate action. 
And I dont think RBS did anything wrong in transferring his account to recoveries when he 
failed to pay back what he owed it  I think its reasonable for RBS to put steps in place to 
recover this  and register a default on his credit file.
I understand that Mr O is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but
RBS has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think RBS treated Mr O unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman