DRN-3156831
The complaint
Mr K complains that he received unsuitable advice from Wealthwise Corporate Financial 
Management Ltd (WCFM) an Appointed Representative (AR) of ValidPath Limited 
(ValidPath) to invest in Stirling Mortimer No 6 (Morocco).
What happened
 On 25 July 2007, Mr K signed Terms of Business with WCFM. This set out that: 
Wealthwise CFM Ltd is an independent adviser and will act on your behalf in 
advising you on life assurance, pensions, general insurance & investments from 
different companies
Wealthwise CFM Ltd is permitted to arrange (bring about) deals in investments and 
advise on investments. The particular investment types relate to life assurance, 
pensions, investments in authorised collective investment schemes, Unit Trust PEPs 
and ISAs.
WCFM completed a fact-find on the same date, this set out Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time, including that: 
He had two dependent children.
He was the co-director of an engineering company.
He had no other investments. 
His attitude to risk was between balanced and adventurous.
He didnt have a company pension scheme nor was he paying into any pension 
schemes, but he did have a paid-up pension. 
He had an outstanding interest-only mortgage of £280,000.
His objective was to review his pension arrangements. 
On 13 August 2007, WCFM issued a suitability letter, this set out:
You require a pension with the flexibility to allow you to take your tax free cash, but 
as you are a 40% taxpayer, do not want any taxable income generated from this. The 
answer therefore, would be to be able to make use of a drawdown or Unsecured 
Pension Fund arrangement. The policy you have with [name of ceding provider] is 
stakeholder charged in that the costs associated are low but it does not offer these 
facilities.
You are unsure as to when you wish to take your lump sum due to changing personal 
circumstances, but you understand that taking benefits from you [sic] pension 
scheme will reduce the amount available on retirement. You have sufficient other 
assets, including your business and potential inheritance to feel that this is not a 
problem. 
We have discussed your attitude to risk and although you are prepared to take risk in 
order to increase the potential return we have decided to invest your money in the 
deposit funds whilst uncertainty surrounds the markets. Once the transfer is 
completed we will complete a full risk assessment and switch funds according to your 
risk profile and when you consider you may wish to access your cash
The membership certificate confirming the setup of the SIPP was dated 21 September 2007. 
This set out that £247,892.14 had been received into the SIPP. 
On 26 September 2007, Mr K applied to withdraw all available tax-free cash from his SIPP. 
WCFMs details were recorded in the financial adviser section of the application. 
On 15 April 2008, a form appointing Mr K investment manager of part of his SIPP and an 
investment switch form were signed. WCFMs details were recorded in the financial adviser 
section of the application and it was indicated that Mr K would still like the SIPP provider to 
accept investment instructions on his behalf from WCFM as his adviser. 
On 16 April 2008, WCFM sent the above investment manager forms along with the 
application form for Stirling Mortimer No. 6 Fund Morocco (Stirling Mortimer) [the investment 
that is the subject of this complaint] to the pension provider. Mr K invested just over 76,000 
euros in the Stirling Mortimer investment.  
In September 2017, Mr K received a statement from his pension provider; this showed that 
the fund had gone in to liquidation. Shortly after this, Mr K was sent a statement with an 
update from Stirling Mortimer. Mr K then complained to the SIPP provider that he hadnt 
been informed earlier that the investment was in trouble. Mr K later complained to ValidPath 
about the advice he received to invest in Stirling Mortimer. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that:
The complaint had been brought in time.
The activities that are the subject of the complaint were done in the carrying on of a 
regulated activity.
ValidPath is responsible for those activities.
The advice given to Mr K to invest in Stirling Mortimer wasnt suitable. 
Mr K accepted our investigators opinion. ValidPath disagreed. Ive read all of its 
submissions and Ive included a brief summary of the key points here. 
What ValidPath said: 
Mr K was financially astute and took an ongoing interest in his investments.
The complaint has been brought out of time because Mr K ought reasonably to have 
become aware of the problems with the investment more than three years before the 
complaint was raised.
ValidPath isnt responsible for WCFMs activities under Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Section 39, weve misinterpreted the case law in this area 
(Anderson v Sense Network). 
Its internal procedures and standards were core to the business it accepted.
WCFM breached its procedures not only by not reporting its business to it, WCFM 
also actively hid those activities. This breach was serious enough to mean that the 
advice in relation to the relevant investments wasnt business for which it accepted 
responsibility. 
WCFM wasnt permitted to advise on Unauthorised Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS). Its Terms of Business set out that WCFM couldnt advise on UCIS, such as Stirling 
Mortimer. 
WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in respect of the advice complained about.
WCFM didnt follow the procedures ValidPath had in place or its compliance 
requirements.
ValidPath didnt have an agency with Stirling Mortimer. As the regulated firm it was 
for ValidPath to enter into agencies, in turn it hadnt accepted responsibility for this 
business. 
The only part of the entire process WCFM was required to follow under ValidPaths 
processes and compliance requirements that it completed, was the Terms of 
Business and that document explicitly excludes UCIS. 
In conclusion, the complaints been brought out of time and, even if it wasnt, 
ValidPath wasnt responsible for WCFMs actions in this instance. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for review. I issued my 
provisional decision on 11 October 2021, explaining why I thought this complaint was one 
we could consider and one that should be upheld. 
As I said in my provisional decision the other investments held within Mr Ks SIPP have been 
considered under a separate complaint. So, here Ive focused on the sale of the Stirling 
Mortimer investment not the wider transaction.
Mr K accepted my findings. ValidPath didnt. It made further submissions in support of its 
position. Ive considered what ValidPaths said in its entirety, including its previous 
submissions. Its response to my provisional decision focuses on two broad points: 
The complaints been brought out of time: 
oWCFM continue to be the servicing financial adviser for Mr Ks pension, now 
as a directly authorised firm; so
oIts maintained an ongoing relationship with Mr K and as servicing financial 
adviser have been required by regulation to provide Mr K with periodic 
assessments of suitability since ceasing to be ValidPaths AR in 2010; 
oIn light of WCFMs continued involvement, amongst other things, its not 
possible that Mr K couldve been ignorant of the issues with Stirling Mortimer 
between 2008 and 2017. 
oWCFM must have been aware of the issues with Stirling Mortimer by at least 
the 2013 review, so its unreasonable to conclude that Mr K wouldnt have 
had sufficient awareness of his grounds for complaint far earlier than 2014; 
oThere was press coverage about Stirling Mortimer outside of the financial 
press, for example there were Daily Mail reports in 2011 and Telegraph 
reports in 2014. 
The advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer isnt business for which it accepted 
responsibility: 
oThe fund wasnt a collective and wasnt regulated/authorised; so 
oIt explicitly falls outside of the terms set out in the Terms of Business Mr K 
signed; and, as such
oWasnt covered by the client agreement with WCFM and, in turn, ValidPath; 
also
oValidPath has no direct agency relationship with Stirling Mortimer to facilitate 
the investment. This was done by WCFM unilaterally and outside the scope of 
the AR agreement. Because ValidPath didnt accept my provisional decision, the complaint was passed back to 
me for review. ValidPaths response focuses on issues that I addressed at some length in 
my provisional decision. Having carefully considered these submissions my findings remain 
as set out in that decision. So, Ive broadly reiterated my findings in respect of these issues 
in this decision  and, where Ive felt it appropriate, expanded on these to reflect my 
consideration of ValidPaths latest submissions. ValidPath hasnt disputed all of the findings 
set out in my provisional decision, for example; the subject of the complaint, that the 
complaint relates to regulated activities or my findings on the merits of the complaint. 
However, for the sake of completeness Ive reiterated these findings as well.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction 
I have to decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules 
that apply. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that theyll not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 
In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint where its been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or, if later,
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
It isnt in dispute that the event happened more than six years before the complaint was 
raised. So, Ive focused on whether or not Mr K became  or ought reasonably to have 
become  aware of his cause for complaint more than three years before he referred the 
complaint. 
ValidPath say that the press coverage, drop in value of the investments and the meetings 
that Mr K ought to have been having with WCFM ought reasonably to have led to Mr K 
becoming aware that he had cause for complaint more than three years before he raised the 
complaint. 
The press coverage ValidPath referenced are predominantly articles in the financial press. I 
wouldnt necessarily expect a retail client to be aware of these. There wasnt a national press 
campaign or prolific coverage to the point that it would be reasonable to conclude Mr K 
ought reasonably to have become aware of the problems faced by the investment via media 
coverage. 
In response to my provisional decision ValidPath highlighted some press coverage from 
outlets which are generally viewed as mainstream media outlets, not focused on financial 
issues. However, this doesnt change my view that I cant fairly find that Mr K ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint based on some press 
articles. I remain of the view that this coverage wasnt sufficient to reach that conclusion. 
ValidPaths arguments as to why the complaint should be time-barred  made both prior to 
and in response to my provisional decision  focus heavily on what WCFM ought to have 
known and relayed to Mr K and what shouldve been discussed in meetings WCFM ought to 
have had with Mr K. The test is what Mr K knew or ought reasonably to have known  this is 
based on information available to him. I cant decide what Mr K knew  or ought to have 
known  based on what WCFM ought to have done, in the absence of evidence that it 
actually did this. I havent been provided with any evidence that Mr K had meetings with 
WCFM within which he was told about any problems with the investment more than three 
years before the complaint was raised. 
ValidPaths submitted evidence confirming that WCFM remains the servicing financial 
adviser on the pension, its said this is new evidence that supports its position. However, my 
findings above acknowledge and were based on an understanding that there was an 
ongoing relationship with WCFM. As above, I havent seen any evidence that WCFM 
actually held regular reviews with Mr K or that it discussed the problems with Stirling 
Mortimer during any such meetings. To be clear, I dont disagree with ValidPath that under 
the circumstances WCFM shouldve held meetings with Mr K and that it shouldve at least 
informed him about the issues with Stirling Mortimer. But, thats not evidence that this happened  or, in turn, that Mr K knew or ought reasonably to have known that he had 
cause for complaint. 
We have copies of the annual statements Mr K received in respect of his SIPP. Based on 
these, the SIPP provider didnt drop the value of the investment on the annual statements 
provided to Mr K until September 2017. In the absence of evidence that Mr K was otherwise 
made aware of the issues with the Stirling Mortimer investment, I think these wouldve 
reassured him that the investment retained significant value. Mr K complained to ValidPath 
within a few months of receiving the 2017 annual statement. 
ValidPath says that Mr Ks awareness of a problem with the other investments in his SIPP, 
as evidenced by his complaint about these, ought to have alerted him to a potential problem 
with his Stirling Mortimer investment. Ive therefore carefully considered the evidence in 
connection with his other complaint in order to see if there is relevant information that might 
impact the date of reasonable awareness in this complaint. Mr K complained about the poor 
performance of his other SIPP investments on in September 2016 and he raised this 
complaint about the Stirling Mortimer investment just over a year later. Overall, Im satisfied 
that, even if that were taken as the start date for the three-year period for referral in this 
complaint, Mr Ks still referred his complaint in time.  
Taking everything into account, I think the complaint has been brought in time.
Other jurisdiction considerations
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Section 22 (Regulated Activities) 
provides that: 
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b) in the case of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates 
to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding); 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firm has accepted responsibility).Under section 39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs
FSMA says under Article 19, The general prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is - 
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it says:
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person)   
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which 
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals in investments. 
So, for me to conclude that this is a complaint that we can consider, I need to consider three 
questions:
1. What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2. Were the acts about which Mr K complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
3. Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mr K complains that he lost all of the money he invested in Stirling Mortimer. He says he was 
approached by WCFM and he was advised to transfer his pension to a SIPP. The funds initially went into a cash account and, a few months later, WCFM recommended several 
investments, including the Stirling Mortimer investment. 
The funds were split as follows:
39% in the [Mr Ks name] SIPP (these monies were invested in Stirling Mortimer). 
41% in Arch Cru.
10% in Allianz RCM BRIC Stars (Brazil, Russia, India and China).
10% in JP Morgan Natural Resources.
Mr K says it was his understanding  based on what WCFM told him  that the Stirling 
Mortimer and Arch Cru investments were safe, lower risk and intended to balance the two 
higher risk investments of 10% each, as above. 
I think the complaint reasonably encompasses the advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer and 
the arranging of the investment. 
Were the acts about which Mr K complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are set out in Part II of FSMA (Regulated Activities) Order 200 (RAO). 
They include:
Advising on investments where the advice relates to buying, selling, subscribing for 
or underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a contractually based 
investment (article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments for another personto buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite a particular investment which is a security or relevant investment (article 
25 RAO).
Its clearly documented that WCFM advised Mr K to transfer his pension to a SIPP. The plan 
set out in the suitability letter was for the funds to go into a cash/interest bearing fund initially 
 and then, for further advice to be given on how the funds should be invested. That seems 
to be whats happened, even though the documentation is limited. A few months after the 
SIPP was in place WCFM sent the SIPP provider a fund switch form with instructions to 
invest the funds as set out above along with a cover letter from WCFM.
Its clear that WCFM and Mr K had an ongoing advisory relationship. The application and 
investment manager forms that were submitted by WCFM, included handwritten notes 
written by it and ensured that WCFM would be able to make investments on Mr Ks behalf. 
As above, the plan set out in the suitability report was for WCFM to undertake a more 
detailed assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk and recommend suitable investments when the 
timing was right. Despite the absence of a further suitability report I think this is what most 
likely happened. 
Theres no evidence that Mr K was an experienced investor or that he came across the 
Stirling Mortimer investment himself or through the involvement of another party. Based on 
Mr Ks circumstances and what hes told us, and in light of the commitment made by WCFM 
in its suitability report to give further advice on the underlying assets of the SIPP, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr Ks investment in the Stirling Mortimer fund came about as a 
result of advice given to him by WCFM to invest in that fund.  I also note that WCFM submitted the application forms for the investments including Stirling 
Mortimer to the SIPP provider, thereby making arrangements.
Taking all of this into account, I think its more likely than not that WCFM did advise Mr K to 
invest in Stirling Mortimer and made arrangements for Mr K to make this investment. 
Further, its my view that these activities qualify as the regulated activities of advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments, as defined in the RAO. 
It isnt contested that the Stirling Mortimer investment was a specified investment. There is, 
unfortunately, very little information available now regarding the details of the fund and how it 
operated. Im aware that the fund was part of the Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund 
PCC Ltd (SMGPF), a protected cell company with limited liability based in Guernsey. My 
understanding is that the fund had at least some of the features of a collective investment 
scheme (funds were pooled together and investors didnt have day to day control over their 
management) but it was neither authorised nor recognised by the FSA or FCA (in other 
words, if it was a collective investment scheme, it wouldve been a UCIS). Im also aware 
that investors like Mr K were effectively purchasing shares in the fund and Ive seen Mr Ks 
subscription contract which showed the subscription on his behalf of preference shares in 
the Stirling Mortimer fund valued at 76,506.02 euros. I accept that theres, in turn, likely to be 
more than one possible basis on which the activity was regulated under the RAO.  
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Ks complaint relates to activities done in the carrying on of the 
regulated activities of advising on investments and arranging deals in investments.  
The next question is whether that business was business for which ValidPath had accepted 
responsibility. To the extent that it was merely the purchase of shares, I can see no effective 
restriction on the carrying on of that activity in the AR Agreement. ValidPath originally said 
that the Stirling Mortimer investment was a UCIS and that such business was expressly 
restricted by operation of the Terms of Business between Mr K and WCFM. In response to 
my provisional decision ValidPath said that Stirling Mortimer wasnt a collective, but it 
maintains that the Terms of Business restricted WCFM from advising on such investments. 
And, overall, that this wasnt business that WCFM was permitted to undertake or for which it, 
in turn, had accepted responsibility. Ive given careful thought to what ValidPath says in this 
regard in the following section of this decision. 
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
As set out above, DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
It follows that the question then is: were the advising and arranging activities conducted by 
WCFM for Mr K activities for which ValidPath is responsible?  
When Im considering responsibility by way of Section 39 FSMA, the test is: were those 
activities done in the carrying on of business for which ValidPath has accepted 
responsibility?  
ValidPaths adamant that it isnt responsible for the sale of the Stirling Mortimer investment 
and any advice given in respect of this. Its assertions are based on a number of arguments, 
in particular:WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in relation to the sale of the Stirling Mortimer 
investment complained about. 
It didnt authorise WCFM to undertake the type of business thats the subject of this 
complaint. 
The way in which WCFM went about undertaking the business is in breach of the 
compliance and procedural requirements in place.
WCFM actively hid its activities.
At the time of the advice WCFM was an AR of ValidPath. This is confirmed by the FCAs 
register and Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that WCFM was 
acting in any capacity other than as AR of ValidPath at the time of the activities in question. 
Its clear from the available paperwork that WCFM was and had been acting as Mr Ks 
investment adviser in respect of his pension. Its documented that WCFM, as AR of 
ValidPath, recommended the switch that made the investment in Stirling Mortimer possible 
and, as I say above, WCFM had given an assurance in the suitability report that further 
advice on the conversion of the assets in the SIPP would be given. As a result, Ive found its 
more likely than not that the advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer was given by WCFM.
The available paperwork from WCFM includes the cover letter submitting the application for 
Stirling Mortimer  along with other documents  to the SIPP provider; these included a 
footer stating that WCFM was an AR of ValidPath. In light of the documentation referenced 
and other circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied that WCFM was acting as AR of 
ValidPath when undertaking the acts complained about.
So, Ive gone on to consider if the acts that are the subject of this complaint comprise 
business for which ValidPath had accepted responsibility.
To answer this, Ive carefully considered the scope of the authority provided by ValidPath to 
WCFM by means of the appointed representative agreement.  
ValidPath says it sent WCFM an agreement for it to execute, but WCFM didnt return this 
and in turn it doesnt have a copy of a signed agreement. 
Instead, ValidPath has provided a copy of an agreement which another of its ARs was 
subject to and said that the same terms applied to WCFM. Ive seen nothing to indicate that 
might not be the case. I therefore consider it reasonable to accept this standard agreement 
as indicative of the appointed representative contract agreed between ValidPath and WCFM.  
That contract set out the business for which ValidPath accepted responsibility. Ive reviewed 
the agreement carefully. In short, my view is that ValidPath had accepted responsibility for 
the activities of WCFM that are the subject of Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain my view below.  
In so far as relevant, the agreement provided that:
2. The Company accepts responsibility for the activities of the Member carrying on 
investment business of the kind and for the purposes for which the Member is hereby 
appointed.
3. The Member hereby agrees to act as an agent on behalf of the Company in respect 
of the  Products (as defined herein) pursuant to the written Terms and Conditions 
and hereby confirms he/she has read and fully understood the same Terms and 
Conditions.The functions of the member are defined as:
1.1 The member is appointed for the purpose of procuring or endeavouring to procure 
clients and prospective Clients to enter into Contracts and (for that purpose) giving 
advice to clients and prospective clients about entering into such Contracts.
The relevant terms of the clause are defined as:
Contracts are defined as contract(s) for the Products entered into or to be entered 
into by the client with the Institutions. 
Products are defined as policies of assurance, annuity contracts, pensions plans or 
policies and such other products and services (including but without limitation critical 
illness and permanent health insurance policies) and term assurance policies as shall 
from time to time be dealt in by the Company subject (in the case of investment 
business) to the provisions of Schedule 3.
Institutions are defined as any insurance or assurance company, life office, broker, 
unit trust manager, stockbroker, building society, bank, finance house or other 
financial institution.
The members duties are set out under clause 4:
The Member and the Controller(s) shall have the following obligations to the 
Company and shall abide by and procure that Registered Individuals abide by the 
following rules and regulations:
the Member and the Controller(s) agree and covenant to carry on investment 
business activities strictly in accordance with paragraph 10, and Schedule 3 (see 
also FSA Scope of Permission).
Clause 10.2 limits the ARs activities: 
The Member shall limit its activities in relation to investment business and conduct 
and transact only those classes of investment in relation to which the Company has 
authorisation, as detailed in Schedule 3
Schedule 3 sets out that: 
In accordance with paragraphs 4.1 and 10 above, the Member, its Controller(s), 
Officers and Registered Individuals agree to partake in the following investment 
business activity only, for which the Company is authorised to transact by the FSA 
under its scope of permissions notice
Schedule 3 states that the relevant Regulated Activity is Advising on investments and the 
Investment Types are as follows:
Certificates representing certain security
Debenture
Government and public security
Life Policy
Rights to or interests in investments (Contractually Based Investments)
Rights to or interests in investments (Security)Share
Stakeholder pension scheme
Unit
Warrant
It follows that in order for ValidPath to accept responsibility, the relevant activity by WCFM 
must be of a kind for which WCFM was appointed and for a purpose for which WCFM was 
appointed. Clause 2.1 explains the purpose of the appointment, namely procuring clients to 
enter into Contracts and (for that purpose) giving advice to clients and prospective clients 
about entering into such Contracts. It follows that any advice to actual or prospective clients 
about entering into a Contract thats directed towards procuring the client to enter into a 
Contract is within the AR agreements purpose. Its therefore important to establish what 
are, and arent, Contracts under the AR agreement and this turns on the definitions of 
contracts, institutions and products (above). 
Contracts are defined within the AR agreement, as set out above, as contract(s) for the 
Products entered into or to be entered into by the client with the Institutions [my 
emphasis].
Its clear from Schedule 3 that permitted investment types included a unit. A unit is defined 
in the FCA Handbook Glossary as units in a collective investment scheme (art 81 RAO), 
which, if it met the definition of a UCIS, would squarely cover the Stirling Mortimer 
investment. However, I do note that ValidPath no longer accepts that Stirling Mortimer was a 
collective. But, permitted investment types also include shares. As Ive said above, Mr K 
purchased preference shares in the Stirling Mortimer fund. 
An institution is defined as including a financial institution. This is further defined in the AR 
agreement, but its given a broad definition generally and its meaning will depend on the 
context in which it is used. In this case, it seems fairly clear that a financial institution was 
intended to cover the range of institutions that might provide the type of investment contract 
permitted by Schedule 3. From this, it seems reasonable to say that either Heritage 
International Fund Managers Limited, as administrators of Stirling Mortimer Global Property 
Fund PCC Limited, or Stirling Mortimer itself would qualify as an institution as required.   
In its submissions to this service, ValidPaths referred to its product provider agencies. It 
says it didnt have an agency with Stirling Mortimer and that it was for it as the authorised 
firm to enter into agency agreements. ValidPath says that because it had no agency 
agreement with Stirling Mortimer  because WCFM hadnt followed the established process 
 this wasnt business for which it had accepted responsibility. The AR agreement didnt limit 
the institutions WCFM could deal with to those with which ValidPath had an agency 
agreement. Ive carefully considered what ValidPaths said but Im not persuaded that the 
terms of the AR agreement preclude WCFM from advising Mr K to invest in Stirling Mortimer 
or that this wasnt business for which it accepted responsibility. 
All in all, in my view, advice to Mr K to invest in Stirling Mortimer is advice on investments in 
line with ValidPaths permissions as set out in Schedule 3 and theres nothing within the 
definitions of contracts, products or institutions respectively which would preclude this advice 
from being in line with the purpose and scope of WCFMs appointment.  
Taking all of this into account, I think that by way of the AR agreement, ValidPath permitted 
WCFM to advise Mr K on its behalf on the merits of utilising a portion of his pension to invest 
in Stirling Mortimer. The next question is whether there are any other provisions which may restrict the scope of 
that permission.  
The Terms of Business 
I note that the signed Terms of Business agreed between WCFM and Mr K provided that:
Wealthwise CFM Ltd is permitted to arrange (bring about) deals in investments and 
advice on investments. The particular investment types relate to life assurance, 
pensions, investments in authorised collective investment schemes, Unit Trust 
PEPs and ISAs [my emphasis].
ValidPath originally said this meant that bringing about deals in unauthorised collective 
schemes was prohibited. It said: This is evidence that WCFM was not acting as an agent of 
ValidPath when undertaking Mr K's Stirling Mortimer investment. Furthermore, under s.39 
FSMA, it is confirmation in writing that ValidPath was NOT accepting responsibility for such 
business. As Ive mentioned, its since said that Stirling Mortimer wasnt a collective, but it 
maintains that, unregulated/unauthorised investments  such as Stirling Mortimer  werent 
permitted under the Terms of Business. 
At the outset, I note of course that the Terms of Business were distinct from the AR 
agreement. They were agreed between WCFM and Mr K, and were designed to set out the 
services and obligations offered by WCFM to Mr K. They were directed at the relationship 
between WCFM and Mr K. The appointed representative agreement on the other hand, was 
a contract that spoke to the obligations and duties in the relationship between WCFM and 
Validpath.  
It follows that, because they were distinct agreements, the apparent restriction on the scope 
of the permissions (outlined above) will only have the effect ValidPath says it has if we can 
reasonably say that the restriction was incorporated into the AR agreement (if it isnt, then 
the restrictions in the Terms of Business will merely regulate the dealings between WCFM 
and Mr K and not between ValidPath and WCFM).  
With this in mind, I note that the Terms of Business are referenced in the AR agreement, in 
that it specifies that these needed to be provided to every client in a timely manner, in the 
format prescribed by ValidPath and in compliance with the FCAs rules. Clause 4.4 reads: 
The Member shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of 
Business (which shall be supplied timeously to every client) in the format prescribed 
by the Company and in compliance with the FSA rules as amended from time to 
time. 
Ive therefore considered whether that clause might have effectively incorporated the Terms 
of Business into the AR agreement.  
Clause 4.4 appears to be directed at two matters: 
(a) It requires that the client agreements entered into between WCFM and its clients 
shall be provided in good time on ValidPaths prescribed Terms of Business. Its in 
turn aimed at the establishment of the contract in the prescribed form  i.e. WCFM is 
only to use ValidPaths Terms of Business and must provide those to the client at an 
early stage. It doesnt seem to create a duty owed by WCFM to ValidPath to comply 
with the provisions contained in that form.  (b) It requires that in conducting business with clients, WCFM must comply with FSA 
Rules. 
Neither of those matters specifically concerns either the kinds of products that can be sold or 
the purpose for which they can be sold. Given that those matters are both the subject of very 
specific delimitation in the AR agreement and Schedule 3, it seems doubtful to me that 
Clause 4.4 is intended to impact them. If that were the case, I would expect to see clear 
language to that effect. I recognise that ValidPaths interpretation might be implied from the 
words shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of Business, but I 
consider the plain, sensible interpretation is that the clause is aimed at compliance with the 
form and timing of the Terms of Business and not with the scope of responsibility, which is 
more clearly expressed with some particularity in Schedule 3 of the AR agreement.  
In making this point, I also note that in any event, the relevant clause under our Services in 
the Terms of Business, which tells the client the particular investment types to which 
WCFMs arranging and advice will relate, appears to me to be informational, rather than 
prescriptive and binding on WCFM   i.e. it can more readily be interpreted as an informal 
summary for the client of the kinds of products identified in the AR agreement. It doesnt 
have the force of an operative contractual condition that prohibits WCFM from giving the 
customer other kinds of advice.
The Terms of Business also set out that: 
Following the issue of this letter any subsequent advice or recommendation offered 
to you will be based on your stated investment objectives, acceptable level of risk 
and any restrictions you wish to place on the type of investments or policies you are 
willing to consider. Details of your stated objectives will be included in the suitability 
letter we will issue to you to confirm our recommendation. Unless confirmed in 
writing, to the contrary, we will assume that you do not wish to place any restrictions 
on the advice we give you.
I also tend to think that if there were any conflict between the AR agreement and Terms of 
Business as to the scope of the former, I would expect the AR agreements terms and 
conditions to be definitive rather than the more informational terms in the Terms of Business, 
as they are specifically and clearly aimed at establishing the permitted kinds of products. 
All in all, its my view that the scope of the permissions is confined to the relevant provisions 
in the AR agreement and that the meaning of those provisions isnt affected by the operation 
of the Terms of Business, which regulates the relationship between WCFM and the client 
and in doing so, merely provides information about the type of investments that may be 
recommended to them.  
Compliance breaches 
ValidPaths also argued that a number of its internal processes hadnt been followed by 
WCFM when conducting the activities in question, and that in turn the activities fell outside 
the scope of its accepted responsibility. However, I should make it clear that a failure to 
follow a requirement that regulates the manner in which an authorised activity is conducted 
doesnt necessarily put that activity outside the operation of Section 39 (as an activity for 
which the principal firm didnt accept responsibility).  
I accept that there are processes that WCFM didnt follow when transacting the relevant 
business for Mr K. For example, it didnt complete the appropriate paperwork and the 
business wasnt reported to ValidPath. In my view these requirements are standards to be met in respect of how an AR should go about undertaking business on behalf of ValidPath 
rather than effective restrictions on the type of business they can undertake.
Failure to follow such processes in this instance doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt 
responsible for the advice complained about. In Anderson v SenseNetwork [2018] EWHC 
2834, in the High Court decision that was later upheld by the Court of Appeal, the judge said 
that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to 
offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise 
on a related transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to 
be fulfilled before a product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in 
question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken [my emphasis]. Equally, the approach must not be so broad 
that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very AR agreement relied upon in 
support of the case that the principal has accepted responsibility for the business in 
question.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that WCFMs failure to follow certain 
procedures doesnt alter the effect of Section 39 in this case and Im satisfied that we can 
consider Mr Ks complaint against ValidPath.
Ive taken into account everything ValidPath has submitted about WCFMs behaviour  and 
its clear that there have been problems in the relationship  but, Im satisfied that this 
doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt responsible for its former ARs activities which are the 
subject of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why  merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
WCFM was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties WCFM had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice.
As Ive mentioned on a number of occasions, there isnt a lot of paperwork from the point of 
sale. Looking at the fact-find and suitability letter for the switch advice Im not persuaded that 
WCFM gathered enough information about Mr Ks circumstances and knowledge to satisfy 
the above requirements. 
The risk assessment weve been provided with is very limited and it isnt clear what the 
eventual rating is based on. In justification of the switch advice its stated that Mr K had 
enough assets outside his pension to risk reducing the benefits available at retirement. No 
detail is provided as to what those assets (aside from his business) were and the fact-find states that Mr K had no investments or personal pension provision aside from the pension 
that was transferred. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr Ks circumstances and investment experience dont point to 
him being a very high-risk and experienced investor  but, I do think he was prepared to take 
some risk. The language used in the suitability report isnt clear in describing the approach to 
be taken or the level of volatility Mr K would need to be willing to accept in taking a more 
adventurous approach. Whilst, as I understand it, Mr K says it was his understanding that 
the Stirling Mortimer investment was relatively low risk  that wasnt the case. Taking into 
account the rest of the portfolio, Mr Ks pension was invested in a high-risk manner. 
Im not persuaded that Mr K had the capacity for loss to justify taking such an adventurous 
approach to investing his only personal pension provision. I dont think that the Stirling 
Mortimer investment was suitable for him  particularly, when taking into account how the 
rest of his pension was invested. I think that a medium risk fund investing in mixed asset 
classes wouldve been suitable for Mr K.
It hasnt been suggested that Mr K was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
go against suitable advice from his adviser. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive 
considered this  and, I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr K was 
likely to disregard suitable advice. I find that Mr K wouldnt have invested in Stirling Mortimer 
had suitable advice been given by WCFM. 
Under the circumstances, I find that its fair and reasonable for ValidPath to compensate 
Mr K for the financial losses hes suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice to invest in 
Stirling Mortimer. In addition to the financial loss established, I think that the loss of a 
significant amount of his pension provision caused Mr K much distress and inconvenience 
and that ValidPath should compensate him for this. 
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr K would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should ValidPath do?
To compensate Mr K fairly, ValidPath must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
ValidPath should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, ValidPath should pay into Mr K's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. If ValidPath is unable to pay the total amount into Mr K's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr K £750 for the distress and upset caused by the loss of a significant 
proportion of his pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ValidPath deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. ValidPath should give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Monies 
invested in 
Stirling 
Mortimerstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. ValidPath should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If ValidPath is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. ValidPath may require that Mr K provides an undertaking to 
pay ValidPath any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. ValidPath will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ValidPath totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
A medium risk investment would have been suitable for Mr K.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr K's circumstances and risk attitude.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that this is a complaint we can consider and that it should be upheld. I 
direct ValidPath Limited to pay the amount calculated as set out above to Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman