DRN-2685647
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zenith Insurance plc avoided his car insurance policy after he claimed 
on it following an accident. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in a car accident with a third partys car. He claimed on his insurance for 
the damage and asked Zenith for a garage close to an address Ill refer to as L, which wasnt 
near the address his policy said his car was kept at. 
Zenith queried this with Mr P who said he stayed in L during the week, but the car was kept 
at the address listed on the policy. He said the car was only in L at that time as it needed 
repairing. Zenith asked for details of Mr Ps driving licence and the V5 for his car to verify the 
claim. 
When Mr P provided these and Zenith noticed the V5 was in another persons name and 
didnt have the same address as the one on the policy. Mr P said hed registered the car to 
his sister so he could get a parking permit for when the car was taken to L so it could be 
parked at her address. Zenith said if it had known the car was registered to Mr Ps sister 
then it wouldnt have offered him cover. Because of this Zenith declined his claim, avoided 
his policy (cancelled as if it never existed) and said it would refund his premium. 
Mr P didnt think this was fair and complained. He said Zenith could only avoid his policy if 
hed been deliberate or reckless when taking it out. Mr P said hed made a genuine mistake 
of not updating the details on the aggregator site hed used to take out the policy. Zenith 
reviewed Mr Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr P didnt think this was fair, he referred 
his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt think Zenith had done anything 
wrong. She found that Mr P had been asked a clear question and that if hed answered it 
correctly then Zenith wouldnt have offered him cover. She also said that while Zenith had 
said it would refund his premium, she thought it was fair for Zenith to off-set it against the 
third-party claim. Mr P didnt agree as he thought Zenith could only avoid the policy if hed 
made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
As Mr P didnt agree with our Investigator the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zenith thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said he was the registered keeper of the car. Ive looked at the question Mr P was asked 
when he took out the policy, he was asked Are you the registered owner and legal keeper of 
the car? There is then a yes or no option and Mr P answered yes. As he wasnt the 
registered keeper then he should have answered this as no. If Mr P had answered this 
question correctly then other questions would have appeared and one of these says: Who is 
the registered keeper? and is followed by a drop-down menu with different options to which 
Mr P should have chosen, the most appropriate for his circumstances. As Mr P didnt answer 
these questions correctly, Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy. 
Zenith has provided evidence which shows if Mr P had answered these questions correctly 
then it wouldnt have provided cover for him. This means Im satisfied Mr Ps 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Zenith has said it thinks Mr Ps misrepresentation is 
a careless one. I think this is fair given Mr Ps said it was a mistake not to update the 
aggregator site to show the registered keeper wasnt him. 
Zenith has shown it wouldnt have offered cover and said it will refund Mr Ps premium, this 
is the remedy allowed under CIDRA for a careless qualifying misrepresentation, so I dont 
think its done anything wrong here. I also think its fair and reasonable to offset the refund of 
premiums against the third-party claim costs. Im therefore not going to interfere with Zenith 
decision or tell it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman