DRN-2569256
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of an 
escape of water claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware that my summary of the events below will be in less detail than the parties have 
provided, and in my own words. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that Ive carefully 
considered everything that has been provided, and Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues here.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs S noticed some staining on the kitchen ceiling. They notified their 
home emergency provider (H) and a plumber attended the property. The plumber said the 
issue was caused by a failed bath seal.
Mr and Mrs S disputed the plumbers findings, and H agreed to send out a second plumber 
to investigate the issue. This plumber removed part of the ceiling, discovered a small drip 
from a pipe, and completed a minor repair.
Mr and Mrs S then contacted Lloyds and made a claim. Lloyds contractors (D) visited the 
property and carried out an assessment of the damage. 
 
The repairs were arranged but put on hold due to the national lockdown at the end of March 
2020. During this time Mr and Mrs S carried out their own investigations and discovered a 
leak coming from a hot water pipe as well as damage to the hot water tap. They updated D 
and say they were told these issues would be covered.
In July 2020 D reattended the property and said that some of the damaged areas wouldnt 
be covered under the claim  including damage to the vanity unit in the bathroom. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Lloyds who appointed a loss adjuster to oversee the claim. The 
loss adjuster requested a further contractor (P) to attend the property and validate the 
damage.
P provided a report and reinstated the hot water at the property. In summary P said that the 
damage to the vanity unit had been caused over a period of time from poorly maintained 
areas. And P couldnt identify a singular piece of evidence to suggest a possible escape of 
water from the tap connection had caused the damage indicated.
Lloyds therefore said it had turned down part of the claim because it couldnt be shown that 
the damage had been caused by a valid escape of water event. Instead, it said the vanity 
unit had been affected by wear and tear, a lack of maintenance, and poor workmanship  all 
of which were excluded under the policy terms. And Lloyds added that if there was a leak 
from the tap connection under the unit, it wouldnt have contributed to the damage already 
identified.
 
Lloyds said it would be settling the claim for the insurable damage at its contractor rates and 
offered a cash settlement of £1489.59 for the claim. It also offered £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with Lloyds position and referred the complaint to our service. Ive 
summarised the terms of their referral below.
Mr and Mrs S said:
That Lloyds have issued an unfair and incorrect claims settlement.
There were unnecessary delays caused by Lloyds and its appointed agents.
That Lloyds carried out disproportionate investigations to the size of the claim and 
commented on things which werent material to the claim.
They were aware of two leaks in the property, but the actual source of the leak 
relevant to the claim is from the hot water feed. They say that even if the secondary 
leak contributed to the damage, it is in the same area (which is in the right place to 
cause damage to the ceiling), and therefore not relevant. 
They dont agree with the loss adjusters conclusions, both in terms of what caused 
the leak and with regard to the policy exclusions applied to the vanity unit.
That the cash settlement provided isnt in line with what was verbally agreed and not 
enough to get the works done themselves.
To put things right, Mr and Mrs S wanted:
The claim for the vanity unit accepted.
A full settlement for the repair costs from Lloyds, or for Lloyds contractors to do the 
repairs. 
Payment of a disturbance allowance as they say this had been agreed with the loss 
adjuster.
Additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
found Lloyds settlement for the insured works was fair and reasonable based on the reports 
provided. They also found Lloyds offer of a cash settlement was fair. And they concluded 
that Lloyds decision to exclude some of the damaged items was reasonable as it had shown 
the relevant policy exclusions applied.
 
Our investigator also thought Lloyds offer of compensation was fair and reasonable and 
didnt think Mr and Mrs S were entitled to a disturbance allowance payment under the 
circumstances.
 
Mr and Mrs S dont agree. They maintain that Lloyds scope of works and settlement is unfair 
and leaves them out of pocket. Mr and Mrs S did accept our investigators findings regarding 
the disturbance allowance and didnt wish to pursue this point any further.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease of reference Ive separated what I believe to be the key issues into the relevant 
headings below.
Scope of works
Ive carefully considered the photographs, testimony, and reports provided by both parties 
with regard to the damage caused by the escape of water and the necessary scope of 
works. And as the vanity unit remains the main point of dispute Ill focus on that first.
In order to uphold Mr and Mrs S point here, I would need to be persuaded that the 
predominant reason for the damage to the vanity unit was from the leak Mr and Mrs S 
identified from the hot water feed.
I can see from the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs S that there was a leak from the tap 
connector at the time they discovered it. And I dont dispute that this may have caused some 
water damage to the vanity unit. But I need to consider this against the evidence provided by 
Lloyds contractors about the overall condition of the vanity unit.
Ds report wasnt conclusive about the cause of the damage to the affected areas, but it did 
say that they found no damage to the underside or inside of the vanity unit. This report on its 
own isnt persuasive  as the report covers the whole claim and the section concerning the 
vanity unit is relatively brief. So Ive next considered Ps report.
Ps report states, Under the rear right corner, this is the area the PH [policyholder] indicated 
as peril related damage, it is clear that there are at least 3 sets of water stains on the timber 
around the bottom of the rear leg. This indicates that there must have been at least 3 
occasions where water has affected the area. 
So I think this shows that P had considered the specific area that Mr and Mrs S believe to be 
affected by the damage. But Ps report also attributes other water damage, for example 
water running off the top of the vanity surface which affected the structure below.
Ps report concludes, We consider that if there was a leak from the tap connection under the 
vanity unit it would not have contributed to the extensive damage reported. We have 
identified a number of alternative causes that have gradually caused the severity of the 
damage.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree with these conclusions because they say that the purpose of Ps 
visit was to reconnect the pipe to prove it was leaking. But instead they say P put a new pipe 
in without addressing the issue of the damaged pipe first. Mr and Mrs S also say that it is 
more likely that the one leak caused the multiple splash points and stains that P identified.
I understand why Mr and Mrs S strongly feel that Ps actions may have prejudiced the 
investigation into the cause of the damage. But on balance, I am persuaded that there is 
enough evidence in Ps report to show that they investigated and showed other likely causes 
of water damage to the vanity unit. And therefore I cant reasonably conclude that the 
predominant cause of damage can be attributed to a one-off escape of water from the pipe.
Therefore I think Lloyds decision to turn down this part of the claim using the exclusions it 
has relied on is fair and reasonable.Cash settlement
Ive considered the terms of Lloyds cash settlement. Mr and Mrs S say the settlement isnt 
enough for them to get the reinstatement works done based on the quote theyve provided. 
And having looked at the items which fall under Lloyds liability I agree that this has left them 
out of pocket.
Ive already explained why I dont think the vanity unit should be included as part of the 
overall settlement. So I wont require Lloyds to meet this particular cost. But I do think Lloyds 
needs to meet the remaining reasonable costs of this quote in line with the policy terms, as 
opposed to paying what it wouldve cost its own contractors to do the work. This means the 
total amount Lloyds must pay on this quote would increase to £2,075.00.
As part of my complaint review our investigator wrote to both parties to let them know my 
thoughts on the cash settlement and to provide both parties with an opportunity to comment 
on this. Lloyds responded and has agreed to pay the additional money as set out above.          
Mr and Mrs S were disappointed I hadnt included the vanity unit but accepted the uplift on 
the remainder of the quote.
So as part of my final decision I will require Lloyds to pay this additional money to                
Mr and Mrs S.
Compensation
Ive considered the delays which can be associated with claims of this nature as both parties 
determine the best way to proceed with the claim. Ive also taken into account there was a 
delay attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic which neither part is contesting here. But             
Mr and Mrs S say that the disproportionate nature of Lloyds investigations did cause an 
avoidable delay in moving the claim forward.
Having considered the claim journey, I cant fairly attribute the additional investigations 
carried out by Lloyds as an avoidable delay. I say this because it seems these works were 
arranged in response to Mr and Mrs S concerns over the scope of works, and in order to 
determine exactly what items would be covered under the claim as new evidence came to 
light. I find this reasonable.
I can see there was an occasion where Lloyds didnt respond in a timely manner to              
Mr and Mrs S concerns around a faulty electrical socket. And Lloyds has acknowledged it 
shouldve looked at this sooner. Having considered everything, I think Lloyds offer of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable for this error and its overall service, so I wont be 
requiring it to pay anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs S complaint, 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
Pay an additional £585.41 to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman