DRN-4102489
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) caused a delay in 
making a drawdown payment to him from his pension. He is also complaining that the results 
of a subject access request (SAR) he made were delayed.
What happened
Mr T wrote to Scottish Widows on 20 January 2022 to make a SAR, asking it to provide him 
with all the information it held about him. He made this request as part of another complaint 
which has been dealt with separately. As the SAR element was not included in the 
compensation paid to Mr T in relation to his other complaint, I have covered it here. Mr T 
contacted Scottish Widows to repeat his request on a number of occasions before the 
information was provided to him by email in August 2022, and in paper form in November 
2022.
On 28 October 2022, Mr Ts Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) contacted Scottish Widows 
to request a partial encashment from his pension of £1,300 as a tax free lump sum. The IFA 
was informed during the call that the money would be transferred to Mr Ts account by 7 
November 2022. Scottish Widows also wrote to Mr T confirming the arrangements on 28 
October and subsequently to the IFA on 2 November to say the funds would be transferred 
to Mr Ts account by close of business that same day. Unfortunately, Scottish Widows 
attempted to pay the sum to an old account of Mr Ts that had been closed. The money was 
immediately returned to Scottish Widows, but payment was not made to the correct account 
until after Mr T had contacted Scottish Widows on 11 November to ask about why he had 
not received the payment as advised. The payment was made to Mr Ts correct account on 
14 November. Scottish Widows has provided evidence that the delay in making this payment 
was due to an operational backlog.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr T on 18 November 2022 to confirm that it was treating the 
situation as a complaint. It also explained the circumstances that had led to the mistake 
happening and the actions that it had taken to avoid any recurrence of the problem. These 
actions included removing the old bank details from its records as well as ensuring that the 
timing delay had not resulted in any financial loss to Mr T.
Mr T contacted Scottish Widows again on 16 January 2023 to make a further withdrawal of 
£1,500, including £500 tax free cash. Scottish Widows wrote to him on 18 January to confirm 
the instruction and to inform him that the payment would be made within 5 working days. 
Scottish Widows also contacted Mr Ts IFA to check the account details for the payment. 
Mr T was unhappy with this and spoke to Scottish Widows staff on several occasions to 
chase both his payment and the progress of his complaint. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr T on 23 January 2023 with its final response to his complaint. It 
upheld his complaint, relating to the late provision of the information he had sought in his 
SAR, and for the delay in making the late payment in November 2022. It offered him a 
payment of £204, comprising £200 in relation to the distress and inconvenience he had 
suffered relating to the delay in providing him the information in relation to his SAR, and also 
the delay in making the late payment. It also made him a payment of £5 in interest on the 
late payment, reduced to £4 as this part of the compensation was taxable. Mr T was 
unhappy with this offer and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence and decided that the offer was fair in terms of the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator, so this case has been passed to me to review the 
evidence again and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, but agree with the investigator that the redress 
proposed by Scottish Widows is appropriate in the circumstances.
Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, looking at the issue of the SAR Mr T made in January 2022, Mr T did not receive the 
information he had asked for from Scottish Widows until August 2022, when it was sent by 
email. Mr T had asked for the information to be sent to him recorded delivery, so it seems 
reasonable to me to find that he had requested the information be provided to him in 
physical form. The information was sent to him in physical form in November 2022. 
The right of access of an individual to receive a copy of their personal data is outlined by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I think its a relevant consideration in this case. In 
terms of the time this should take, it states: 
You must comply with a SAR without undue delay and at the latest within one month of 
receiving the request. You can extend the time to respond by a further two months if the 
request is complex or you have received a number of requests from the individual, e.g. other 
types of requests relating to individuals rights.
From this, it is clear to see that Scottish Widows hasnt acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner. Mr T relates that he received a phone call from his IFA in March 2022, after the one 
month period had passed, relaying a query from Scottish Widows as to whether Mr T still 
required the information. 
Consequently, it follows that I find that Scottish Widows was at fault here. 
Looking now at the delays to the payments that Mr T requested from his pension, I will take 
each of these in turn.
I find that the delay to the first payment Mr T requested happened because of a 
miscommunication between Scottish Widows and Mr Ts IFA. In the telephone call between 
these two parties, neither party identified that the details of the bank account into which the 
money was to have been sent were incorrect. Although I think that both the IFA and Scottish 
Widows are at fault here, the payment to the correct account was further delayed by Scottish 
Widows operational backlog, prompting Mr T to contact Scottish Widows. As Scottish 
Widows already had the correct bank details on file, I find that it is fair and reasonable to 
hold it responsible for this further delay. So it was also at fault here.In terms of the second payment request, in January 2023, Mr T was unhappy that Scottish 
Widows contacted his IFA to confirm the payment account details. I find it likely that Scottish 
Widows took this cautious approach because of the issue with the first payment being sent 
to the wrong account. I can appreciate why it took this approach, and I cant see that this 
caused a delay to the payment being made, so I dont find that Scottish Widows has done 
anything wrong in this respect. 
Ill turn now to the issue of what level of compensation might be appropriate in terms of 
redress for the poor service Mr T received from Scottish Widows. It has paid him £200 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience he has suffered, which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. It has also made a payment of £4 net of basic 
rate income tax to compensate him for the late payment of the withdrawal he requested in 
October. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I find that the compensation already paid by Scottish Widows is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Consequently, I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do 
anything else to resolve the complaint beyond the compensation it has already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
However, I shall not be asking Scottish Widows Limited to do anything beyond what it has 
already offered to do for Mr T to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman