The complaint
Miss R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a charge card in 1995.
What happened
Miss R took out a charge card in 1995 through the post. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy was sold by a high street store. But Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the 
underwriter of this policy has taken responsibility for the sale and by extension this 
complaint. So for ease I will refer to Allianz throughout this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. Miss R disagreed with this view and asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Allianz needed to make sure it gave Miss R an option to purchase the PPI. Miss R says that 
it was added without her knowledge and the PPI wasnt mentioned or explained. Ive been 
provided with a copy of the application form Miss R signed at the time. There is a section on 
the form about the PPI.
Miss R has ticked the form to say she wanted the PPI. I accept that Miss R has given me her 
honest and best recollection of the sale. I have also thought that this sale happened over two 
decades ago and its not always easy to remember exact details of this type of sale after all 
this time. Miss R says there was no option to actively decline the PPI but I think she 
completed this form in her own time and at her own pace and on balance I think she would 
have likely known that she could have left this part of the form blank if she didnt want it. And 
I can see she has signed and dated the form. I also think its likely she would have read the 
form before she signed it. The words in this section we strongly recommend were a general 
recommendation and not tailored to Miss Rs particular needs. I also think the PPI charges 
would appear on her monthly charge card statements, so she could have questioned the PPI 
if she was unsure about it. I havent seen evidence she has done so.
DRN-1041299On balance, I think its more likely Miss R chose the PPI knowing she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it  even if she doesnt remember that now so many years later.
I think the PPI was taken out through the post  so I dont think she spoke to anyone about 
it. Overall, I dont think Allianz advised Miss R to buy the PPI. That meant Allianz didnt need 
to make sure it was right for her. But it still needed to give Miss R clear enough information 
so that she could decide for herself regardless of whether she wanted the PPI.
Miss R says she didnt understand the product and it wasnt explained to her but looking at 
the paperwork, I think she probably understood that she was protecting her card repayments 
against accident, sickness or if she lost her job. Its possible that the information Allianz gave 
to Miss R wasnt as clear as it could have been. But looking at everything, I dont think 
Miss R would have done anything differently. I still think she would have taken out the policy. 
I say this because Miss R was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main limitations or exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim such as unusual employment 
circumstances or a pre-existing medical condition.
Miss Rs told us that she would have had sick pay of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. She also says she had some savings she could have used and family to 
help her if she fell into difficulty. But this policy would have paid out in addition to and for 
longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. Any savings could have been used to pay 
necessary expenses. Although I appreciate family would have wanted to help, this type of 
help cant always be guaranteed in the longer term or as and when it was needed. So I think 
the PPI could have been useful if she lost her job or couldnt work. I also think it was 
affordable and theres nothing which makes me think Miss R had a particular need to keep 
her costs down.
Ive thought about everything Miss R has told me including what she has said about other 
lenders paying out in the same circumstances but this hasnt changed my decision. The sale 
happened a long time ago and its understandable if Miss R cant remember everything 
about it now. But I think she chose the insurance - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And the facts relevant in one case dont necessarily apply to other cases. So even if 
Miss R had better or clearer information, I still think the PPI was useful for her if something 
went wrong - so I dont think shed have been put off buying it and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman