DRN-4322708
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to repair his boiler in 
accordance with the terms of his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had had home emergency policies with British Gas for a number of years. The policy to
which this complaint relates was renewed in October 2022 and included cover for Mr Ks
boiler.
On a visit to Mr Ks home on 8 November 2022, a British Gas engineer identified a leak in
the boilers heat exchanger but said the heat exchanger was inaccessible.
What happened next is disputed. British Gas says it advised Mr K he had two options. Either
(i) British Gas could repair his boiler, which would involve taking it out of its housing (which is
what made it inaccessible), changing the part and returning it to the housing or (ii) Mr K
could buy a new boiler. British Gas says Mr K turned down the repair option and chose to
buy a new boiler.
Mr K says British Gas didnt offer to repair his boiler. He says the engineer in consultation
with her manager decided not to carry out the repair and advised him to buy a new boiler
and install it in a different place.
When Mr K complained to British Gas about its failure to repair his boiler, it said the boiler
should never have been on cover in the first place because it was inaccessible. British Gas
has since told us its been saying Mr K needed a new boiler since 2015.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, British Gas said it would pay him the cost of replacing the
heat exchanger, as this was the repair it wouldve carried out if it couldve gained access.
And British Gas said it would refund Mr K his monthly policy premiums for October and 
November 2022 (I understand his policy was cancelled in early December 2022). British Gas
has since paid Mr K £750 and £107.60 for each of these things.
Unhappy with British Gas response, Mr K brought his complaint to us. He says his new
boiler, which he got from a different supplier, cost him over £3,500. Mr K would like
additional compensation of £1,500 from British Gas for not repairing his boiler.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ks complaint didnt uphold it. He thought British Gas had
been reasonable in refunding the policy premiums and in paying Mr K the cost it wouldve
incurred in fixing the boiler  even though, in our investigators view, Mr K had turned down
its repair offer.
Mr K disagreed. He maintained British Gas didnt offer to repair his boiler and he sent us the
engineers visit report to back up what he said. So Mr Ks complaint came to me to decide. 
In my provisional decision of 19 July 2023, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. Mr K has given us his thoughts on my provisional decision, including that hes 
unhappy with the amount of compensation I said I intended to award him. British Gas has 
accepted my provisional decision. So Mr Ks complaint has now come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont think its likely British Gas clearly explained to Mr K he could have his boiler 
repaired. In that decision, I said:
British Gas has shown us its job history for Mr Ks policies since 2015. In the notes following
her visit on 8 November 2022, the British Gas engineer said: CODE3 heat exchanger
leaking/fitted parts/no access to replace heat exchanger/new boiler req.
British Gas subsequently asked the manager with whom the engineer spoke on the day she
visited Mr Ks home for his recollection of events. He said:
[The engineer] spoke to myself while on this job and run it by me. The access to the boiler is
poor and should never have been on contract however because it has been I said we would
have to do the job, speaking to another CDM we decided the best course of action would be
to remove the boiler change the parts and then put it back. Being a 2 man job.
I informed [the engineer] of this while she was at the property and said she may also want to
advise the customer that due to the age it may be worth getting a new boiler and if they
decide to do this look at moving the boiler to a better position.
[The engineer] rung me back after speaking with the customer and advised he was going
down the new boiler route, she explained to me she wanted my thought in case it come back
in after the quote of a new boiler or if she received a complaint for the time she had spent
there trying to fix it. She had also put new boiler req on her job report as when leaving
there this was the route the customer was taking.
British Gas has also shown us screenshots of text messages from the managers mobile
phone. There are photos of the boiler, a comment from the engineer that the heat exchanger
is leaking and a question about how she could get the heat exchanger out to replace it. The
manager texted back saying it looked like it could only be done if there was space to get the
boiler off the wall. British Gas says its confident its engineer wouldve been speaking with  
Mr K while on site and explaining British Gas was proposing to attempt a repair.
Mr Ks recollection of what happened is different. In a letter of complaint to British Gas dated
18 November 2022  so just 10 days after the engineers visit  Mr K said:
The engineer in consultation with her manager decided not to carry out the repair and
advised us to buy a new boiler from British Gas and to install in a different location
In the same letter, Mr K goes on to say hes had to buy a new boiler at a cost of £3,500 from
another supplier and says this couldve been avoided if the Engineer, obliged under
contract, repair the boiler by, if necessary, fully dismantle it and reinstalled it.
Mr K has also sent us the visit report the engineer left with him on 8 November. In the
comments section, the engineers handwritten notes say:Boiler full of water. Replaced parts. Still non-operational. Heat exchanger leaking  unable
to repair due to boiler position/poor access. New boiler req.
I cant know for sure what British Gas did or didnt say to Mr K about a boiler repair. And Im
conscious people can often come away from meetings with entirely different recollections of
what happened  and with the recollections on all sides honestly held. But, since I wasnt
there, what I must do is look at all the available evidence and decide, on the balance of
probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened.
I dont doubt there was a conversation between the British Gas engineer and her manager
about a possible repair to the boiler. What Im more doubtful about is how effectively (if at all)
the engineer communicated the repair option to Mr K. Mr K says she didnt. And only 10
days after the visit, Mr K asked British Gas why his boiler couldnt be removed to have the
part replaced. If Mr K had known repair was an option, I query why he wouldve
subsequently asked British Gas this question.
In addition to this, none of the paperwork from around the time refers to a repair option 
quite the reverse, it says no access to replace heat exchanger in the job history and
unable to repair in the visit report.
All of this leads me to the provisional conclusion that its more likely than not British Gas
didnt make it clear to Mr K it could repair his boiler. But this is my provisional finding. I must
emphasise that, if I get any further arguments or information that shed a different light on
what happened, I will look at this issue again and my findings may change.
Mr K says his new boiler cost him around £3,500. And he says he couldve avoided this
expense if British Gas had repaired his boiler. So he would like British Gas to meet him
almost half way and pay him additional compensation of £1,500.
British Gas has refunded Mr K his policy premiums for October and November 2022 (and the
policy was cancelled the following month). Since British Gas didnt fulfil its contract, I think
that was fair and reasonable. British Gas has also paid Mr K £750, which it says is what it
wouldve cost to replace the heat exchanger. Again, and for the same reason, I think thats
fair and reasonable.
What I dont think would be fair and reasonable, based on what Ive seen so far, is to award
Mr K compensation to help cover the cost of his new boiler, as Ill explain. Mr Ks home
emergency insurance policy gave him cover for a replacement boiler. But it only applied if his
boiler was (i) less than seven years old or (ii) between seven and 10 years old, installed 
byBritish Gas and continuously covered by British Gas under either a warranty or an 
insurance product.
From what Mr K and British Gas say, Mr Ks boiler was more than 10 years old. That means
Mr K wasnt entitled to a replacement boiler under his policy. And, from the job history British
Gas has shown us, and as Ive already mentioned, it seems it recorded Mr Ks boiler as
needing to be replaced over the previous seven years; that is, since 2015. So, even if British
Gas had repaired Mr Ks boiler in November 2022, I think its unlikely it wouldve kept going
for much longer before hed have had to face the cost of replacing it. Thats why I dont think
it would be fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to make a contribution of £1,500 to this
cost.
I do, however, think British Gass failure to give Mr K a clear option to have his boiler
repaired has caused him distress and inconvenience, both of which are clear from Mr Ks
complaint letter to British Gas, sent 10 days after the home visit. And it seems Mr K had to
apply substantial funds to get a replacement boiler quickly, especially given it was a coldtime of year when all of this happened. So, as long as I get no further arguments or
information that shed new light on what happened here and cause me to change my
findings, I intend to award Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience British Gass failings
have caused him.
As Ive mentioned, Mr K isnt happy about the amount of compensation Ive said I intend to 
award him. But he hasnt given me any new evidence to support his view. Ive seen nothing 
to make me think the conclusions I reached about compensation for Mr K in my provisional 
decision were unfair or unreasonable and Mr Ks comments dont change my view on it.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision (which now form part of this final decision), 
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, British Gas Insurance Limited 
must pay simple interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman