DRN-4307329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
handled their motor insurance claim.
Mrs M is the policyholder and Mr M is a named driver on the policy. Most of the 
communication regarding the claim and complaint has been from Mr M. So, Ill refer mainly 
to him in my decision.
LV is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of its agents. As LV has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my 
decision, any reference to LV includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their motor insurance policy with LV after 
their vehicle was damaged in an accident.
LV arranged for its recommended repairer to carry out repairs to the vehicle, and it was 
returned to Mr M in April 2022. However, there were several issues with the quality of the 
repairs. The vehicle was returned to the garage for rectification work on more than one 
occasion.
Mr M complained to LV who responded in late August 2022. It said Mr Ms car had recently 
gone back to the garage and an inspection had been arranged to check the recent repairs 
and the paintwork. 
It apologised for the inconvenience caused by repairs not being carried out to an acceptable 
standard. It paid him £200 for inconvenience and £150 to compensate him for the calls hed 
made and the fuel hed used travelling to the garage. 
When the vehicle was returned to Mr M in October 2022, he found that there were still some 
issues. He told LV the headlights werent working as they should, and the washer jets didnt 
work. Mr M told LV he didnt want his vehicle to go back to its recommended repairer. He 
took it to a manufacturers main dealer. 
LV re-opened Mr Ms complaint and sent him a follow up response. It said its engineer, who 
had signed off his car in September, had said that the correct headlights had been fitted. The 
manufacturers dealer had advised that the vehicle was not fitted with AFL (Advanced 
forward lighting), so it wouldnt move 15 degrees as Mr M had claimed. The engineer also 
said the washer was working. 
LV said it wouldnt be arranging a further inspection as it was satisfied the headlamp was the 
correct specification and there were no issues with the hose. LV acknowledged that Mr M 
was disappointed that its recommended repairer had contacted the manufacturers dealer. 
But it said it was usual for authorised costs of further rectification work to be passed back to 
the original repairer to settle. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. He said LV had 
refused to carry out further repairs as it didnt believe his car should have the advanced 
lighting system. He said the wrong headlight and / or modules had been fitted by LVs 
recommended repairer.
LV told us Mr M had been in subsequent communication with its engineer and the manager 
at its recommended repairer. It said the manufacturers dealer had originally advised LV that 
Mr Ms vehicle did not have AFL lights fitted. However, the engineer and recommended 
repairer had since established this information was incorrect. LV said it had authorised for 
the headlight modules in both headlights to be changed at a cost of £1,733 but it wasnt 
guaranteed to fix the issue.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
£350 LV had paid them was fair compensation for the matters it was responsible for. He 
didnt think LV could be held responsible for ongoing issues with the manufacturers dealer 
as it wasnt an agent of LV.
Mr M asked for the complaint to be escalated. He said it had been confirmed that his vehicle 
should have the lighting system it was disputing and provided evidence from the 
manufacturers dealer to support this. He said the manufacturers dealer had admitted 
previously giving false information to LV and its recommended repairer and they were in 
communication to resolve things. He said he hadnt been treated in a professional manner 
by LV and the recommended repairer. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
LV says there was a delay in repairs initially being carried out because parts were 
unavailable. Its also acknowledged issues with repairs carried out by its recommended 
repairer which meant that the car needed to be returned twice for further work. 
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs M who were also inconvenienced by having 
to contact LV and go back and forth to the garage. However, I think the £350 compensation 
LV paid them in response to their complaint was reasonable. 
The main outstanding issue since the car was returned to Mr and Mrs M in October 2022, 
was the headlights. Mr M said the headlights on his vehicle were supposed to turn up to 15 
degrees with steering, but since the accident this no longer worked. 
I can see that LV arranged for Mr M to have a hire car while his vehicle was with the 
manufacturers dealer. According to LVs notes its recommended repairer contacted the 
manufacturers dealer and was told that Mr Ms model of car never had swivel lights and 
there was no fault or damage.
I appreciate Mr M was unhappy that LVs recommended repairer contacted the 
manufacturers dealer without his permission. However, the recommended repairer would be 
responsible for settling the costs of any rectification works carried out by the manufacturers 
dealer. So, I think it was reasonable it would want to understand what further repairs might 
be required.I understand that the manufacturers dealer has since acknowledged giving LVs 
recommended repairer the wrong information about the headlights at the time. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for LV to have relied on the information it was given. 
Following further contact between Mr M, LVs engineer and the recommended repairer, LV 
has accepted that Mr Ms vehicle did have AFL headlights. The recommended repairer 
authorised for the headlight modules in both headlights to be changed as the manufacturers 
dealer suggested this might fix the issue. Mrs M told us the car was booked in with the 
manufacturers dealer in July 2023 and Mr M says it went back into the dealer in August 
2023. 
Its unclear if the issue with the headlights has been resolved. However, I think LV has taken 
reasonable steps to try to put things right for Mr and Mrs M. The recommended repairer says 
it authorised costs of £1,733 for the manufacturers dealer to change the headlight modules, 
even though they couldnt guarantee it would fix the issue.
I appreciate this situation has been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M and its gone on for a long 
time. However, I cant hold LV responsible for the actions of the manufacturers dealer as 
this isnt one of its agents. I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to have relied on the 
information from the manufacturers dealer who is a specialist in Mr and Mrs Ms make of 
vehicle. Once it was established that this information was wrong, LV gave approval for works 
to be carried out to try to rectify the issue. The availability of parts and the manufacturers 
dealers capacity to carry out repairs were beyond LVs control. From what Ive been told, the 
vehicle was safe and legal to drive. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. But I think the £350 LV has 
already paid them sufficiently recognises the distress and inconvenience its responsible for. 
So, I dont require it to pay any further compensation in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman