DRN-2740147
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend to 
him.  
What happened
 Mr S had four loans from Mr Lender between January 2019 and February 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 5 Jan 2019 £200 3m £132.26 12 Apr 201913 Apr 2019
1 deferral
2 14 Apr 2019 £200 6m £74.93 27 Sep 201925 Oct 2019
Repayment plan
3 26 Oct 2019 £200 6m £76.53 9 Apr 2020 27 Feb 2020
4 27 Feb 2020 £600 12m £116.69 14 Jan 202127 Sep 2020
Repayment plan
Mr S says that if Mr Lender had checked his credit file it would have seen he had a poor 
credit score with a number of defaults. He says the fact that he took out the loans in quick 
succession should have indicated to Mr Lender that they were unaffordable. He adds that he 
was using one loan to repay another and this debt spiral significantly affected his mental 
health. Mr S says Mr Lender did not uphold his complaint but offered him a £25 voucher and 
to remove any adverse information from his credit file. He did not accept this offer.
Mr Lender says it conducted an employment check and a credit check and asked Mr S about 
his income and outgoings. It says its checks did not indicate Mr S was struggling financially 
and that the repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be partly upheld. He considered Mr 
Lender would have seen Mr S had issues repaying loan 2 and should not have approved 
further loans with no break in lending. He added that Mr S had developed a reliance on 
short-term borrowing. Our adjudicator said Mr Lender should refund interest charged on 
loans 3 and 4 (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any negative information about those 
loans from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr Lender responded to say its checks showed Mr Ss short-term issues had been resolved 
when he applied for loan 3 and further questioning ensured his financial circumstances were 
good. It added that it did not find that a third loan should be classed as rapid re-lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been approved for loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may indicate that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 1 and 2As these were Mr Ss first loans with Mr Lender and the repayments were a maximum of 5% 
of his income, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough. There was 
nothing in the available information to indicate Mr S was in financial difficulties, so I cant 
conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loans 1 or 2.
Loan 3
When Mr S applied for loan 3, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it fully understood 
his financial circumstances before approving the application., I say that because:
This was Mr Ss third loan application and hed been in debt to Mr Lender for almost 
ten months;
This was the second time Mr S had applied for a new loan within a day of repaying a 
previous one;
Mr S had needed to agree a repayment plan to repay loan 2;
The loan amounts were not decreasing;
Mr S continued to declare repayments on other short-term credit of over £1,000.
I acknowledge Mr Lender asked Mr S about the reasons for the financial difficulties during 
loan 2 and was satisfied it was a short-term issue, but I consider it should have verified his 
financial circumstances at this stage.
Ive looked into what Mr Lender is likely to have found had it carried out better checks for 
loan 3 and I can see that Mr S had active loans with at least eight high-cost lenders when he 
applied for loan 3. Indeed, he paid over £2,000 in repayments in the week following receipt 
of the third Mr Lender loan. Given Mr S had declared that his monthly expenditure on credit 
was just over £1,000, I find it likely that Mr Lender would have found further borrowing was 
unaffordable to him had it carried out proportionate checks. Indeed, it was evident that Mr S 
had become dependent on short-term borrowing and further lending was irresponsible.
Loan 4
Mr Ss circumstances were largely unchanged when he applied for loan 4 and he was still in 
debt to multiple short-term lenders. So I further find that Mr Lender should not have 
approved loan 4.
In summary, although I accept Mr Lender asked further questions when Mr S applied for 
loan 3, I dont consider those checks went far enough given his repayment history. If Mr 
Lender had carried out proportionate checks and had fully understood Mr Ss financial 
circumstances, I find it likely it would have found loans 3 and 4 were unaffordable to him 
and, therefore, it was irresponsible to have approved them.
So Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 3 and 4, and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 3 and 4;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mr S the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans 3 
and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman