DRN-3710061
The complaint
Mr C complains that Contis Financial Services Limited failed to refund transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr C attempted to withdraw cash from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM), his card was 
retained in the ATM and he explained he saw that there was glue in the card slot. Mr C 
couldnt speak with the ATM owner as they werent open at that point and after failing to get 
his card back, he left the machine to return home and call Contis about the problem. 
Soon after leaving the ATM, unrecognised transactions took place a short distance away at 
another ATM and several withdrawals were made. In total, £250 was withdrawn from the 
ATM after a balance enquiry was made.
The card was blocked by Contis, and they recorded that a further (unsuccessful) attempt 
was made to use it the following day. Mr C was asked about the transaction and he told 
Contis that he kept his Personal Identification Number (PIN) in his wallet, but that hadnt 
been lost. Mr C didnt think that anyone was near him when he used the ATM.
Contis declined to refund Mr C and referred to their terms and conditions about card 
security. Mr C then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
information about the issue.
Mr C repeated his story and thought that there may have been a camera on the ATM which 
is how his PIN was captured. Contis supplied some details about the transactions and they 
believed it cast doubt on the timings of the disputed transactions and whether anyone else 
could have been involved. Contis believed that Mr C was still in breach of his terms and they 
shouldnt be held liable as they had a different status to a bank. Contis didnt make any 
enquiries with the owners of the ATM and believed this was a matter for the police to deal 
with.
After considering the evidence, Mr Cs complaint was upheld and our investigator 
recommended they make a refund for the money lost at the ATM, add interest and make a 
£100 payment for the impact on Mr C by Contiss approach to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). The basic position is that Contis can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments if 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Contis can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr C authorised the 
transactions, but Contis cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless Contis can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Cs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for some of the disputed 
transactions. It shows the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to 
Mr C. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether 
theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr C responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Id note here that Contis havent provided authentication evidence for all the disputed 
transactions, but the issue here is related to whether it was Mr C who was responsible for 
authorising them or not. I dont think the missing authentication data affects the complaint.
Mr Cs version of events is that he tried to use an ATM, it retained his card and he noticed it 
had been tampered with. The bank at the ATM was closed at the time so Mr C was unable to 
ask them to deal with the problem. He eventually stepped away from the ATM without his 
card and returned home before calling Contis. Contis declined this claim almost immediately 
and told Mr C it was a police matter.
The PSRs require the card user to keep their card details and security information (PIN) 
secure and use it in accordance with the terms of their account. It appears that Contiss first 
response was to deny Mr C a refund based on a breach of their terms concerning card 
security. 
Here Contis believe that because Mr C told them he wrote the PIN down and kept in his 
wallet, thats a breach of their terms. I dont think thats a fair interpretation of what 
happened. Mr Cs testimony is that he didnt lose the PIN from his wallet, but that he used 
his card in a damaged machine and input his PIN into it  after which he couldnt retrieve his 
card. Theres no evidence that indicates he lost the PIN or had it taken from him with his 
card. Mr C believes a camera may have recorded his PIN. So, I dont think that Contis can 
rely on their terms here to deny Mr C a refund because the evidence shows he didnt lose 
the PIN that he had written down.
Contis later provided an assessment of the timings of the withdrawals and the location of the 
ATMs and didnt think they were realistically able to be carried out by an unknown third 
party. Ive considered those timings and the locations involved in this and I think its plausible 
that third parties could well have been involved in the theft of Mr Cs card and carried them 
out at the different nearby locations.  
Contiss decision not to approach the operator of the ATM prevented a thorough 
investigation into what happened. I dont think that Contis can rely on their terms to deny him 
a refund and they havent been able to show what happened at the ATM. Mr Cs testimony 
has been consistent throughout, so I dont think its fair to hold him liable for the disputed 
transactions. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Mr C wasnt responsible for making the 
withdrawals hes disputed and Contis should now refund them to him, adding simple interest 
at 8% from the date of the loss till the date theyre repaid. In addition to the substantive 
repayment, I think that the unnecessary stress they caused Mr C because of how they 
handled this complaint warrants a payment of £100.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Contis Financial Services Limited and 
theyre instructed to settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman