DRN-1917521
The complaint
Ms Y is unhappy about the way Unum Limited (Unum) has dealt with her claim.
What happened
Ms Y has a group income protection policy through her employer, underwritten by Unum 
which would pay a benefit if Ms Y was unable to work due to illness or injury, after a deferred 
(waiting period) of 26 weeks. 
Ms Y worked as an executive manager and became absent from work in October 2018. She 
returned to work on a part time basis in February 2019 and made a claim. The deferred 
period ended at the end of March 2019.
Unum reviewed the claim and the medical evidence and declined the claim as it said Ms Y 
didnt meet the definition of incapacity. It said Ms Ys stress was work related and she wasnt 
affected outside of work. Ms Y provided further evidence which showed her restrictions 
werent just in the workplace. Unum reviewed this evidence and accepted Ms Y was affected 
both in and out of work but maintained the decline as she had made an improvement by 
January 2019 and so wasnt incapacitated for the duration of the deferred period. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said the evidence showed Ms Y did meet the 
criteria for being incapacitated but she didnt think Ms Y met the definition throughout the 
deferred period as she had started a phased return to work within the deferred period. In 
addition, she had returned to full working hours by April 2019. The policy provided cover for 
a phased return to work but as Unum had paid Ms Y a full months benefit as a gesture of 
goodwill, she didnt think it needed to take any further action. 
Ms Y responded to say she wasnt happy that Unum had declined her claim and in 
summary, has made the following comments:
She has had to take another extended period of sick leave from November 2019 and  
is still working on a part time basis, as part of a phased return.
Her further period of absence should have been linked to her first absence.
She didnt return to full duties until July 2019.  
The policy treats anybody as absent if theyre not fulfilling their full material duties 
and hours. As Ms Y didnt recommence her full hours or duties until after the end of 
the deferred period, the claim should have been accepted on a liability basis by 
Unum. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Ys complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
the policy terms 
Incapacity is defined as follows:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are unable, by reason of their illness 
or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation.
If Ms Y was unable to work due to illness or injury, she would need to wait for a period of 26 
weeks, the deferred period. 
The deferred period can be: continuous absence or separate period of absence of at least 
2 weeks (from the same or related causes). The deferred period must be completed within a 
time span of twice the period  eg a member would complete a 26 weeks deferred period if 
they had 26 weeks of absence within 52 weeks.
Benefits would stop due to a number of events, such as leaving employment or when Ms Y 
returned to work or no longer met the definition of incapacity.
The policy also says a proportionate benefit will be paid from the end of the deferred period, 
if: illness or injury prevents a member from working in their own role for the normal number 
of hours but they work part time or on restricted duties or in a lower paid role.
In relation to further absence due to incapacity, the policy says: We will treat the absence as 
an extension of the original claim if benefit payments end because the member is no longer 
incapacitated but becomes ill again within a year, and meets the definition of incapacity. We 
call this a linked claim.
Ill now set out the key medical evidence reviewed and relied on by Unum to decline the 
claim. 
the medical evidence
September 2018  Ms Y met with her GP twice as she was exhausted and had 
slowed down, she was overwhelmed with work and had poor sleep. She was taking 
Amitriptyline which had been increased from 10 mg to 20 mg.
September 2018  Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) report said Ms Y had 
moderate anxiety and moderately severe depression and CBT was the most 
appropriate response. 
October 2018  GP notes show anxiety with depression, low mood, poor sleep and 
that Ms Y was trialling Sertraline and Zopiclone. On 29 October the GP wrote Ms Y 
was much improved. But she went away and reported a dip in mood and continuing 
fatigue. 
November 2018  Ms Y saw her GP again and was tearful. Suggested Mirtazapine, 
to start CBT and continue counselling.
November 2018  Ms Y met with a consultant occupational physician who set out a 
return to work plan.  He said Ms Y should gradually increase her working day over the course of four to eight weeks, to be on a full eight-hour day. He anticipated she 
would be much better and able to cope with greater resilience by Easter 2019. 
December 2019  further GP consultation where Ms Y reported she had visited the 
office and had felt dreadful, with a sensation of heaviness. She had all positive 
relationships in the work place but became symptomatic.
January 2019  Ms Y saw the consultant occupational physician again who said she 
appeared much better than when they last met and Ms Y was functioning at a good 
level outside of work although confidence was still somewhat shaky at work. 
March 2019  vocational rehabilitation report sets out Ms Ys goal to return to full 
time hours and duties. Ms Y reported she was getting on well with her counselling 
sessions and felt things were going in the right direction. Ms Y was coping with the 
increase in hours, she felt confident with the technical aspect of her role but felt she 
needed to tackle the people and pressure aspect next. 
April 2019 - a letter from Ms Ys GP confirmed her history had been reviewed and 
she had been significantly unwell with a diagnosis of depression requiring 
psychotherapy and pharmacological intervention, but she was making a gradual and 
sustained recovery. 
April 2019  Ms Ys CBT therapist wrote to confirm that he first saw Ms Y in October 
2018 and she had depressive symptoms, anxiety and insomnia as well as poor 
appetite and poor functionality. During therapy, her mood worsened but recovered 
over time and she completed therapy in January 2019 with positive results. 
Unum reviewed the above evidence and concluded Ms Y didnt meet the terms of the policy 
and maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Ms Y was unhappy about the reasons Unum gave to decline the claim. And says Unums 
chief medical officer (CMO) didnt have access to her full medical history. 
Unum carried out a number of reviews of the medical evidence and found that Ms Y was 
experiencing a depressive illness that resulted in significant restrictions and limitations but 
that her complaints resulted from stress. The file was sent to the CMO for a review who 
concluded that the overall picture was that Ms Y was affected by a number of life events on 
top of a busy and responsible role at work. He said:
This caused symptoms and restrictions and limitations of functions initially. Howeverthe 
overall duration of restrictions and limitations of function was very brief. There is evidence of 
improvementthat by early January 2019 her functions had improved considerably. 
Therefore, the evidence does not support that (Ms Y) was affected by restrictions and 
limitation of function as a result of her symptoms throughout the deferred period.
Unum concluded Ms Y was absent as a result of stressors and had been active as she was 
exercising. But due to the short liability period, it proposed making a payment of one-month 
full benefit as a gesture of good will.  
Having considered all of the above evidence, it is clear that Ms Y was suffering from an 
illness. But to be eligible for payment of a benefit under the policy terms, Ms Y has to 
demonstrate that she was unable to work due to illness and that she was unable to carry out 
her material and substantial duties as a result of that illness. This means her illness has to be of sufficient severity, demonstrated through the medical evidence, and has to last at least 
26 weeks (the deferred period). 
Based on the medical evidence outlined above, its clear that Ms Y was unable to work when 
she first became absent but then reported an improvement by January 2019. This means 
that she didnt meet the definition of incapacity for the full deferred period of 26 weeks.
I note Ms Y gradually returned to work, but her condition had improved within the deferred 
period - and so she wouldnt meet the definition of incapacity for the full 26 weeks, as 
required under the policy terms. For that reason, I cant ask Unum to accept the claim as 
suggested by Ms Y. 
Ms Y is also unhappy with the way Unum has reviewed the claim and some of the comments 
made. I agree that the explanations could have been better. Ms Y did become incapacitated 
for a period of time but it wasnt for the full deferred period. When she returned to work, she 
was still unwell but not to the same degree as when she first became absent. 
In addition, Unum said Ms Y suffered from stress and was exercising and seemed to 
suggest this meant she wasnt incapacitated. But the medical evidence demonstrated she 
was suffering from anxiety and depression. Ms Y was advised to exercise as part of her 
treatment and therapy, so I dont think it would be fair to conclude that just because Ms Y 
was exercising, she wasnt suffering from an illness. 
Ms Y has also said she became absent again and would like Unum to link her claim. 
However, as the initial claim wasnt accepted and wasnt declined unfairly, I cant ask Unum 
to link her claim. Although Ms Y didnt return to full duties immediately and was absent 
again, she wasnt incapacitated throughout the entire deferred period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman