DRN-1695539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which just covered Mr D.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mr and Mrs D ticked and signed a section of their mortgage application form to indicate they 
wanted PPI and had completed a separate application form for it. They also signed an 
interview record which indicated they wanted PPI. On both forms the PPI was presented as 
optional. So, I think Santander made Mr and Mrs D aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I think Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs D would still have bought it. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr D 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments, including what theyve said about their monthly 
mortgage repayment. But these points dont change my conclusion. The evidence they 
provided about this was from 2010 and 2011, which was many years after the PPI was 
cancelled, so I dont think thats relevant.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman