DRN-3711342
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) hasnt reimbursed her after she transferred money 
to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Ms D has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked 
into sending just under €6,500 to a scam investment company. During the scam, Ms D 
made the following payments:
€3,000 on 30 July 2020
€1,150 on 3 August 2020
€88.22 on 10 December 2020
€2,230 on 10 December 2020
The second payment of €1,150 was returned to Ms Ds account on 12 August 2020.
Ms D made all of the scam payments using her mobile banking app so there was no 
interaction with anyone from Revolut. However, she now feels that Revolut shouldve 
identified the payments she was making as suspicious. Ms D believes that had Revolut 
done so, the scam wouldve come to light, and she wouldnt have proceeded to make the 
transfers. 
Revolut didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it had to protect Ms D from 
the scam. It said the transactions hadnt raised any suspicions as the scam activity didnt 
look out of character or unusual when compared to her usual account activity. Revolut said 
it had contacted the receiving bank when Ms D reported the scam but unfortunately, as this 
was many months after the transfers had been completed, no funds remained in these 
accounts. 
Ms D disagreed with what Revolut said and so she brought her complaint to this service 
and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with Revolut that the scam 
transactions were in-line with Ms Ds usual spending on the account. And she didnt think 
they shouldve stood out to Revolut as suspicious enough to warrant further questioning 
before they were allowed to leave her account. She also thought Revolut had done all it 
could to recover Ms Ds funds once notified of the scam, but this was some months after 
the transfers had been made, so the funds had already been removed from the receiving 
account prior to Ms D informing Revolut of what had happened. 
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators findings. She reiterated that the transactions 
shouldve stood out to Revolut. And as an agreement has not been reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Ms D. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation she has found herself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
shes told us happened at the time and Revoluts actions, I dont currently think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to hold Revolut liable for her loss. Ill explain why below.
It is accepted that Ms D authorised the scam payments herself. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Ms D is presumed liable for her loss in the first 
instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Ms D held with Revolut, 
where a valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to follow the 
instructions that Ms D provides. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. An example of this would be payments which are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, 
Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction 
before processing it. 
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfers Ms D made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with her usual account activity. Ive reviewed Ms 
Ds account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and whilst I agree that the 
initial payment is higher than the usual transactions made from this account. I still dont 
think it is remarkable enough for it to have stood out to Revolut. Ill explain why. 
The first payment of €3,000 is a relatively small amount and it isnt inherently suspicious. It is 
quite common for customers to process transactions for this amount on a daily basis. And 
the next payment that leaves the account, some days after the first, is in line with Ms Ds 
usual spending. And so, it wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say that transactions in 
their low thousands were so unusual that they shouldve prompted further action from 
Revolut. And the transactions that followed the first two werent of significant value either 
and both were made months after the initial transactions. So, overall, Im not satisfied that 
the scam payments should have stood out or looked so unusual when compared to Ms Ds 
genuine account activity that they shouldve prompted further checks by Revolut before they 
were allowed to leave her account. 
At the time, Revolut wouldnt have known that Ms D was at making payments to a scam 
company and the payments were low in value and most were of a similar nature to 
payments shed made in the previous months - which indicated a propensity to make 
payments in the low thousands. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we now 
know that these payments were being made as the result of a scam and I dont agree that 
there was anything inherently suspicious about them at the time. It is important for me to stress that firms have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Revolut shouldve 
identified the payments Ms D made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut couldve done more to help Ms D once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. Revolut contacted the receiving banks upon 
notification of the scam. But, unfortunately by this point, all of Ms Ds funds had been 
removed from the receiving accounts.
Finally, I want to stress again that I am very sorry I to hear about what has happened to Ms 
D. But at the same time, I dont currently think her loss was caused by any specific failing 
on behalf of Revolut. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters 
themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms D or Revolut responded to my provisional decision with any additional points. As 
nothing further has been raised, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman