DRN-2437629
The complaint
Mrs Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as 
National Westminster Bank Plc (the business). 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 19 November 2020, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. I said:
On the face the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, Im unable to
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the GCB was suitable for Mrs B. I think its
more likely (than not) she didnt understand the risks associated with the investment.
In this instance I also agree that redress should be based on the five-year fixed rate bond,
and BoE for the remaining six months, but paid net of any taxes.
Im satisfied that Mrs B was prepared to invest £10,000 for a medium term, so in this
instance, a five-and-a-half-year term investment wasnt unsuitable. Theres also no
suggestion that the investment was unaffordable or that it placed an undue burden upon her,
therefore, Im satisfied that she had capacity to invest £10,000.
I appreciate the point the business makes about jurisdiction, and the basis upon which it was
decided. But I should also make clear that the merits consideration is based on a wealth of
factors that are unlikely to have been considered earlier, as part of the jurisdiction
consideration. So, just because Mrs B knew, on the face of it, that there was a risk of no
return, I dont think means she understood about the likelihood of this happening. More
importantly, I understand that the business consented to us considering the merits of this
complaint, and once consent is given it cant be taken back.
As I understand, the FTSE 100 share index linked to the stock market, would have to
perform exceptionally well, in order for Mrs B to do better than the high street rates of return.
And based on what Ive seen, Im unable to safely say that she was made aware of this or
the underlying complexities in this investment.
The FTSE 100 Index would need to reach a certain level before the investment could
generate a growth. And given her age and circumstances at the time I dont agree that the
risk of no return was suitable. Im also mindful that there were charges on the investment
and potential tax payable that was likely to have had an impact, but this hasnt influenced my
conclusion.
 I note that by way of example  in terms of what she might get back at the lower end of the
returns, the business confirmed that the FTSE 100 Index would still have to grow by at least
4% before shed get back £11,500. I dont think Mrs B appreciated the likelihood (or
unlikelihood) of this happening. I note that unlike some capital-protected structured products
Mrs B didnt even have a minimum guaranteed return, so stood to gain nothing at all.
I appreciate that given the best-case scenario, an investment of £10,000 was likely to return
£15,000 return  capped at 50% maximum return. But the FTSE would have to perform
exceptionally well for this to happen, which although isnt impossible, was very unlikely.
So, if advised correctly, I dont think Mrs B given her financial circumstances, aims and
objectives, wouldve chosen to invest in the GCB. In other words, I dont think she wouldve
chosen to take, what effectively some might see as a gamble (or a chance) to achieve a
50% maximum return at the (real) risk of no return at all.
I note Mrs B was assessed as a cautious investor. Given her financial circumstances Im
unable to say that this was unreasonable. I note it was recorded:
"I understand the relationship that exists between risk and reward. I would like to achieve a
greater longer-term return than an interest paying account. I am therefore prepared to accept
the risk of losing some of my money at any stage during the term of the investment by
investing in a fund that invests in a wide range of assets, including shares and which follows
a relatively cautious approach to risk but offers no guarantees; or tie up my money in a fixed
term product that aims to offer a minimum amount at a set point in time".
This would suggest that Mrs B was unlikely to be the sort of person, that would take a
chance of achieving a high return, at the risk of getting nothing at all, even if her capital was
protected. So, I think its unlikely Mrs B wanted her money declining (in real terms) by putting
it into a product that risked no returns, after a lengthy period of investment. Even if Mrs B 
was in a financial position such that she could afford not to get any returns on
this portion of the capital  which I dont think she was  it still doesnt mean the
recommendation was suitable for her.
I note in its response dated 22 November 2019, the business said:
Fixed Rate Bonds are deposit based accounts and it was for this reason they
were discounted by the adviser. Having reviewed the evidence I can confirm other
alternatives were discussed with you however these were also discounted as they were not
in line with your objectives.
Despite what the business says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the fixed rate bond 
which was available to the business at the time  was discussed. Given Mrs Bs financial
circumstances, Im not persuaded that the adviser ought to have discounted it before
discussing it with her, denying her the opportunity to make up her own mind.
Its not always clear what a consumer wouldve done had they been advised correctly. But in
this instance, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I
think its more likely (than not) Mrs B wouldve chosen to invest in the fixed rate bond, if
shed been able to make an informed decision. Therefore, in this case I think redress should
be based on the five-year fixed rate bond available in July 2004 using the interest provided
by Moneyfacts, and the BoE base rate for the remining six months.
So, by way of redress for the first five years of the GCB, I require The Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc to pay Mrs B redress, of D + E, where:
 A = the original investment of £10,000 in the Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB);
 B = interest at the rate of 5.2% (gross) available for a five-year fixed rate bond at the time.
 C = the actual value of the GCB at the date it matured;
 D = A + B  C;
 E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond matured to 
the date of settlement.For the remaining six months of the GCB, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to
compare it to the value to the BoE base rate at the time, and if theres any loss add 8%
simple interest as noted above.
If The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc considers that it should deduct income tax from the
interest calculated in B above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.
Mrs B may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances
permit her to do so, unless the tax deduction certificate wouldnt be applicable.
The CMC responded but made no further points. 
The business also responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In short, it said:
It maintains that the advice was suitable. 
Mrs B was aware she was investing in a product with no guarantee and was under 
no obligation to accept the advice. 
The suitability letter confirms that she understood the risk involved. She didnt want to 
invest directly in the stockmarket but wanted capital security with potential for growth.  
Her attitude to risk was defined as I am therefore prepared to accept the risk of 
losing some of my money at any stage during the term of the investment by investing 
in a fund that invests in a wide range of assets, including shares and which follows a 
relatively cautious approach to risk but offers no guarantees
It doesnt agree that Mrs B wasnt the sort of person that wasnt willing to take a risk 
of achieving a high return at the risk of nothing at all. 
The suitability letter summarised the advice given, so on balance  the above 
explanation of attitude to risk (including the alternative of investing in a fixed term 
product)  was considered in its entirety during the advice and Mrs Bs decision to 
accept the advice to take an investment linked to the stockmarket was made 
following the discussions. 
If Mrs B disagrees with the suitability letter it would suggest that she had cause for 
complaint following the advice. 
Our service  which had sight of the advice documentation  discounted time bar on 
the basis of the merits complaint. Our Services reasoning for there being no cause 
for concern was effectively the same for finding the bond was suitable. 
Whether a discussion around a savings product over an investment took place is 
moot. 
Not making a complaint after the maturity must mean that Mrs B understood the risk 
of no return and that it was acceptable to her 10 years ago. 
The complaint relates to whether (or not) the advice was suitable, not whether there 
were more lucrative products available on the market. So, any redress should be 
based on the standard no-risk benchmark.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
I dont consider that any material new points have been raised, and the key points remain 
the same, and have been considered by me in my provisional decision. In other words, Im 
satisfied that Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. As I said in my provisional decision, just because Mrs B knew, on the face of it, that there 
was a risk of no return, I dont think means she understood about the likelihood of this 
happening. More importantly, the business consented to us considering the merits of this 
complaint, and once consent is given it cant be taken back.
Im not suggesting that Mrs B didnt know that she could get a nil return. I just dont think she 
appreciated the risk (or likelihood) of it, and if she did, I think she was unlikely to follow the 
recommendation. This was a product in which she risked getting no return on her money 
after five-and-a-half-years and something which could  depending on inflation  result in her 
money falling (substantially) in value in real terms, which I dont think she appreciated. 
Despite what the business says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the fixed rate bond  
which was available to the business at the time  was discussed and that Mrs B was given a 
fair comparison of the potential/likely returns of the two types of products. In other words, I 
dont believe Mrs B was able to make a fully informed decision as to whether she wanted to 
invest in the GCB. 
I also appreciate the point the business makes about what Mrs B wouldve done instead. As 
I said in my provisional decision, its not always clear what a consumer wouldve done had 
they been advised correctly. But in this instance, on the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what the business says, I think its more likely (than not) Mrs B wouldve 
chosen to invest in the fixed rate bond  offering a guaranteed return  if shed been able to 
make an informed decision. My decision isnt based on hindsight because the fixed rate 
bond outperformed the GCB.  
Therefore, in this case I think redress should be based on the five-year fixed rate bond 
available to the business in July 2004 using the interest provided by Moneyfacts, for the first 
five years, and the BoE base rate for the remining six months.
Im satisfied that Mrs B was prepared to invest £10,000 for a medium term, so in this
instance, a five-and-a-half-year term investment wasnt unsuitable. Theres also no
suggestion that the investment was unaffordable or that it placed an undue burden upon her,
therefore, Im satisfied that she had capacity to invest £10,000.
So, in my opinion, given Mrs Bs financial circumstances, aims and objectives, it would 
therefore be unfair to use the BoE base rate for the entire investment period, as this doesnt 
reflect the higher rates usually available via fixed-rate bonds for medium-term savers.
Putting things right
So, by way of redress for the first five years of the Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB), I require 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs B redress, of D + E, where:
A = the original investment of £10,000 in the GCB;
B = interest at the rate of 5.2% (gross) available for a five-year fixed rate bond at the 
time;
C = the actual value of the GCB at the date it matured;
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.
For the remaining six months of the GCB, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to
compare it to the value to the BoE base rate at the time, and if theres any loss add 8%
simple interest as noted above.If The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc considers that it should deduct income tax from the
interest calculated in B above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.
Mrs B may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances
permit her to do so, unless the tax deduction certificate wouldnt be applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should calculate redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman