DRN-3865305
The complaint
A charity which Ill call R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated them unfairly by not
closing their bank account as requested.
The complaint is brought on Rs behalf by one of their trustees, Mr K.
What happened
R told us:
In December 2021, they asked HSBC to close their account and transfer the
outstanding balance to their new account with another bank which Ill call B.
HSBC said it couldnt do this as the letters it received from R had only been signed
by one signatory and the banks process required two  but it sent the letter to the
wrong addressee.
R had written to HSBC on several occasions and called the bank to confirm they
wanted the funds released (as requested by the bank) but it still hasnt happened.
A final letter was sent to HSBC in February 2022 which had been signed by two of
Rs signatories. R requested that a complaint be raised and again that the account
should be closed, and the balance transferred - but the account has remained open
with charges continuing to be incurred.
R wasnt aware there was an issue with the account name not being an exact match
for the account details theyd provided (Rs number four account) to what B held on
its system (Rs account) until this service has made them aware. They havent
received any notification of this from the bank.
HSBC told us:
It couldnt process Rs account closure initially as the request had only been signed 
by one signatory initially. Then when it did receive the correctly signed request, the
bank details for the transfer were incorrect.
It had asked R to confirm the correct bank details in February 2022, but they hadnt
been received when the complaint was raised with this service in March.
It acknowledged that it hadnt processed Rs account closure request in a timely
manner once the correctly signed request had been received. So, it paid R £100
compensation to cover the inconvenience caused and any fees the charity had
incurred.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought R had provided HSBC
with all the information required to complete the account closure in February, but this hadnt
been actioned. She also thought it was reasonable for R to be continuing to use the HSBC
account as its funds hadnt been transferred as requested. She said that HSBC hadnt
attempted to transfer Rs money by any other means so it should arrange for the transfer
immediately and refund R the fees that they had incurred on the HSBC account since
February 2022.
R agreed with the investigators opinion, but HSBC didnt respond. So the case was passed 
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 December 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. There isnt much more that I can 
add in addition to what our investigator has already said.
R initially thought that they only needed to provide authorisation from one signatory 
to close their account. However, our investigator has confirmed that HSBCs process 
was that it required the authority of two signatories to close the account. R has 
accepted that was the case and this is no longer in dispute, so what I need to 
consider now is whether HSBC treated R fairly once it received the correctly signed 
authority. Based on the evidence provided by both parties, I dont think it did. Ill 
explain why.
R says it sent numerous letters to the bank from 8 December 2021 onwards which 
they didnt receive a response to. HSBC said it didnt receive some of these letters, 
but the bank did accept that it had received the request of 8 December, and that it 
had taken too long to process Rs request when it had responded on 31 January. 
HSBC said its timescales for an account closure should be around 10 days, so it 
awarded £100 compensation for the inconvenience and fees that R had incurred 
from the delay. I think this was reasonable.
When HSBC contacted R on 31 January 2022, the bank said that two signatures 
were required to close their account, and I can see that R replied on 9 February with 
the required authority and confirmation of their new account details. So I think from 
this date, HSBC had sufficient information to proceed with the transfer.
However, HSBC told us that on 23 February, it sent an email to R explaining that the
account details theyd provided couldnt be confirmed by B - so the charity needed to 
provide the correct details. But Im not persuaded that the email was sent by HSBC 
as R has no record of the email being received and despite several requests the 
bank hasnt provided any proof that the email was sent, or who it was sent to.
Given Rs repeated requests to close the account as a matter of urgency, and the 
prompt response to previous correspondence from the bank, I think if the trustees 
had received this email, they would have responded to it in the same way they had 
previously. I also think its worth noting here that all other correspondence sent by 
HSBC to R was by letter and the bank hasnt explained why only this particular 
information request was sent in a different
way.
HSBC said that it couldnt process Rs account closure as the details R provided for it 
to transfer the account balance didnt match the account name held by B. I think it 
was reasonable for HSBC to be concerned that the account name wasnt an exact match, and therefore want confirm the funds were being transferred to the correct 
payee. However R told us that one of the trustees confirmed the information over the 
phone with HSBC  as requested by the bank in their letter of 14 February. But the 
closure still didnt take place and as far R was aware from this date there wasnt 
anything outstanding from them for the bank to proceed.
HSBC says that there hasnt been a bank error as it contacted R to request the 
correct account information and R has continued to use the account. But I dont 
agree. HSBCs actions meant R didnt have any choice but to use this account as the 
bank hadnt made the transfer request as instructed - and R werent aware there was 
outstanding information needed from them for their request to be processed.
Ive seen that our investigator has repeatedly asked HSBC what it requires to 
proceed with the account closure since 24 June 2022 or if it would be prepared to 
issue a cheque to R instead. However, the bank hasnt responded to these requests 
or looked to assist R in any way. This means that R has continued to incur charges 
from HSBC as well as B and been caused inconvenience. R has already told the 
bank thats its actions are preventing the charity from carrying out its functions.
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think HSBC has treated R fairly and I think the 
bank should refund any charges which have been applied to Rs account since 
February 2022 and arrange for account closure and transfer of funds to the account 
details provided by R. I also think HSBC has caused further inconvenience to R by 
not responding to this services requests for information for over five months. 
Therefore in line with DISP 3.5.14, I think HSBC should pay R a further £250 
compensation in addition to the £100 it has already paid.
I invited R and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. R accepted the decision and had nothing further to 
add other than they had authority to sign cheques with one signatory. HSBC didnt say 
whether it agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Rs comments about only requiring one signatory to sign cheques. However, 
as I have explained, it is HSBCs process that it requires two signatories to close an account 
 and this is a commercial decision it is able to make. Signing authority under a mandate is a 
different process and this can be decided by a customer itself. These processes are not 
inter-changeable, so I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by declining Rs account closure 
request which was only signed by one signatory. 
Therefore, as R has said it accepts the decision and HSBC hasnt responded with any 
further information, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to my provisional 
decision. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct HSBC UK
Bank Plc to do the following:
Issue a cheque to R for the funds held in the charities account and then close it.Refund any fees that R has incurred on their account since February 2022; and
Pay R a further £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman