The complaint
Ms C and Mr M complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) turned down a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, during high winds, part of a roof from an outbuilding was blown off and 
became embedded in Ms C and Mr Ms neighbours property. Ms C and Mr M called NFU to 
make a storm claim. As NFU originally said it would take around three days before a loss 
adjuster could visit; Ms C and Mr M arranged emergency works to make their neighbours 
property safe.
NFUs appointed loss adjuster visited Ms C and Mr M. He told them hed need to get a 
structural engineer to inspect the property and the structural engineer came out on the same 
day. He didnt think the damage was down to storm. He thought the damage was down to 
inadequate roof design and construction. He sent a report to NFU explaining his findings.
NFU turned down Ms C and Mr Ms claim for the damage to their outbuilding and the 
contents stored inside it. NFU said the policy specifically excluded claims which were caused 
by faulty workmanship or design. But it did agree to deal with Ms C and Mr Ms claim for third 
party damage to their neighbours roof.
Ms C and Mr M werent happy with NFUs decision about their buildings and contents claim. 
They didnt agree that the roof on the outbuilding wasnt fit for purpose and they disagreed 
with the structural engineers findings. They were unhappy with how the claim for the third 
party damage was being handled. And they were also unhappy with the overall service 
theyd received from NFU. So they asked us to look into their complaint. Ms C and Mr M also 
later let us know they were unhappy with the renewal price theyd recently been offered and 
the excess thatd been applied to their new policy.
Our investigator didnt think Ms C and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She accepted 
there were storm conditions on the day the damage happened. But she didnt think the 
structural engineers report showed that the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. So she thought it was fair for NFU to turn down Ms C and Mr Ms claim. 
The investigator explained that Ms C and Mr M would need to make a new complaint to NFU 
about their third party liability claim. And she also said Ms C and Mr M would need to raise 
the issues with policy renewal with NFU as a new complaint. Thats because NFU provided 
us with a letter dated 29 August 2019 stating its records showed Ms C and Mr M had 
withdrawn their complaint about the third party liability claim. So it hadnt had a chance to 
look into it. And the issue with policy renewal had arisen after Ms C and Mr M had already 
DRN-1420805brought their complaint to us. So she said NFU needed an opportunity to look into both 
complaint points before we could potentially help with them.
Ms C and Mr M disagreed with the investigator. They made detailed points in response to 
the investigators assessment. In summary, they stressed the severity of the storm 
conditions at the time of the claim. The outbuilding and its roof had withstood storms over 
the previous winter and had been in place for over 30 years. Had the storm not happened, 
the roof wouldnt have come off. 
They said theyd demolished the outbuilding because it was posing a safety risk to their 
family. The fact NFU had added a storm excess to their policy at renewal showed it had 
accepted their property had been damaged by storm.  They felt theyd received poor service 
from NFU and had been told certain costs were covered which hadnt been reimbursed. 
There had been a catastrophic financial and emotional impact on Ms C and Mr M. They 
asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
I understand Ms C and Mr M have been seeking updates on their third party liability claim 
while this complaint has been waiting to be passed to me. NFU tells us its made an offer of 
settlement for that claim which Ms C and Mr M arent prepared to accept while this complaint 
remains open. Ms C and Mr M will need to decide whether theyre happy to accept NFUs 
offer. If theyre unhappy with the total offer available to them, theyll need to make a new 
complaint to NFU about it before we can potentially help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for NFU 
to turn down Ms C and Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
Ms C and Mr M have provided me with detailed submissions to support their complaint. Even 
though Ive summarised what theyve said, Id like to reassure them that Ive carefully 
considered everything theyve sent me. In making my decision, Ive focused on what I think 
are the key issues.
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. Ill address 
each question in turn.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
NFU accepts there were high wind speeds around the time of the claim. Local weather 
reports it checked showed wind speeds of 58mph on the day the roof blew from the building. 
The highest gust was 62mph on the following day. Ive independently checked the local 
weather reports for those days and I think NFU has relied on accurate weather data. Like the 
investigator, Im satisfied these wind speeds were high enough to be considered to be storm 
conditions.This means I think the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
During periods of high winds, roof damage can sometimes occur to buildings. So I think the 
damage that occurred to Ms C and Mr Ms roof could broadly be classed as consistent with 
storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I appreciate Ms C and Mr M feel strongly that the roof damage happened because of the 
storm conditions. Theyve told us the roof had withstood previous storm conditions and the 
outbuilding had stood for 30 years with no issues. I know they dispute the findings of the 
structural engineer and the loss adjuster.
For a claim to be paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  
which we generally call an insured event. In this case, Ms C and Mr M have claimed for 
damage caused by a storm. Damage caused by a storm is covered by the terms of the 
policy. But for the claim to be paid, NFU needs to be satisfied that the roof damage Ms C 
and Mr M have claimed for was caused by a storm.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. NFU 
asked a structural engineer and a loss adjuster to investigate the likely cause of the damage. 
I think this was a reasonable and appropriate response from NFU.
The structural engineer didnt think the main cause of the damage was storm. He said:
The roof as installed by the policyholder was not fit for purpose. The roof was not tied down 
in any way to the supporting masonry walls and would have had almost no resistance to 
wind uplift. The roof as installed was in our opinion an accident waiting to happenWhilst 
we appreciate it was during high winds the winds were not exceptional and any adequate 
construction incorporating restraint straps to resist wind loading would have weathered a 
normal storm. We therefore conclude the cause of the damage was inadequate design and 
construction .
Ive carefully considered the structural engineers report. And Ive placed significant weight 
on it in reaching my decision. Thats because the engineer is a qualified structural specialist. 
His report is the only piece of expert evidence I have which sets out the likely cause of 
damage. 
Ms C and Mr M havent been able to provide me with any findings from an independent 
structural engineer or surveyor to counter the findings of NFUs engineer. I understand why 
Ms C and Mr M felt they needed to get the outbuilding demolished quickly, which meant the 
building could no longer be inspected. But it seems this was after NFU had told them the 
claim wouldnt be covered and why. So it seems it was potentially open to them to have the 
building surveyed independently before it was demolished.
Based on this evidence, I think it was fair for NFU to rely on the structural engineers report 
when deciding whether the claim should be accepted. It appears most likely that the main 
cause of damage was the construction and design of the roof  issues which were 
highlighted by the storm winds. It doesnt appear that the storm winds were the main cause 
of the damage. So I think it was fair for NFU to turn down Ms C and Mr Ms storm damage 
claim for both their building and contents.I appreciate Ms C and Mr M feel they received poor service from NFU. I can see it took a 
couple of days for NFU to come and visit their property. I can understand why this wouldve 
been frustrating at an already stressful and worrying time. And I can also see they chased 
NFU for updates at times. But as I think it was reasonable for NFU to turn down their claim, I 
cant fairly ask NFU to pay them any compensation.
Id also add that while Ms C and Mr M have told us the loss adjuster said certain costs would 
be reimbursed, this isnt reflected in NFUs notes. These suggest Ms C and Mr M were 
asked whether they wanted a contractor to store their contents and they preferred to buy a 
storage container. The notes also say the loss adjuster told them the costs would be 
considered as part of the claim. This doesnt mean the costs would be paid  simply that 
theyd be considered as part of the claim as a whole if it was covered. So its possible Ms C 
and Mr M misunderstood what the loss adjuster had said about this.
Ms C and Mr M are also unhappy about the inclusion of a storm excess on their policy and 
feel it indicates NFUs acceptance that they did suffer storm damage to their home. As the 
investigator explained, what happened at Ms C and Mr Ms policy renewal isnt something 
Im able to consider as part of this complaint. NFU had already decided that Ms C and Mr 
Ms claim wasnt covered several months before their renewal was due though. So I dont 
think the inclusion of a storm excess some time later indicates NFU accepted liability for the 
storm claim. This means I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Overall, while I sympathise with the impact this claim has had on Ms C and Mr M, I think 
NFU has treated them fairly in its handling of it. So Ive decided not to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman