DRN-2652731
The complaint
Mr T complains about MS Amlin Underwriting Limiteds decision to reject his claim for the 
total loss of his boat.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. I was satisfied that Mr T had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented information 
about the purchase price of his boat when he bought the policy and renewed it each year 
thereafter. 
The summary of the complaint is that Mr T bought a boat for £5,500 but when he completed 
the insurance proposal form, he said the price was £22,000. The policy was agreed at that 
value and in the event of a total loss Mr T would receive £22,000. However, the proposal 
form was clear and explicit that Mr T had to disclose the actual price paid and if the value to 
be insured was greater then he had to provide details to justify the difference. But Mr T didnt 
do that.
The form gave succinct and clear explanatory notes on the meaning of actual price paid 
and stated that any money spent since purchase in improving the vessel must be excluded. 
And the documentation, including each renewal, was specific about the importance of the 
information Mr T provided as reflecting the actual price paid and the consequences if 
information was incorrect. 
I explained the relevant duties on Mr T from initial purchase (disclosing every material 
circumstance known under the Marine Insurance Act 1906) and through each renewal (take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)). 
In my provisional decision I made the following findings;
- Mr T misrepresented the actual price paid.
- The question about this was clear.
- He didnt observe utmost good faith at purchase.
- He deliberately chose to give incorrect information about the price.
- At each renewal the information about sum insured and actual price paid was clear.
- He misrepresented information and failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
- He did so deliberately or recklessly.
- MS Amlin wouldnt have offered insurance to Mr T had it known the price paid.
- Instead, it would have required him to have a dry survey done and a valuation 
confirmed. But until that was done MS Amlin would have refused cover.
MS Amlin didnt respond but Mr T explained that he disagreed with the outcome Id 
provisionally reached. A summary of his main points are as follows;
- He was paying in good faith for insurance cover. 
- He was unaware the insurance was with a different company to the agent he took it 
out through.
- He didnt deliberately mislead.
- He insures other valuable assets and isnt defrauding anyone.
- Hes not a lawyer and this should be about common sense and understanding on a 
common level that non legal minds can understand.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the time Mr T has taken to reply and Ive considered that response in full. 
In simple terms all Mr T had to do when buying the insurance was to answer the question he 
was asked. The question he was presented with, and the answer given, was as follows;
Actual Price Paid1£22,000
Below this on the same page of the form hes asked about the Sums to be insured and he 
expressed £22,000 next to the following note;
1The 'Price Paid' must EXCLUDE money spent since purchase in improving the vessel.
(FULL details of such expenditure must be provided if you wish that to be taken into
account.)
 
This is not, in my view, a legal point or hidden small print that one might expect a legal mind 
to interpret. He was asked a question, simplistic in nature and presentation, but deliberately 
chose to give an answer based on what he thought the value of the boat was after he 
expended money on improving it. As such, Im not persuaded to change my view.
Due to the simple nature of what he was asked I find it irrelevant as to any points in issue 
that hes insured other more valuable assets. 
Having considered the matter very carefully I remain satisfied that Mr T failed to disclose 
every material circumstance and failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. He made that misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly and MS Amlin 
would not have offered covered until and unless he had his boat surveyed and a valuation 
confirmed. 
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by this decision, particularly as his boat may have 
been worth more than the sum insured. However, several years passed with continued 
misrepresentation on an agreed value policy that the sum insured was the actual price paid. 
MS Amlin has been deprived of any opportunity to make an informed decision about whether 
it would offer cover and for what amount. Mr T knowingly gave incorrect and misleading 
information and so I dont find it fair in the circumstances of this case that MS Amlin should 
be required to pay Mr Ts claim.
For the avoidance of doubt, I have not considered any issue of fraud or made any findings in 
relation to that. Fraud is not something that MS Amlin has raised with us and so not an issue 
I have found any need to refer to. I only do so now because of Mr Ts response that he is not 
in the habit of defrauding anybody  that hasnt been an issue of this case. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman