DRN-3870766
The complaint
Mr W's complaint about the sale of a pet insurance policy by AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
What happened 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2022, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
Mr W took out two pet insurance policies with AXA in 2011 for his dogs. AXA withdrew from 
the pet insurance market in 2014 and its policies were sold to another insurer. Mr W 
continued one of the policies with the new insurer, as the dog covered by that policy had an 
existing condition, for which he wanted cover to continue. 
The new insurer increased the premium Mr W was paying significantly in 2014. Due to the 
dogs existing condition, Mr W says he felt he needed to continue the policy but made a 
complaint in 2014 about the increase in premium and AXAs withdrawal from the market.   
Mr W said it was because AXA had sold the policies on that he was being charged more by 
the new insurer who was trying to price him out of cover. The price rise that instigated that 
complaint was when the premium went from £357.29 to £1,927.44. Mr W wanted 
compensation for the increased premiums hell have to pay for the lifetime of his dog. 
Another Ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint in 2015 and it was not upheld. 
The Ombudsman determined that AXA was entitled to withdraw from the market and it had 
treated Mr W fairly and in line with other customers at the time; and that the new underwriter 
was entitled to charge the premiums it did. 
Mr W has now complained again about the price rise at renewal in September 2020, which 
he says he has no option but to pay as his dogs pre-existing conditions would not be 
covered if he moved to a different policy/insurer. The insurer has increased the price from 
£1,230 to £2,042 and also increased the excess and introduced a co-payment. Mr W has 
also confirmed that the premium dropped significantly in a couple of years as well from 
£1,927.44 in 2014 to £599.06 for 2015, and £1,702.32 in 2016 to £1,023.03 in 2017. 
Mr W says the policy was mis-sold by AXA in 2011, as it did not make him aware that it, or 
other future insurers, would be allowed to make such significant price increases. He says he 
should have been made aware of this by AXA at the outset, since due to his dogs age and 
existing health conditions he cant reasonably get alternative insurance cover now.
Mr W says this has caused him distress and hardship due to having to pay the higher 
premiums. 
AXA initially said the complaint is out of our jurisdiction, as it was brought to us outside the 
time limits required, given the event complained about (i.e. its original sale of the policy) 
happened in 2011. However, it has since confirmed that it consents to us looking at the 
complaint. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He concluded that AXA had not 
demonstrated that it had explained adequately to Mr W that lifetime policies such as this one 
can increase so significantly in price. While the insurer was entitled to charge the premium it 
had, the Investigator thought that if AXA had explained at the outset how the price of the 
policy might increase, it would have saved Mr W some shock and upset. The Investigator 
recommended that AXA pay Mr W £500 compensation for the shock of the increase in 
premium. 
AXA does not accept the Investigators assessment. AXA does not agree that it is 
responsible for a price increase by another insurer, for a policy it hasnt underwritten since 
2014. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a review of the way lifetime pet 
insurance was sold, in particular about the information provided to consumers about the long 
term pricing, in 2017. The new insurer has had plenty of time since that review to provide the 
information to Mr W and it is not responsible for any lack of understanding about the 
possibility of premium increases. And in any case, it says Mr W was already aware, as a 
result of his previous complaint, that the premiums could go up without any cap on how 
much, so should not have been shocked by the 2020 increase. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, the cost and any significant terms or conditions. Essentially, the information 
provided to the buyer must put them in a position to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take the policy. To fulfil this responsibility, we would expect a seller to 
explain clearly any significant terms, including the cost of the policy. This may be verbally or 
by providing clear documentation.
The cost of insuring a pet will generally increase each year, as the pet gets older because 
the likelihood of claims increases and the cost of medical treatment rises. This is especially 
true of lifetime policies such as the one Mr W took out with AXA in 2011. Most pet 
insurance policies wont cover any medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment for, 
when the policy was taken out or renewed, so ongoing medical conditions wont usually be 
covered. But 'life-time policies will cover any conditions on an ongoing basis for the rest of 
the pets life, as long as the policy remains in force. This means there is a higher risk of 
claims being made and so the cost of providing this cover tends to be more expensive than 
other types of pet insurance on the market. 
Premiums can also increase significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the 
premium could be and we cant impose one. Different insurers apply different factors but 
they might include an individuals claims history, the cost of vets in the relevant locality, and 
the age and breed of the pet, among other things. Mr W has also confirmed he accepts that 
the current insurer was entitled to charge the premium it has. 
Given the above, we would expect those selling lifetime policies to provide clear information 
about the cost of the policy to include the potential for significant increases in the price. 
There is very little evidence available of what was explained to Mr W at the original sale of 
the policy in 2011. There is no convincing evidence that Mr W was informed of the potential 
significant increases in premium that might occur with this type of policy and there is nothing 
in the policy documents from AXA, that would make this sufficiently clear. I therefore need to 
consider the impact this had, if any, on Mr W. Mr W didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. But 
those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered with 
a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if a 
pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the 
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place. In this instance it seems Mr W 
was looking for a lifetime policy. And as premium rises of this type are common across the 
market I think its likely that Mr W would have still bought this policy, even if AXA had 
explained how the premium might change, as thats the type of policy he was looking for. 
And he has made a number of claims under the policy, so has benefited for ongoing 
conditions, which hed likely have had to pay for himself if he had chosen not to take the 
policy. Overall, I don't think hed have done much different even if AXA had given him more 
information at the point of sale. Hed either have not taken the policy, but would have had to 
bear the cost of treatment of any ongoing conditions himself, or he would have still taken this 
or another lifetime policy. 
I understand that Mr W is now in a difficult position but that is not as a result of anything AXA 
has done wrong. The premium is set by the insurer and AXA has not been the insurer since 
2014. I do understand that the significant increase in premium in September 2020, would 
have been unwelcome. However, Mr W has been aware for a number of years of the 
potential for significant increases in premium, given his previous complaint. I do not therefore 
agree that any shock arising in September 2020 and September 2021 can be attributed 
solely to any lack of information provided by AXA in 2011. Given this, I do not agree that any 
compensation is warranted. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons set out above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further arguments or 
information they want considered. 
AXA has not added anything further. 
Mr W has responded. He does not accept my provisional decision and has made a number 
of points, which Ive summarised below:
It was us that told him to bring this complaint against AXA. 
AXA failed to disclose its plan to withdraw from the market or that the premiums 
would increase so significantly in 2011. This was AXAs responsibility, not the 
subsequent insurers.
Ive made assumptions without fact or consultation. He researched pet policies 
before taking the policy with AXA in 2011 and brought a lifetime policy to give his pet 
the best possible cover. But if he had known how much premiums would rise, he 
would not have taken the policy with AXA. He would instead have gone with another 
provider, who guarantees that premiums do not rise as a result of claims (which he 
did for his other pets after AXA withdrew from the market). 
It is not relevant that the policy has covered claims for ongoing conditions. Hed have 
got the same cover elsewhere, if hed known of AXAs withdrawal from the market 
and the potential increases in premiums. The stress of having a pet with lifelong 
conditions has been made worse by the way AXA treated him. 
Mr W has also referred to a decision issued by another Ombudsman on another complaint regarding a lack of information about the future cost of lifetime pet insurance, which was 
upheld. He has asked me to reconsider my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand Mr Ws disappointment with my provisional decision, given the Investigator 
had initially recommended his complaint be upheld. However, either party can appeal an 
Investigators assessment and ask for an Ombudsman to consider everything afresh, as 
AXA did. An Ombudsmans final decision is the final stage in our process. 
I concluded in my provisional decision that AXA probably didnt give clear information about 
the potential significant increases in the premium when it sold the policy in 2011. I can make 
an award for material distress or inconvenience, or financial loss caused by something a 
financial business such as AXA has done wrong. I cannot fine or punish a firm for a technical 
breach which has not had any impact on the complainant. I therefore considered what 
impact, if any, the lack of information about future premiums in 2011 had on Mr W.
Having considered everything, I didnt think it was likely Mr Ws position would be very 
different as he would either have had to pay for his own dogs treatment himself, or he would 
have still taken the policy with AXA, or he would ahev taken another lifetime policy with 
another provider. 
Mr W has stated he would have taken another policy with another provider. I said in my 
provisional decision that this was likely, given he clearly wanted a lifetime policy for his dog. 
However, I also considered it was likely that any lifetime pet insurance policy would have 
been subject to similarly significant premium increases over time as the AXA policy. Theres 
no convincing evidence that this would not have been the case. 
Mr W implies that a policy with the other insurer would not have become as expensive as the 
policy from AXA did, as it guarantees that it doesnt increase premiums as a direct result of 
claims made. However, that doesnt mean that insurers premiums would not increase 
significantly over time, as the dog got older and other factors such vet costs increase, in the 
same way that the policy with AXA did. Lifetime policies are expensive because of the cover 
that is provided under them. 
I therefore remain of the opinion that Mr W would not be in any materially different financial 
position, if he had known in 2011 about the potential for premium increases. 
I also remain of the opinion that any shock at the increased premium in 2020, was not solely 
due to any lack of information from AXA in 2011. Mr W was understandably not happy about 
the increase but given the previous changes in premium, this would not have been entirely 
unexpected. 
Mr W has also referred to a decision by another Ombudsman which resulted in an award of 
compensation for that complainant. Each case is dealt with on its own merits and we do not 
have a system of precedent.  In any case, while this involves a significant premium increase 
of a lifetime pet insurance policy, the circumstances are not exactly the same as Mr Ws 
case. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this coUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman