Complaint
Mrs G says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mrs G bought the PPI in 2003 whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mrs G has already been offered some money back for the 
commission Tesco received from selling her the PPI. 
Mrs G still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and disagrees with the 
adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs G says she was unduly influenced to buy the PPI. But these events are now over 16 
years ago and I was sent a copy of her credit card application. I can see the form gave an 
obvious choice to either have, or not have, the PPI and Mrs G signed her name next to a 
declaration about Cardholder Payment Protection to add the PPI policy. She also signed 
the application form at the bottom. 
Mrs G didnt have to sign this part so I think she agreed to the policy.
I note this was a postal application and not an advised sale. So Tesco didnt need to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. The decision about buying the cover was for Mrs G to 
make and she would have made her way through the postal form without any intervention 
from Tesco. 
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
So I think Mrs G would have had enough information on which to make an informed 
decision. I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more clearly but I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mrs G went on to do.
DRN-1089612This is because Ive looked at Mrs Gs situation and I think she was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at 
the work she did, I agree she might have had some moderate sickness protection. But this 
doesnt mean the PPI cover wasnt of value to her. It would have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been 
in addition to any other means she had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but I think the evidence shows she chose the policy herself and 
in her own time. She would have been able to see it wasnt something she needed to have. 
This means Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Tesco has already agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because when 
the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium). It should have told her about that. Because it didnt, that was 
unfair.  
To put that right, Tesco has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already agreed to pay her for the commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman