DRN-2628022
The complaint
Mr S complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned down a 
claim he made on his personal private medical insurance policy.
Mr S is represented by Mr V.
What happened
Mr S has a personal Global Gold private medical insurance policy. The policy began on 25 
February 2020 and was due to expire on 24 February 2021. When CIGNA offered Mr S 
insurance cover, it specifically excluded cover for any claims relating to cardiovascular 
disease or disorder, coronary artery disease or disorder and any associated or related 
symptoms and complications. 
On 19 April 2020, Mr S was admitted to hospital and was diagnosed with an embolism in his 
subsegmental pulmonary artery. He made a claim on his private medical insurance policy for 
the medical expenses associated with his admission. CIGNAs clinical team reviewed the 
medical report from the treating hospital. It turned down the claim because it said that Mr S 
condition fell within the scope of the cardiovascular exclusion clause. 
Mr S was unhappy with CIGNAs decision. He provided medical reports from his treating 
doctors which said that the cause of the embolism wasnt coronary artery disease, but a 
disorder of coagulation factors. But CIGNA maintained its stance. So Mr V asked us to look 
into Mr S complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She considered how CIGNA 
had reviewed Mr S claim. It had stated that it couldnt cover any claims related to the heart 
or blood vessels. As Mr S pulmonary artery was a blood vessel, which had become blocked 
by the embolism, she felt it was fair for CIGNA to conclude that Mr S condition was related 
to a cardiovascular disorder. This meant she felt it was fair for CIGNA to turn down his claim.
Mr V disagreed on Mr S behalf. He said that Mr S didnt think the policy exclusion had been 
applied justly to his claim. Thats because hed provided medical reports which contradicted 
CIGNAs opinion. He also said that Mr S had requested a copy of a telephone call several 
times, which hadnt been sent.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think it was fair for CIGNA to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr S policy with CIGNA and the available evidence to decide if CIGNA handled the 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr S policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
CIGNA. The policy terms include a section called General Exclusions. One of these 
exclusions says that CIGNA will not pay for:
Treatment for a condition which is the subject of a special exclusion. Special exclusions are 
set out in your Certificate of insurance.
Mr S Certificate of Insurance sets out the terms upon which CIGNA agreed to insure Mr S. 
Under the Medical Exclusions section, CIGNA has excluded three conditions. One of which 
says:
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE OR DISORDER/CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE and any 
associated or related conditions or symptoms and any complications.
So I think the Certificate of Insurance makes it clear that CIGNA wont cover any claims 
which are related to cardiovascular disease or disorder or coronary artery disease.
Ive next turned to consider whether it was fair for CIGNA to conclude that Mr S pulmonary 
artery embolism did fall within the scope of the exclusion itd applied to his policy. Ive 
considered the definition of a cardiovascular system. This is simply the heart and blood 
vessels, which transport blood and nutrients around the body. The pulmonary artery is a 
blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the capillaries of the lungs. An 
embolism is defined as the obstruction of an artery  typically by a clot, or an air bubble. So 
it seems reasonable for CIGNA to conclude that Mr S pulmonary artery formed part of his 
cardiovascular system.
Mr S medical report states that he was diagnosed with an embolism to a subsegmental 
pulmonary artery. It says that he received anti-coagulant treatment. Ive noted that the 
director of the Cardiology clinic treating Mr S stated: the pulmonary embolism is not the 
result of coronary heart disease but a disorder of the coagulation factors. And one of Mr S 
treating doctors said: the cardiological examination performed was negative for a coronary
episode or deterioration of a previous one. 
I appreciate that Mr S treating doctors didnt think his condition was linked to coronary heart 
disease and so Mr S feels its unfair for CIGNA to apply the exclusion. But the exclusion 
CIGNA applied to the policy didnt only exclude cover for claims related to coronary heart 
disease. It also excludes claims arising from conditions or symptoms which are associated 
with cardiovascular disease or disorder. In this case, CIGNAs clinical team reviewed the 
medical evidence, as Id expect it to do and considered that Mr S embolism was at least 
related to or associated with cardiovascular disorder. Based on the available evidence; the 
function of the pulmonary artery and the illness Mr S suffered, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for CIGNA to conclude that his claim was excluded from cover.
Mr V mentioned that CIGNA hasnt sent Mr S a copy of a call recording he asked for. I can 
see from CIGNAs final response letter that the complaint handler said she would send an 
encrypted copy of the call to Mr S by email once shed received it from CIGNAs IT team. 
Given it doesnt appear Mr S received a copy of this call, I think it would be sensible and 
appropriate for CIGNA to now arrange with Mr S for a copy of the call to be resent to him.I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr S position, because I understand he suffered 
from a serious illness and I also understand that as a result of Covid-19, hes suffered some 
financial difficulty. But based on all Ive seen, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for 
CIGNA to rely on its exclusion clause to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman