DRN-1595302
The complaint
Mr W has complained J D Williams & Company Limited continues to put linked addresses on 
his credit record which are not his.
What happened
In 2019 Mr W noticed an address had been added to his credit record as linked to him. Hed 
had this problem before when a number of fraudulent accounts with J D Williams had been 
opened in his name. Hed eventually got J D Williams to sort this out in 2017 after a 
prolonged battle. He was therefore extremely concerned this problem cropped up again.
J D Williams reviewed their records but felt theyd done nothing to cause this. Back in 2017 
theyd marked the account as fraudulent and made sure their debt recovery agent took no 
further action.
Mr W was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt there had been an error. He asked J D Williams to pay Mr W £200 in 
compensation. Whilst J D Williams didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, they were 
willing to make this payment.
Mr W however didnt believe this was sufficient taking into account what had happened. He 
felt the impact on him had been substantial and compensation within that category would be 
more appropriate.
His complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion and for roughly the same reasons as our 
investigator. I am, however, going to award Mr W an increased level of compensation. Ive 
already written to J D Williams to confirm this. They were willing to increase the 
compensation to £250 but knowing the history of Mr Ws complaint, I think hes unlikely to 
accept this.
Im not going to cover all the points raised by Mr W in his detailed submissions. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
includes whats required of businesses in ensuring correct data is lodged on individuals 
credit records.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence given to me by both 
parties, as well as what J D Williams and Mr W have told us. I can see most of this was 
covered in our investigators view of 24 January 2020 including what had previously 
occurred between Mr W, J D Williams and their debt recovery agent. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Ive also reviewed Mr Ws detailed comments in response to 
that view which were also shared with J D Williams.
In any case theres no dispute that  although J D Williams cannot explain how it happened 
 an address which is not his had been linked to Mr Ws information on his credit record. I 
can also see that because of the history of being a victim of ID fraud and a debt being 
reclaimed from him before, this must have made Mr W extremely frustrated.
Mr W had taken steps in 2017 to avoid such issues re-occurring by taking out protective 
registration and placing precautionary notices on his credit records. Hed also accepted both 
J D Williams and their agents confirmation that everything had been sorted out. 
In considering whats happened here, I note its extremely unfortunate that someone found 
out enough about Mr W to use some of his details to open fraudulent accounts. Its a horrible 
thing to have happened and I can appreciate the impact thats had on him.  
However I cant blame J D Williams for the actions of a fraudster. Its clear Mr W believes 
that J D Williams strategy and business priorities are not sufficiently targeted towards 
protecting innocent victims of ID fraud. Hes aware though that this is not an issue for our 
service to opine on. Were not the regulator in this area and J D Williams compliance with 
regulation and the processes they have in place are an issue for the Financial Conduct 
Authority and not our service. My role is to review what happened in Mr Ws case and the 
impact on him.
But having reviewed the actions J D Williams did take, I believe errors were made and this 
resulted in Mr Ws credit record being linked to an incorrect address. This also had an impact 
on him. So much so I believe J D Williams should provide Mr W with compensation.
Putting things right
I believe J D Williams should pay Mr W £500 for the trouble caused. This is substantially 
more than the figure our investigator proposed but Ive already made J D Williams aware of 
this figure.
Its clear this further instance of incorrect data on Mr Ws record had an impact on him. I may 
not have decided £500 was fair if there hadnt been earlier instances. This suggests that J D 
Williams had not taken all the steps necessary to limit this re-occurrence despite being 
aware what had happened previously. I appreciate nothing is failsafe and they wouldnt be 
able to always identify instances of ID fraud but this was a name and date of birth that had 
been used fraudulently before. Id have expected J D Williams to have picked this up.
Mr W opted to take out subscriptions to check his credit record and as protective registration 
on the industry fraud database, CIFAS. I can understand why he may have done this after 
finding himself a victim of ID fraud. Im not separately asking J D Williams to refund those 
payments.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct J D Williams & Company Limited to 
pay Mr W £500 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman