DRN-3126471
The complaint
Mr W says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that it has failed to carry out 
proportionate checks. If it had done proper checks it wouldve seen that he couldnt afford 
the loan repayments and it shouldnt have lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loan Morses provided to Mr W between 
September 2018 and May 2020.
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 10/09/2018 £400 33 02/04/2019
2 02/04/2019 £400 33 13/08/2019
3 06/08/2019 £700 52 26/05/2020
4 26/05/2020 £700 53 28/05/2021
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses has irresponsibly 
lent when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he did think that it shouldnt have approved loan 4. 
This is because he thought the lending pattern itself looked harmful by this point. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr W didnt usually have more 
than one loan running at the same time, the loans looked affordable and his payment history 
was very good. 
Mr W didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr W had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering loan 4.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mr W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
Mr W had taken out four loans within 20 months. And Mr W was making a 
commitment for another year. This is a long time to be using this high cost credit. 
And at this loan Mr W was committed to making repayments of £25 a week which 
seems like a reasonably high amount over this length of time. 
Mr Ws first loan was for £400 and loan 4 was for £700. This was a significant 
increase.  
Right from the start Mr W was provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling a previous one. Added to this, whilst Mr Ws loan repayments didnt overlap, 
he does usually use the new lending to repay his existing loans. 
Overall, it seems to me that this lending pattern at loan four shows that Mr W wasnt 
really managing to keep on top of the loans, and he was borrowing reasonably high 
amounts again to make ends meet. So, at this point Morses ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Morses ought to have known that Mr W was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
I think that Mr W lost out because Morses provided loan 4 because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 4. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr W loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing at loan 4 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Ws credit file. If Morses has sold 
any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman