DRN-1705904
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance policy (MPPI) policy taken 
out with a mortgage in 1997. The policy was amended in 2000 when Mr and Mrs H took out 
a further advance on the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H say that Lloyds Bank PLC (at the time Cheltenham and Gloucester C&G) 
mis-sold them the MPPI.
background
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs H disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say that they believe they werent told that MPPI had been taken out 
alongside their mortgage  but also that they were told it was mandatory. They have also 
provided two mortgage acceptance documents that dont show MPPI.
However, the paperwork that Mr and Mrs H have provided is from 1990 when their mortgage 
originally started. But they didnt have MPPI at this time. The MPPI policy and subsequent 
amendment didnt start until 1997.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the time that the policy was originally 
sold, or when the amendment took place  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so 
long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs H, but due to the lack of information 
available, I dont have enough to say that the MPPI policy, or the amendment, werent 
presented as optional  and so I cant uphold their complaint for this reason.
Lloyds probably recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H  so it had to check that it was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
the policy and amendment were suitable. For example, they werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations of the MPPI  and they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Its also possible that the information Lloyds gave to Mr and Mrs H about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been  but it seems that it couldve ben useful to them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think that better information about the 
MPPI wouldve put them off taking out the cover.
This means that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything that Mr and Mrs H have said, but these points dont change my 
decision. 
other considerations  
Ive also considered if Lloyds needs to pay back Mr and Mrs H any of the commission they 
paid on the MPPI policy - but the Supreme Court ruling, and subsequent rules and guidance, 
only apply to credit agreements (in this case Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage) taken out on or after 
6 April 2007, or that were still running on 6 April 2008. And from the information Ive seen, 
these dates dont apply to Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. So, Lloyds doesnt have to refund any 
of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on the MPPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman