DRN-4065094
The complaint
Mr A complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
irresponsibly gave him two fixed sum loan agreements he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr A was given a cash loan of £25,000. He was required to pay 79 monthly 
repayments of £453.56, with a total repayable of £35,831.24. 
In October 2020, Mr A took out a further fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi, but this 
time it was a loan to finance the purchase of furniture. The cash price of the furniture was 
£2,016. The agreement was interest free and Mr A was required to repay 48 monthly 
repayments of £42. 
Mr A complained to Mitsubishi in June 2022 to say that the loans had been unaffordable for 
him and that Mitsubishi would have seen this too if it had completed appropriate checks 
before lending to him. 
Mitsubishi said it had completed adequate affordability checks before approving both loans. 
It said with loan one, Mr A had declared an annual income of £150,000 and the credit checks 
it completed demonstrated that this income was likely to be accurate and that he would have 
sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayments. In relation to loan two, it 
said that Mr As annual income had dropped to £50,000, however, his other external credit 
commitments had also significantly reduced. It said it considered the relatively low 
repayment of £42 per month to be affordable based on the information it gathered about his 
financial circumstances. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He considered that Mitsubishi 
had complete proportionate affordability checks in relation to loan one and that from the 
information and evidence it had gathered he didnt think it had made an unfair lending 
decision. In relation to loan two, he considered it might have been reasonable for Mitsubishi 
to have done more, however, he hadnt seen anything to indicate that further checks would 
have revealed any affordability concerns. 
Mr A didnt agree. In summary, he said that he was gambling heavily at the time of the first 
loan and had Mitsubishi seen this, they would not have lent to him. He said that other 
complaints about loans taken out shortly before this one had been upheld based on his 
financial circumstances and that he had to extend borrowing on his mortgage in order to 
afford the repayments. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered the rules and guidance within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(known as CONC) within the regulators handbook, as well as the law, other relevant rules 
and regulations and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the relevant time. 
Prior to granting Mr A with credit Mitsubishi were required to ensure that the lending would 
be affordable and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks it had to complete to assess 
affordability, instead it needed to ensure any checks it did complete were proportionate in 
the circumstances. In deciding what were proportionate checks, it needed to take account of 
things such as (but not limited to): the amount of the borrowing, the cost of credit, the type of 
credit, the size of the regular repayments, the term and the consumers circumstances. 
Loan one
Mr A declared on his application form that he earned an annual salary of £150,000. 
Mitsubishi calculated this to be around £7,700 per month and it says it used a tool provided 
by a credit reference agency to verify this income. It says this check confirmed that what 
Mr A had declared about his income was likely to be true. 
Mitsubishi also completed a credit check. Although it hasnt been able to provide us with a 
copy of that check it says it showed that Mr A had unsecured credit commitments of around 
£65,000 with monthly repayments of around £1,800 and a mortgage with monthly 
repayments of around £1,350. It said there was no adverse information recorded or signs of 
financial difficulty. Having reviewed a copy of Mr As credit file that hes supplied to us, Ive 
seen no reason to disbelieve what Mitsubishi has said about what its checks revealed. 
Mitsubishi said this demonstrated that Mr A would have in excess of £4,000 each month for 
essential household expenditure which it considered more than adequate to cover those, the 
new loan repayment and leave enough left over for emergency and unexpected costs. 
Taking into account what Mitsubishi had found out about Mr As specific financial 
circumstances and the relevant factors relating to the loan, Im satisfied that the checks 
Mitsubishi completed were reasonable and proportionate. I havent seen anything within the 
checks or evidence it gathered that makes me think it made an unfair lending decision. 
I note Mr A says he was gambling heavily at the time and this is why he couldnt afford the 
repayments. However, I cant fairly say that Mitsubishi knew about this or would have 
reasonably found out about it either, as I dont think it needed to complete further checks. 
And even if further checks had been proportionate, I dont think those would ever have 
involved Mitsubishi needing to manually review his bank statements, given his level of 
income, his credit history and available disposable income. 
Loan two
When Mr A applied for loan two, he had declared a significant change in his annual income, 
down to £50,000. However, Mitsubishis credit checks also revealed that his unsecured 
credit commitments had also significantly reduced, down to £11,500 with monthly 
repayments of around £190. Mr A had also settled loan one (above) early and in full around 
eight months earlier. However, Mr As mortgage commitment had increased to around 
£2,650 per month. This appears to be because he took out an additional mortgage to reduce 
his unsecured debts.  
Mitsubishi says that when calculating the affordability of loan two it assumed that Mr A was 
only responsible for half the mortgage as it was in joint names. Based on the information 
Mr A has provided it appears the second mortgage was joint, but its unclear whether the first 
charge mortgage was. So, I cant be certain that what Mitsubishi concluded was reasonable and therefore I think it may have been proportionate for it to have done more before 
agreeing to lend. I think in the circumstances it ought to have done more to verify Mr As 
income and asked him about his committed expenditure. 
Weve asked Mr A to provide us with details of his income and expenditure from around this 
time. However, the bank statements hes provided us dont shed much light on the key 
information about his income and outgoings as those statements from that particular current 
account dont show what he earned or what he spent. Therefore, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that more thorough affordability checks for loan two ought to have caused 
Mitsubishi to be concerned about the affordability of the loan. Im therefore not satisfied it 
made an unfair lending decision. 
Mr A says that other loans hes complained about were upheld. However, each case is 
considered on its own merits and the circumstances of each lending decision are unique. As 
Ive said earlier in the decision, there isnt a set list of checks that need to be completed, 
there is no one-size-fits-all approach. For the reasons, Ive set out in this decision, Im 
satisfied that for loan one proportionate checks were completed and it wasnt unfair for 
Mitsubishi to lend based on the information it gathered. For loan two, I think more should 
have been done, but Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that further checks 
ought to have led to a different lending decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman