DRN-3401419
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as T complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) treated it unfairly by not defending a chargeback claim against it.
The complaint is brought on its behalf by the partners, Mr and Mrs W. 
What happened
T is a business within the travel sector. A customer of T booked a holiday which was due to 
take place in June 2020. On 18 March 2020, the customer cancelled the holiday due to the 
recent Covid-19 pandemic and government advice which restricted travel. 
The customer was given a partial refund by Ts third-party supplier for the accommodation 
and park tickets  but not the flights. The customer tried to arrange a refund of the flights 
through the airline directly but was unsuccessful, so they asked their bank to request a 
chargeback. The customers bank raised a chargeback against T through Barclays  as the 
merchant bank  who in turn contacted the partners to make them aware a chargeback had 
been made against T. 
The partners told the bank that T didnt have the customers money as it was just the agent, 
not the contracting party, and that this had been paid to the holiday supplier. The partners 
also explained that they were aware that the supplier had agreed to refund the holiday costs 
to the customer directly, less the cost of the flight and a £1,500 fee which had been paid to 
change the date of the booking previously. The partners said the customer had also 
confirmed that hed received a credit note from the airline directly for a future flight. The 
partners then provided Barclays with documents confirming the refund and the terms and 
conditions the customer had agreed to. 
Barclays initially defended the chargeback against T and forwarded the information the 
partners had provided to the customers bank. However, the customers bank didnt accept 
Barclays defence and said the bank either needed to accept the chargeback or take the 
case to arbitration. Barclays didnt believe it could successfully defend Ts case at arbitration, 
so it accepted the chargeback.  
The partners didnt think Barclays had treated T fairly. They said Barclays website said no 
refunds should be given until a chargeback dispute had been resolved, and the partners 
believed the customer was claiming for a refund twice. The partners made a complaint to the 
bank on the basis that it had refunded money which the customer wasnt entitled to. When 
the partners didnt get a satisfactory response, they asked this service to look into Ts 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She said the bank had tried 
to defend the chargeback initially but based on the evidence available, she thought it had 
drawn a reasonable conclusion that it wouldnt be able to defend the case at arbitration. 
The partners didnt agree. They said Barclays hadnt attempted to support T and had taken 
the easy option to proceed with the chargeback, despite the evidence they had provided. So 
the partners asked for an ombudsman to review Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Firstly, I need to make it clear that I can only consider Ts dispute with Barclays, 
not the third-party supplier involved in the transaction, nor Ts customer. I can only look at 
whether Barclays has treated T fairly and reasonably in line with the Scheme rules. 
A chargeback is the process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants under the relevant card Scheme rules (in this case, Mastercard). Barclays dont 
operate the Scheme or decide if a chargeback is successful  it can only decide whether or 
not to defend it. If the merchant bank chooses to defend against the chargeback, the case 
will go to arbitration before the card Scheme  who will consider all the evidence. The costs 
of arbitration can be significant to the losing party in the dispute. 
I can see that Barclays - as the merchant bank - contacted the partners to ask for 
information relating to the transactions it had received a chargeback request for. And that it 
sent this to the customers bank who didnt accept the defence that Barclays had put forward 
on Ts behalf. I recognise that the partners feel Barclays should have done more to defend 
T, but I can see there were concerns about the wording of the terms and conditions that the 
customer had signed which said what changes would be non-refundable. 
There was also the timing of the Covid-19 pandemic which could have been seen as 
unavoidable and extraordinary and therefore in line with the suppliers terms and conditions 
- which said customers would be entitled to a full refund. Therefore, its unlikely that Barclays 
would have been confident it could defend T and win the case if it went to arbitration. I think 
this was reasonable.   
The partners also say that Barclays shouldnt have refunded the customer and therefore 
taken the money from the business, as the third-party supplier had already arranged to 
refund what the customer was entitled to. However, the partners have signed the merchant 
services agreement with Barclays which means the bank can take money from T for any 
payments that its made under the Scheme. As this is in line with the Scheme rules, I cant 
reasonably say Barclays has done anything wrong. 
I recognise that this has been a difficult time for T and that it says its customer has claimed 
for a refund they werent entitled to. However, that would be relevant to a dispute between 
those two parties, its not relevant to Ts dispute with Barclays, so Im unable to consider this 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman