DRN-3125207
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim she made under her car insurance policy following an accident. 
Miss M is being legally represented by Mr M in her complaint. 
What happened
In 2016 Miss M was unfortunately involved in an incident with another driver who was 
uninsured. She contacted Admiral to make a claim for repairs to her car which was damaged 
in the incident. 
Miss M didnt think it fair she should have to pay her excess as she said she wasnt at fault 
for the incident, so she didnt go ahead with her claim and Admiral therefore didnt arrange 
for her car to be repaired. 
Miss M took separate legal action against the other driver who eventually accepted liability 
for the accident in 2019. The court made a decree against the other driver, but they were 
unable to satisfy it. So, the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) settled Miss Ms personal injury 
claim through its mechanism to provide compensation to the victims of accidents by 
uninsured drivers. 
As Miss M held a car insurance policy with Admiral at the time of the event, the MIB wouldnt 
cover her claim for damage to her vehicle. So Miss M contacted Admiral and asked it to 
settle her claim for vehicle damage caused by the incident. 
Admiral has asked for an engineers report or alternative evidence to support Miss Ms
claim for the repairs. Miss M provided an estimate from 2016 and receipts from 2018 for two 
amounts which she says relate to the repairs. Miss M had traded her car in at a dealership in 
2018. She says she didnt get the repairs done to the car  but instead paid the cost for the 
dealership to do this after the trade in. 
Admiral says the receipts dont prove the insured loss which Miss M is claiming for. It 
contacted the dealership that arranged the trade in of Miss Ms car to ask for evidence, but it 
didnt provide any. It told Admiral it could provide further information to Miss M directly if she 
requested it from them. 
In February 2021 Admiral told Mr M in a call that it would deal with the claim for repairs. But 
a few days later it reverted back to its original position which was that it needed further 
evidence. 
Mr M raised a complaint on behalf of Miss M. He said that Admiral would not fix Miss Ms car 
at the time of the damage and left her with a damaged car, which she persevered with for 
two years. He said it recorded the claim as a fault claim which affected Miss Ms No Claims 
Bonus (NCB) and increased her premiums as a result. Mr M said the amount Miss M paid 
when she traded in her car in 2018 as a result of accidental related damage to her vehicle 
was £1,711.38. 
Mr M says his understanding of the way the MIB uninsured drivers agreement works is that 
when a decree has been obtained via a court process in a case with an uninsured driver, the 
property damage element of the claim falls to be paid by the clients own insurer. Having 
gone through the court process and obtained a decree, Mr M believes Miss M isnt obliged to 
go through a process of having to persuade Admiral to meet her claim. 
Mr M says Admirals agreement to pay Miss Ms claim for the damages to her car in 
February 2021 was significant. He said its decision not to stand by what it had agreed 
caused considerable distress. He said Admiral had caused delays in dealing with the claim.
In June 2021 Admiral replied to the complaint. It accepted that it had caused some delays in 
its correspondence with Mr M since October 2020, and it had provided a poor service in the 
way it had communicated with Mr M on behalf of Miss M. It agreed it had changed its stance 
in a call in February 2021, but said this did not represent Admirals position. 
For the distress and inconvenience its poor service had caused, it paid £100 compensation. 
For the delay in handling the complaint, it paid £25.
Admiral said that while its service had fallen short at times, it had made it clear on several 
occasions that it needed evidence to support the costs being claimed for and that this 
request wasnt unreasonable. 
Admiral said it doesnt wish to obstruct Miss Ms claim  and it doesnt dispute the journey 
Miss M undertook to reach this point. But it says it cannot meet the claim without evidence of 
Miss Ms loss as a result of the repairs caused by the incident. 
Admiral confirmed that Miss Ms policy hadnt been affected by the claim as it hadnt been 
recorded as a fault claim and Miss Ms NCB hasnt been impacted. It said it was Miss Ms 
decision not to have her car repaired sooner under a claim with Admiral, in line with the 
terms of the policy. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at Miss Ms complaint. Our investigator 
thought Admiral had acted reasonably and that the compensation award was sufficient to 
resolve the complaint. He thought it reasonable for Miss M to look to obtain the required 
evidence from the dealership  as Admiral had tried but couldnt do so on her behalf. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he says this service has ignored the court decree in Miss Ms 
favour. Admiral didnt follow the correct procedure when dealing with the claim. He suggests 
we obtain a signed mandate from Miss M and authorise the dealership to provide the 
information Admiral require  but hes not sure the dealership will provide this. He asks what 
more Miss M can do to prove her claim. He is unhappy that it seems more weight has been 
given to the receipts Miss M has provided than the court decree. 
Mr M says Miss M is very unhappy that we have relied on Admirals notes of what was 
discussed when Miss M first contacted it about the incident. He says Miss M doesnt agree 
this is an accurate description of what happened and wants us to further investigate. 
He wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The MIB helps people involved in road accidents where the normal routes to compensation 
might not exist or be difficult to trace, such as victims of uninsured or untraced drivers. 
MIB's obligation is to handle claims in accordance with 'The Uninsured Drivers' Agreements' 
and 'The Untraced Drivers' Agreements'. They are restricted to paying compensation in 
circumstances where compulsory motor insurance should have been in place. 
This means the MIB can pay compensation for property damage, death or injury arising from 
the use of a motor vehicle on a road or a public place in accordance with the Road Traffic 
Act 1988. They will also consider claims for vehicle and property damage where 
compensation cant be claimed from another source, such as an insurance company. This 
means that if the innocent party has fully comprehensive cover with their own insurer the 
MIB will not deal with their vehicle damage claim (which is an insured loss) but will deal with 
their personal injury claim (which is an uninsured loss).
Mr M is of the view that Admiral should meet Miss Ms claim for the damage to her vehicle 
on the evidence it has  particularly in light of the fact that the claim for personal injury costs 
was dealt with by the MIB. 
I appreciate that Mr M is very unhappy about the delays caused by Admiral  and the 
turnaround in their stance in February 2021. Mr M feels we havent given enough weight to 
this part of Miss Ms complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Admiral did change its position in a lengthy call with Mr M. But a few 
days later it reverted to the position it had taken from the outset  that it would consider Miss 
Ms claim upon reasonable proof of her loss for vehicle damage in the incident. But given 
that their position  aside from this error which they acknowledge  remains that they need 
evidence that Mrs M paid for repairs as described, and Mr M doesnt agree this is 
reasonable or can be met, I dont think any delays caused by Admiral has ultimately made a 
difference to the outcome. For this reason I think the compensation award Admiral has paid 
for the distress and inconvenienced caused by its poor service and delay is fair.
I understand Mr Ms view that Admiral  and this service hasnt given proper consideration to 
the court decree. However, the decree makes no direction to Admiral to take any action in 
respect of Miss Ms losses. 
Insurers are entitled to require policyholders to prove their claims, in other words to show 
they have suffered the loss they are claiming. The receipt payments provided by Miss M are 
for two amounts totalling £1,711.38  but these are card receipts as opposed to information 
from the dealership and there is no breakdown or explanation attached to them. So the 
receipts dont show that they are payments as described by Miss M. Until Admiral can 
receive satisfactory evidence of Miss Ms insured loss, it isnt obliged to settle her claim. 
I think Admiral has treated Miss M  in this respect  as it would any other customer in the 
same position. As Ive said, the onus is on the customer to prove their claim and its not clear 
to me why Miss M hasnt provided Admiral with the information it requires. The fault and the 
circumstances of the incident arent in dispute. But I dont think its unreasonable of Admiral 
to ask for the evidence it has. 
Mr M says Admiral should have repaired Miss Ms car at the time of the incident. And he 
says Miss M doesnt agree with Admirals account of what happened when she contacted it. 
In an email to Admiral dated 16 June 2021, Mr M wrote:Our clients position is that when she called you at the outset about this incident, she 
knew very early (because the police told her) that the other driver was uninsured. 
She told you that her vehicle had been damaged and you advised her that you did 
not cover damage caused by an uninsured driver. She had also paid an additional 
premium for legal assistance. However, you told her that she could not have any 
legal assistance. You told her that if she claimed on her own policy, it would be 
subject to her excess, affect her no claims bonus and her premiums in the future. 
She understandably did not want to do that, her not having caused the incident.
From Admirals notes, there isnt anything to suggest it refused to deal with Miss Ms claim 
for repairs when she reported the incident. Its notes show that it referred Miss M to solicitors 
to assist with recovering her uninsured losses. But it seems  from what Miss M told Mr M   
that Miss M didnt want to proceed with her claim for repairs as she was unhappy with the 
terms and conditions that would apply under the policy if she did. I dont think this is the 
same as saying Admiral refused to deal with the repairs to Miss Ms car at the time. So I 
dont think Admiral acted unreasonably when Miss M reported the incident to it. 
If or until an insurer can recover its costs in full from a third party, the claim can be settled as 
a non- fault claim.
Admiral hasnt declined the claim. It accepts the course of events that has led to the point 
where Miss M is to claim under her policy. And I think its compensation of £125 for the 
distress and inconvenience its poor service and delay caused is fair and reasonable in this 
case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but this means Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman