DRN-2474275
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank plc failed to deal with a refund to his account in a timely 
manner.
What happened
Mr A had a credit card account with Lloyds. He closed the account in June 2018. In January 
2019 a merchant sent a refund to the closed account. The refund related to a transaction 
which had been debited from the account in January 2018. The payment was for flights 
which were cancelled.
Mr A contacted Lloyds about this matter in January 2019. He explained the situation to 
Lloyds. He was told he would have to go to a branch of Lloyds to produce identification 
before anything could be done. This was because he had no active accounts with Lloyds.
Mr A says he attended a branch of Lloyds at this time and completed the verification and 
identification checks. He went back to the branch on 20 February 2019 and provided an 
email from the merchant which detailed when the refund had been made to the account. The 
email stated that if the account had been closed the money would go into a holding account 
at the bank the account had been held with. It said the bank would be able to issue a cheque 
for the refund amount.
Mr A heard nothing further. He contacted Lloyds again on 9 March 2019 and was told he 
needed to send a letter setting out the request for the refund. Mr A sent a letter to Lloyds 
dated 11 March 2019. He heard nothing further. So, he sent a recorded delivery letter to 
Lloyds dated 15 April 2019, in which he complained about the service hed received.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It arranged for the money to be transferred from its 
suspense account into Mr As bank account. This was completed a few days later. It said it 
had no record of receiving Mr As letter dated 11 March until the complaint had been 
opened. It apologised for the delay and for the conflicting information Mr A had been given. 
Hed been told by the branch that the money wouldve been sent back to the merchant. But 
the telephone advisers had told him the money would be held in a suspense account. It 
offered to pay him £75 by way of compensation for what had happened. It also agreed to 
cover any costs involved in bringing the matter to its attention.
Mr A didnt accept what Lloyds had offered to do. He said hed intended to use the funds to 
make a contribution to his pension policy. But, because of the delay he hadnt been able to 
do that and as a result hed lost out on tax relief and also the potential growth of his pension 
funds. So, he referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that he couldnt comment on the claim Mr 
A had made about losing out on his pension policy. He said Mr A hadnt raised this with 
Lloyds and it hadnt had the opportunity to respond to the point. But he did think that Lloyds 
had delayed processing the refund and hadnt been proactive enough. So, he thought Lloyds 
should pay Mr A £125 in addition to the £75 it had already offered by way of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed raised the issue about his pension policy on 30 April. He 
thought Lloyds had been given the opportunity to consider this when dealing with his 
complaint. He also thought the amount of compensation suggested by our investigator was 
insufficient for what had happened.
Our investigator considered these points. He listened to calls made by Mr A with Lloyds prior 
to the date of its final response letter. He said Mr A hadnt mentioned he needed the funds 
for his pension policy during these calls. And he hadnt mentioned it in his letters to Lloyds 
either. He said Mr A had made some financial decisions whilst waiting for the refund. So, he 
wasnt satisfied Lloyds was solely responsible for the missed pension contribution. He felt 
that £200 (in total) was fair and reasonable compensation for what happened.
Mr A didnt agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the sequence of events in this case. The refund was processed by the 
merchant in February 2019. Mr A went to a branch of Lloyds with details of the refund on 20 
February.  Hed previously provided documents to confirm his identity and address. So, at 
that date, I think Lloyds had all of the information it needed to pay the refund to Mr A. The 
moneys were held in its suspense account. 
I can see that the refund wasnt processed until after Mr A complained by letter dated 15 
April 2019. So, Im satisfied Lloyds delayed the payment by around two months.
Lloyds has accepted this. Although it says it didnt get a letter Mr A sent to it in March 2019, I 
dont think that changes the position. It shouldve paid the refund shortly after 20 February. 
Lloyds offered to pay Mr A £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay. 
Our investigator thought this wasnt enough. Mr A had to contact Lloyds on several 
occasions after 20 February by telephone and by letter before it processed the refund. So, 
he thought £200 (in total) was fair and reasonable for what happened. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he wouldve used the money from the refund to make a 
contribution to his personal pension. Hed missed out on tax relief as a result and he said 
hed also missed out on the investment return hed have obtained if this money had been 
added to his pension.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said here. He says he raised the issue about his pension 
with Lloyds on 30 April 2019, when it called him to discuss its final response letter. In that 
letter, in addition to offering him £75, it had agreed to cover any costs hed incurred as a 
result of what had happened. But this was some time after hed first raised his complaint with 
Lloyds and after it had issued its final response letter. 
If Mr A had intended to use the moneys to contribute to his pension, Id have expected him 
to mention this in the correspondence he sent to Lloyds after 20 February. He didnt do that. 
After he wrote to Lloyds on 11 March 2019, he didnt contact it again until 14 April 2019. If he 
needed the proceeds from the refund to make a contribution to his pension, hed have to 
have done that before 5 April. So, I think its likely he wouldve contacted Lloyds again before 
that date - if hed been anxious to make the pension contribution before the end of the tax year. If hed done that Lloyds wouldve been given a further opportunity to process the 
refund in time to enable him to make the contribution to his pension. So, Im not persuaded, 
on balance, that Lloyds should have to compensate him for any loss he says he suffered as 
a result of not making a contribution to his pension.
Having considered everything here, although I agree there was a delay processing the 
refund payment, I think that in addition to the £75 Lloyds has already offered to pay Mr A, it 
should pay him a further £125 (being £200 in total) by way of compensation. I think thats fair 
and reasonable compensation for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc. I now require it 
to take the following action:
Pay Mr A £200 (in total) by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced as a result of what happened. Lloyds Bank plc may deduct from this 
sum any amounts it has already paid in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman