DRN-4018795
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
overdraft charges and interest to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss Z held an account with Lloyds. In August 2016 Miss Z was approved for a £200 
overdraft. This was increased to £1,100 in October 2016 with a renewal and review date set 
for one years time. Miss Zs statements show she spent up to the top of her limit straight 
away and from November 2016 stopped receiving a salary from her employment and started 
receiving benefits. 
From around February 2017 Miss Z stopped using the account and just credited her account 
with enough to meet the overdraft charges and stayed within her overdraft limit until June 
2017. Following which Miss Zs account entered collections and Lloyds suspended all further 
overdraft charges on 7 September 2017.
Miss Z got in touch with Lloyds on 26 October 2017 and notified it of her financial difficulties. 
Lloyds placed a 30 day hold on the account and waived pending charges. Following this 
Lloyds arranged a repayment plan which was reviewed regularly and continually extended it 
until May 2019 when Miss Z was granted a refinance loan which paid back her overdraft. 
In January 2018 Miss Z made Lloyds aware she was suffering with mental health conditions. 
On being notified of this Miss Zs account was referred to its customer priority team to 
ensure Miss Z didnt have to explain her vulnerabilities each time she called.
Miss Z complained to Lloyds about the charges applied to both her overdraft and loan and 
support shed received. Lloyds upheld Miss Zs complaint regarding the service she received 
when complaining and compensated her £30. It did not uphold her complaint regarding the 
support shed received from Lloyds and the overdraft charges applied.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Zs concerns and reached the conclusion Lloyds 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss Z unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss Z disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Z has made a number of complaint points to our service  I hope that she wont take it 
as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an 
informal dispute resolution service and my decision concentrates on the overdraft element of 
her complaint and the charges applied to her account. Her other complaint point regarding 
her loan will be dealt with separately. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Zs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Miss Z has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the charges 
applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long they should go on for before taking further action 
such as defaulting an account. 
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss Z if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Miss Zs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Miss Z was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Miss Z fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Lloyds did treat Miss Z unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Zs statements I havent seen enough to suggest 
that Lloyds ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior 
to it transferring her account to collections following Miss Z exceeding her overdraft limit in 
June 2017. 
Miss Z may argue not seeing or maintaining a credit balance was in itself an indication that 
she was struggling. But prior to Miss Zs overdraft limit being increased in October 2016 Miss 
Z always saw a healthy credit balance and was receiving a regular salary. It was only after 
her overdraft limit was increased her circumstances changed (losing her job) that Miss Z 
spent up to the top of her overdraft limit and stopped using the account only crediting 
enough to cover the overdraft charges. 
So, in these circumstances and prior to Lloyds being made aware of Miss Zs change in 
circumstances between May 2016 and October 2017 I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Zs 
account was being used before her overdraft limit was increased and prior to the renewal 
date. 
Lloyds took action as soon as Miss Z went over her limit sending her account to collections 
and suspending charges in September 2017 - before she notified it of her financial difficulties 
and before the renewal date of her overdraft. And once Miss Z did make Lloyds aware of her 
financial difficulties it waived pending charges and continued to suspend charges while it 
worked with her to set up an affordable repayment plan which it continually reviewed. This is 
all in line with how Id expect a business to treat a customer once it was aware of their 
financial difficulties.
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Lloyds treated Miss Z unfairly or 
unreasonably when she notified it she was in financial difficulty. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss Z  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman