DRN-3284960
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he was sold in 1984. He believes 
that his mortgage lender sold him the policy, which means that NRAM Limited is now 
responsible for the advice he received. Mr I is unhappy that NRAM has not accepted liability 
for the sale and recommended that he approach the product provider to pursue his 
complaint. 
What happened
NRAM responded to Mr Is complaint and explained that the product provider was unable to 
provide any material information about the sale of the policy, due to the amount of time that 
had elapsed since Mr I surrendered it. As such, it was unable to confirm that it was the 
selling agent and even if it had been, there were no details about the policy that would 
enable an investigation into the mis-selling to be completed. 
Mr I wasnt happy with NRAMs response and asked this service to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the information on the complaint file and asked NRAM 
to provide a copy of the product providers correspondence regarding the sale of the policy. 
It did so and this showed that the product providers records indicated that the policy was 
sold by a firm of independent financial advisers (IFA). Our investigator provided a copy of 
this information to Mr I and explained that as NRAM didnt sell the policy, we were unable to 
find NRAM had done anything wrong. 
Mr I didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that the mortgage and endowment 
policy were sold together by NRAM and he was not told that it was selling the endowment on 
behalf of someone else. Our investigator reiterated that the information from the product 
provider showed that it was not NRAM that sold the policy. 
Subsequently, Mr I provided a copy of a letter from the product provider dated 1990. This 
didnt mention any involvement of NRAM or any other financial adviser. Mr I said that he had 
a mortgage contract with NRAM, which required him to have an endowment policy. As such, 
he considered that NRAM was equally responsible for the sale of the endowment policy, 
whether or not it sold the policy directly or was working in partnership with or on behalf of 
another financial business.
Our investigator considered what Mr I had to say, but he was not persuaded that NRAM 
could be considered to be responsible for the suitability of the sale of the policy. Mr I said 
that the mortgage and policy were sold in a branch of the lender and he wasnt told about the 
lender acting on behalf of anther business. He reiterated that he believed NRAM should be 
considered responsible for the sale as it was a requirement of the mortgage.
As agreement couldnt be reached with the parties, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy in question here was sold in 1984 and surrendered in 1991, which means there is 
very little information about the sale available. The product provider has confirmed what little 
information it has, shows that the policy was sold by an IFA. It is the selling agent of a policy 
that is responsible for whether a policy was appropriate for the policyholder. 
While Mr I considers that the mortgage lender has some responsibility for the sale because it 
required an endowment policy to be in place as a condition of the mortgage, that is not the 
case. It is the financial adviser who sells an investment that is responsible for ensuring that it 
is appropriate for the individual its being sold to. Although the lender may have required the 
borrower to take out a repayment vehicle for the interest-only mortgage, which most 
commonly would have been an endowment policy, that doesnt make it responsible for the 
sale of such a policy. If the financial adviser had determined that an endowment was not 
appropriate for Mr I, then a sale wouldnt have happened, and the mortgage wouldnt have 
been advanced on the basis that it was.
I note that Mr I remembers both the mortgage and the endowment being sold together. He 
has later said that was in a branch of the lender. At the time of the sale, the financial 
services industry wasnt regulated. This means that the arrangements for financial advice 
were not as straightforward as they are now. While it would have been unusual for an IFA to 
be working out of the offices of a lender, it was not unheard of when the lender was unable 
to provide a financial adviser itself. Alternatively, it was not unusual for IFAs to work out of 
estate agents offices to sell both mortgage and linked life and investment products. 
Whichever the arrangement was in this case, it doesnt make a difference, as the evidence 
shows that the lender wasnt responsible for the advice Mr I is unhappy with.
Given the information provided by the product provider, I am unable to find that NRAM is 
responsible for any concerns Mr I has about the sale of the endowment policy, as it was not 
responsible for its sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 
31 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman