DRN-2227515
The complaint
B, a company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has mismanaged its business 
account. In particular it refused to extend the companys overdraft facility or offer alternative 
financial support, with the result that it had to cease trading.
Bs complaint is brought on its behalf by its director, Mr B, who is also its shareholder and 
has provided a guarantee for its liabilities. To resolve the complaint, Mr B would like the bank 
to: write off all business debts; pay compensation for loss of profits of around £60,000 and 
loss of earnings of around £40,000; pay compensation for the distress caused to him and his 
family and for his time; and refund bank charges totalling some £10,000.
What happened
B had an account with NatWest, with an overdraft facility that was due to expire in March 
2019. For most of the time from about May 2018 Bs account had been overdrawn, and by 
March 2019 the overdraft had risen to around £15,000. 
NatWest declined to renew Bs overdraft facility and placed the account with its specialised 
business management unit. It also declined to provide a loan to repay the overdraft  in part 
because of a loan owed to another lender. Mr B complained that a new loan would have 
been cheaper than the existing one, so the bank should have approved it. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks decisions. B ceased trading soon afterwards and in June 
2019 NatWest concluded that the banking relationship had broken down and wrote to Mr B 
to say that it was closing Bs accounts. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She concluded that NatWest was entitled to review the overdraft when it did and 
that it wasnt obliged to extend it or to offer further credit. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he referred this complaint to this service, Mr B indicated that he wasnt complaining on 
behalf of B but was doing so in his personal capacity, since the consequences of the banks 
actions primarily affected him. Our investigator took the view however that the complaint was 
one which ought properly to be brought by B. I will therefore address that issue before I 
discuss the merits of the complaint. 
Mr B is the sole director and shareholder of B, as well as its employee. Hes also guaranteed 
its liabilities. I accept therefore that the banks actions have had a significant impact on him 
and his personal finances. I dont under-estimate the effect on him.
However, the issue of who is the proper complainant here doesnt depend on who might 
ultimately suffer any loss as a result of the banks actions; it depends on who has the 
necessary relationship with the bank that gives this service the power to consider the 
complaint. The relationship here is that of customer, and the banks customer in this case is 
B; it was Bs overdraft facility which the bank decided not to renew.
This doesnt mean of course that the banks decision had no impact on Mr B and I accept 
that it did  both financially and emotionally. But I have no power to make an award in favour 
of Mr B in the context of a complaint brought on behalf of B, his company. Nor can he bring a 
complaint to this this service in his capacity of director, shareholder or employee of B, or as 
the guarantor of its obligations under a guarantee entered into before 1 April 2019.
I turn therefore to the merits of Bs complaint. However, I have little to add to what the 
investigator has already said in this case. It was primarily for NatWest to decide whether or 
not it wanted to continue to provide B with an overdraft facility; it was also for the bank to 
decide whether it was prepared to provide it with some other type of borrowing. As long as 
commercial decisions of that nature are reached for legitimate reasons, this service wont 
usually interfere with them. I see no reason to do so here. 
Mr B has suggested that the bank could have reviewed the overdraft facility much earlier 
than it did. I dont agree however that it was required to do so. It was within its rights to make 
its decision based on the state of the account at the time the overdraft facility expired, rather 
than several weeks or months before. Your text here
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman