DRN-4350742
The complaint
Ms G complains Sainsbury's Bank Plc doesnt automatically increase her savings rate.
What happened
Ms G holds a variable rate cash ISA with Sainsbury's. Ms G saw the Bank of England base 
rate had increased and thought her ISA would too.
Ms G realised her rate hadnt increased automatically, even though she holds a variable rate 
account. Ms G rang Sainsbury's and it increased the rate on her account.
Ms G felt its unfair Sainsbury's doesnt automatically increase the rate on her account when 
the base rate increases. Instead, Ms G was having to check when the rate was increased 
and contact Sainsbury's to benefit from the higher rate. Ms G complained to Sainsbury's.
Sainsbury's responded to say just because Ms G holds a variable rate account this doesnt 
mean the rate will always increase to match the base rate. Sainsbury's said it was Ms Gs 
responsibility to check for higher rates.
Unhappy with this answer, Ms G brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Ms Gs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought it was unfair Ms G was having to call in each time to increase the 
rate on her account. The investigator thought Sainsbury's should backdate any interest rises 
to the date they came into effect and pay £100 compensation.
Ms G accepted the assessment, but Sainsbury's didnt. Sainsbury's said the account 
automatically increased in rate, not just when Ms G called in. Sainsbury's said its terms and 
conditions explained Ms G may not get the same rate as new customers.
Sainsbury's said it uses it commercial judgement to increase, or not increase rates. 
Sainsbury's asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, intending to not uphold Ms Gs complaint, and in it I said:
Sainsbury's was, initially, inconsistent with its explanations around how and why the rate on 
Ms Gs account increased. Sainsburys didnt, I think, fully explain its processes in response 
to the investigators assessment.
It also wasnt very clear why Ms G was able to keep the same account number, which would 
indicate her account hadnt changed, and benefit from the higher rate once she called in.
I spoke to Sainsburys about its decision making around the increase in rates and why it 
appeared Ms G had to call in to benefit from higher rates on her account.
Sainsburys explained it releases new issues of its variable rate cash ISA when it decides to 
offer new rates. This applies to higher and lower rates. More recently the base rate has been 
steadily increasing, so Sainsburys new issues have higher rates.
Rather than number these new issues of the account, Sainsburys uses the date of release 
of the new account to indicate its a new issue.
Sainsburys has explained Ms G could apply online for a new account. This would involve a 
new ISA declaration and an ISA transfer. Sainsburys would then open a new variable rate 
cash ISA, with a new account number.
Sainsburys also said consumers often didnt then close off their old ISA accounts, so 
consumers end up with multiple old issues of the same account with nothing in. This can be 
confusing for consumers.
Sainsburys explained existing consumers can call and it will redesignate their account to the 
new issue. This avoids the need for a new application, forms and old, empty accounts left 
behind. This seems a reasonable thing for Sainsburys to do.
And this explains why Ms Gs account number doesnt change even though she now has a 
newer issue of the account.
Sainsburys says Ms Gs been able to redesignate her account nine times in a little over a 
year. If Sainsburys didnt offer the option of redesignating the account Ms G would have had 
to complete nine applications and potentially be left with lots of empty, unused accounts.
It's quite usual for a business to offer new issues of savings accounts. And Sainsburys 
allows existing consumers to open the new issues and transfer their ISA across, to benefit 
from the higher rate. I think this is a fair thing for Sainsburys to do.
Its clear Ms G is looking for the best rates for her savings. Ms Gs been able to move to the 
newer issue several times, and often this is soon after the issues are released.
Sainsburys says its Ms Gs responsibility to look for the rates, and Id agree. If another bank 
offers better rates, and Ms G see this and decides to transfer there, I wouldnt say 
Sainsburys is at fault for offering a lower rate.
I think the same goes for newer issues of an account at the same bank.
And Ms Gs Sainsburys variable rate ISA would automatically increase in rate had she not 
called in and redesignated her account so quickly. Whilst these increases dont match the 
newer issues, the rates do increase.
Because of this I think its reasonable for Sainsburys to call the account a variable rate 
account. And this means I think Sainsburys is abiding by its terms for the account.
I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong in the way its released new issues of the 
variable rate cash ISA. Because of this, I dont think it needs to backdate any interest or pay 
any compensation.
Ms G says some of her other savings providers automatically increase the rates on their 
savings accounts and this matches the rise in the base rate.I cant comment on what other providers do, or force Sainsburys to adopt the same policies 
and processes as other providers.
Responses to my provisional decision
Sainsburys responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision.
Ms G responded to say she wanted proof the interest rate on her account would have 
increased had she not moved accounts. Ms G said the interest rate had risen 14 times and 
wanted to see the variable rate ISA had done the same.
Ms G said other banks websites show the rates available. And other banks give an issue 
number and dont rely on the date the account was opened. Ms G also feels the way 
Sainsburys displays the rates is misleading.
Ms G wondered whether this service was here to protect consumers.
Ms G also said the Chancellor had threatened regulatory action if banks didnt pass on 
interest rate rises to savers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Ms G screenshots of the Sainsburys website showing where rates have increased for 
older issues of the variable rate ISA. Ms G responded to say these rates werent increased 
each time the base rate rose or by as much as the increases.
Ms Gs correct, but it doesnt change the fact Sainsburys has increased the interest rate for 
older variable rate ISAs. I said in my provisional decision I was satisfied Ms Gs rate would 
have increased and I still am.
Ms G says other websites are clearer and use numbers for issues, not dates.
Ive looked very carefully at Sainsburys website, and what it says. Sainsburys titles each 
account, in bold, with Rates for accounts opened from and then the applicable date.
Below this, not in bold, it says Rates effective from and the applicable date. For newer 
issues the two dates are the same.
Ms G says the Rates effective from statement might be misleading for consumers, making 
them think their older issue ISA has the better rate.
I dont agree. I think the first thing someone would read is the top line, and its in bold. I think 
its clear the rates below apply to accounts opened after a certain date.
For earlier issues, the Rates for accounts opened from also has a to indicating there are 
later issues. I think the website is clear in laying out what rates apply to which accounts 
dependent on when they were opened.
I cant comment on any other banks websites, and whether these are clearer. Ms G says 
Sainsburys website is misleading, but I dont agree.Ms G said my decision doesnt seem to protect consumers. My role isnt to be a consumer 
champion or necessarily protect consumers. My role is to decide if Sainsburys, in the 
specific circumstances of Ms Gs complaint, has treated her fairly.
It seems Ms G would like to protect other consumers as part of her complaint. But I can only 
look at how Sainsburys has treated Ms G.
I think Sainsburys has treated Ms G fairly. Ms Gs an existing customer and Sainsburys has 
allowed her to benefit from the newer issues as theyre released by redesignating her 
account via a phone call.
Theres an alternative to this, online applications with drawbacks such as multiple open 
accounts, so I think asking Ms G to call in when she sees new rates is a reasonable thing for 
Sainsburys to do.
Ms G has called in several times, and shes been able to redesignate her account several 
times, with the associated increase in interest rate.
Ms G has mentioned the threat of further regulation if interest rate rises arent passed on to 
consumers. But Ms Gs been able to benefit from increased rates offered by Sainsburys.
This has involved some work from Ms G, to call Sainsburys and redesignate her account, 
but I cant agree Sainsburys isnt offering higher rates on newer issues of its variable rate 
ISA as the base rate increases.
And the threat of further regulation hasnt meant new rules for banks to follow, so I dont 
think Sainsburys has done anything wrong on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman