DRN-1563980
The complaint
P - a limited company - applied for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Charter Court Financial 
Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages and was unhappy that a nil valuation figure 
was given.
The complaint has been brought by Mr M in his capacity as a director of P and any reference 
to Mr M in this decision should be taken in that context.
What happened
Mr M applied through a mortgage broker for a BTL mortgage with Precise Mortgages. The 
broker answered yes to the statement I confirm that all applicants, the security property and 
the loan details conform to Precises lending guidelines with a link directly beneath that would 
take the broker to the current guidelines.
A valuation was carried out and the report says, I quote:
It is in a social block where there is limited owner/private occupation. Therefore, in the 
first instance the property is not considered suitable for a mortgage as the units in the 
block are not predominantly owner/privately occupied as required under the Lenders 
criteria.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about the surveyor, only about 
Precise Mortgages acts or omissions; and having considered the complaint he thought 
Precise Mortgages hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Precise Mortgages doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services 
of a surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. Precise Mortgages isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual 
surveyor or any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
This means I cant deal with Mr Ms complaint that theres no evidence to suggest the 
property is ex-local authority and the block isnt predominantly privately owned as that came 
from the surveyor and Precise Mortgages is entitled to rely on that professional opinion. If 
Mr M had evidence to prove that the statement from the surveyor was wrong then he could 
have provided that to Precise Mortgages so it could be referred to the surveyor, but without 
proof to the contrary Precise Mortgages will rely on the surveyors professional opinion. 
Precise Mortgages is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant 
consider complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can 
consider against Precise Mortgages is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors, and having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I understand Mr M is confused by the fact the valuation report provided a nil valuation figure. 
As the report was only intended to be used for mortgage purposes then the surveyor 
correctly valued the property as nil because the property didnt meet Precise Mortgages 
lending criteria. That doesnt mean the property has no value, just that it has no value to 
Precise Mortgages as it doesnt represent suitable security under its lending criteria. Thats 
fairly standard practice in the industry, so not at all unusual.
If Mr M had instead opted for a survey for his purposes as well as the mortgage valuation 
then there would have been two separate reports; one for Mr M with a valuation figure 
combined with a full report about the propertys condition, and a second one for Precise 
Mortgages with the nil valuation figure and the note that it doesnt meet lending criteria.
The valuation fee was spent when the valuation was carried out as Precise Mortgages had 
to pay the surveyor. Im therefore satisfied the fee was correctly charged, and isnt 
refundable to Mr M.
Mr M raised a new issue in his response to our investigator, saying hes not had an invoice 
despite numerous requests. We can only deal with the complaint that was originally brought 
to us (and that was dealt with by the business). If Mr M remains unhappy about that point 
then hell need to raise it directly with Precise Mortgages as a new complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman