DRN-3583483
The complaint
Mr P says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) is responsible for poor 
administration and handling of his personal pension arrangements. Specifically, it didnt act 
on his instruction to increase his pension contributions and it subsequently failed in its duty 
of care to him for the security of his personal information. He says the first issue caused him 
financial detriment and the second concern, worry and embarrassment.
What happened
Theres broad agreement about the chronology of events in this case.
On 20 May 2020 Mr P returned completed forms for Prudential to start taking monthly 
contributions of £500 for his pension plan. Prudential wrote to him on 26 May 2020 to 
confirm it had actioned the instruction and his payments would start from 6 July 2020.
In March 2021 Mr P realised no payments had been taken from his account. So, on 6 April 
2021, he called Prudential to make a complaint. It acknowledged his complaint on 12 April 
2021. There was some to and fro between the parties until Prudential provided a final 
response to him on 7 May 2021.
Prudential upheld Mr Ps case and concluded hed lost investment growth that wouldve 
accrued to his plan between July 2020 to April 2021 of around £170. It said if he paid the 
missed contributions into the plan it would make good the loss. It also offered him £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Subsequently Mr P was contacted by a third party, they told him Prudential had sent them 
his personal information in error. They contacted Prudential about it on 14 May 2021 and it 
asked them to destroy all copies of the information received. Mr P made contact with 
Prudential about the release of his personal information to another person on 17 May 2021. 
Prudential called him on 24 May 2021 to explain his concerns were being investigated. 
In a letter dated 11 June 2021, Prudential accepted it had made an error in sending Mr Ps 
information to another person. It said it was calculating redress for the data breach  later 
confirming an offer of £500. It also recommended he register for the CIFAS protective 
registration service as a precaution. This worked by placing a warning flag against his name 
as someone at risk from identity theft, to let other organisations know to pay close attention if 
his details were used to purchase products or services. Prudential was willing to cover the 
cost for 10 years (at a cost of £125).
On 8 July 2021 Prudential called Mr P to discuss his case. He explained he wasnt happy to 
add the premiums to his pension. He said the compensation of £500 for the failed premium 
contributions and a further £500 for the data breach was out of kilter  the latter being a far 
more serious issue. In a later call between the parties Mr P mentioned his online research 
had shown a minimum compensation award for complaints like his of about £2,000 and so 
he was unhappy with the total of £1,125 compensation being offered.
Prudential sent Mr P its final response to his complaints on 27 July 2021. It said it believed 
its total offer of £1,000 compensation and £125 for 10 years of CIFAS protective registration 
service cover was fair. Unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint to our Service on 28 October 
2021. He also referred the data breach incident to the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO).
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps case. He thought Prudential had recognised and 
apologised for the mistakes it had made. And that its offer to put things right was fair. Mr P 
disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a 
decision. This is the final stage of this Services dispute resolution process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Prudential Mr P. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Prudential. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Firstly, its clear Prudential are responsible for some serious errors. I tend to agree with Mr P 
when he says the data breach was potentially more serious than the failure to carry out his 
pension contribution instructions. 
Prudential was slow to inform Mr P about its error in handling his personal information  
indeed it was Mr P who initiated contact on the matter when he was told by a stranger what 
had happened. The way it handled the matter internally was flawed. So the significant 
concern Mr P expressed about his information being available to somebody else is 
understandable. And I recognise why he believes recent issues hes had with someone 
attempting a fraudulent benefit claim using his personal details could be linked to this issue.In responding to Mr P, Prudential did confirm some forms were accidentally sent to a third 
party of the same name on 4 May 2021. It said thered been a system error and that this had 
been corrected. To avoid repetition of the issue it added a marker to his account to ensure 
his address was double checked before any correspondence was issued. It said it had also 
updated its internal processes and procedures.
I understand why Mr P remains sceptical about what Prudential has reported about the data 
breach. He thinks it was trying to hide what happened. But Ive not seen evidence to support 
what he says. I think its more likely than not there were internal communication problems, 
which have been acknowledged.
Mr P has informed this Service of an attempt by a fraudster to use his data to make a benefit 
claim. I agree with the Investigator when he concluded it was unlikely to have been the result 
of the actions of the third party who had received his information in error. I say this because 
that individual made themselves know to him, and that doesnt seem consistent with the 
same third party using his data to commit fraud. Theres insufficient evidence about how the 
perpetrator obtained Mr Ps data to initiate the benefits claim.
Overall, Prudential apologised to Mr P. It informed him about what had happened and the 
measures it took to ensure the same mistake couldnt happen again. It recommended a 
precaution Mr P could take to try to safeguard his position, which it would pay for (although I 
appreciate his reticence in using such a service). And it offered him redress of £500 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused. 
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ps I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Prudentials actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here. But Ive also concluded its offer to put things right 
was sufficient in the circumstances.
I note Mr P has referred his case to the ICO. It regulates compliance with data protection 
laws in the UK. It has a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply 
with data protection laws and to fine them. But, unlike this Service, it doesnt have the power 
to award compensation to consumers whove suffered financial loss or have been caused 
distress by the way a financial business has handled their personal information.
Turning to the matter of Prudentials failure to carry out his pension contribution instruction. I 
think this matter is relatively clear cut. It has offered to make good any investment loss to 
him over the relevant period, subject to him now making the monthly contributions hed 
intended and which it failed to execute. I understand he doesnt want to do that. It follows 
that without him making any contributions to his pension he cant benefit from investment 
growth.
Thats not to say Prudential hasnt done anything wrong. But it has apologised. It has offered 
to return Mr P to the position hed be in now if it had got things right. And it offered him £500 
in recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused in respect of this matter. Again, Ive 
concluded its offer to put things right was sufficient.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should honour its offer of redress to Mr P.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman