DRN-4180349
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing 
(HSDL), didnt allow her to participate in a bond exchange that was being offered on one of 
her investments. She has lost income of £3,698.00.
What happened
Mrs D held a range of investments on HSDLs platform for ten years. This included EnQuest 
7% Notes 2022 (ENQ1) which was purchased via the platform in 2014. ENQ1 announced 
an offer in March 2022 to exchange to Notes offering a coupon of 9% and redeemable in 
October 2027. Those terms were favourable, so Mrs D wanted to participate but was unable 
to do so. 
Mrs D was told that HSDL had made a business decision not to offer the exchange 
opportunity as it said it was a complex instrument and deemed to be for qualified investors 
so not available to its retail customers such as Mrs D. 
A retail customer would have to pass an Execution Services Appropriate Test (ESAT) which 
could only be done after the new stock was added to its system and there was no guarantee 
of a positive outcome of that test. Its decision not to offer this corporate action was in line 
with its terms and conditions.
HSDL considered it had resolved the issue. But Mrs D remained dissatisfied and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
This complaint has been reviewed more than once but the final investigators opinion was 
that it should succeed. She said;
She was satisfied the bond was aimed at retail clients, in line with the regulators 
guidelines it simply being callable didnt make it a complex instrument. 
She didnt agree that HSDLs terms and conditions made clear that investors such as 
Mrs D had universally waived their rights to participate in corporate events. The term 
it had referred to  12.7  didnt apply in this case.
Mrs D had held ENQ1 on the platform since 2014 so it appeared the buy/onboarding 
restriction didnt apply at the time. HSDL didnt say when the restriction came into 
force and Mrs Ds online statement didnt indicate that it was restricted in any way. 
Mrs D had been able to participate in corporate events in ENQ1 in April 2015 and 
October 2020. Screenshots provided by Mrs D supported her position. 
The investigator hadnt seen any evidence that HSDL had made Mrs D aware of any 
changes nor did its terms explain the impact of restrictions. She didnt think that 
HSDL had treated Mrs D fairly and thought it was likely Mrs D would have transferred 
her shares elsewhere if she had known she couldnt participate in corporate actions 
that could benefit her financially. 
She thought the complaint should be put right and outlined the compensation 
recommendation and that HSDL should pay Mrs D £150 for the trouble and upset 
she had been caused. 
HSDL said it hadnt responded to requests for information as the additional opinion that had 
been given by the investigator had caused confusion. It didnt provide anything further. It 
said if an ombudsman requested further information it would provide it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
Im satisfied that both parties have been given enough opportunity to give me any 
submissions they wanted me to consider. Im also satisfied that I have sufficient information 
and evidence to reach a fair and reasonable decision. 
HSDL has referred to its terms and conditions in responding to the complaint. Mrs D used 
the nominee services of HSDL who held legal title of her assets on her behalf. When she 
became a client, she waived some of her rights as a shareholder to receive corporate action 
options in the same way as if she held the holding in her own name. 
HSDL said that term 12.7 explained that the nominee  HSDL  has commercial discretion in 
terms of the choices available in corporate actions such as the one Mrs D has complained 
about. Term 12.7 says;
12.7 The terms of a corporate action may require us to make a single election on 
behalf of our nominee company holding in the company. If it does, we may not be 
able to offer clients the same choices that would have been available if the shares in 
that company were held directly.
Where possible we will use reasonable efforts to give you an option which best  
approximates the offer available to shareholders but we cannot guarantee that this 
will match the option given by the company.
But I dont think HSDL has correctly applied the term in this instance. The term refers to 
HSDL having to make a single election on behalf of all its nominee clients. But that wouldnt 
have been the case here. Mrs D had wanted to participate in the corporate action, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that she couldnt have elected to do so independently of other 
nominee customers. The terms to participate in the corporate action were for a minimum of 
1,000 notes and Mrs D held over 9,000 so that wouldnt have been an issue. 
I think the crux of this complaint surrounds HSDLs decision to classify the Notes as too 
complex for its platform of retail investors and how it went about that. It is entitled to make 
that decision but any decision to do should be both fair and reasonable. And I dont think its 
decision was fairly applied in this case. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that EnQuests Exchange Offer Memorandum and Prospectus says the 
target market for the Notes is retail clients which suggests to me that EnQuest didnt 
envisage any additional complications with the Notes that would deem it to be too complex 
for a retail investor. Mrs D was classified by HSDL as a retail investor. And it thought ENQ2 was a complex 
instrument  it was callable  and therefore it wasnt right that it should be offered to its retail 
customers or be available on its platform. However, I note HSDL has said that the stock   
Mrs D already held, ENQ1, was also deemed as complex by HSDL and was buy restricted 
on its platform for that reason. 
HSDL provided us with a screenshot of the Key Investor Information Document for ENQ1 
and I see ENQ1 was also callable. So, if that is the point HSDL is making, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that there was any determinable difference about this point between the 
two issues of the Notes that would cause one to be available on its platform and the other 
not.  
And Mrs D had been able to buy the ENQ1 holding via HSDLs platform in 2014 which she 
has been retained ever since. So, there werent any restrictions on the Notes at the time. 
And since purchase Mrs D had taken part in two corporate actions. Mrs D told us that the 
previous ENQ exchange offer in 2015 was far more complex and presented greater risk than 
the 2022 one and HSDL never questioned her competence at the time. Mrs D had never 
been informed that she wasnt able to or wouldnt be able to participate in corporate actions 
in the future. 
If it had been the case that HSDL had changed its outlook on the complexity of the Notes  
which would have impacted on its customers ability to partake in any corporate action  
fairly and reasonably, I would have expected it to have informed Mrs D. 
And I would have expected that information to have been given prior to and independently of 
any corporate action notice which themselves are usually time sensitive. That would have 
allowed Mrs D to either take the ESAT test  if that is what was preventing her from 
participating in any corporate action  or have moved her holding to another platform if she 
wished to do so. That decision would then have been made in light of Mrs D having sufficient 
information to make a fully informed investment decision. 
Mrs D has told us there is nothing on her portfolio valuation/statements that suggests there 
is any difference in her holding of ENQ1 and the other investments she held. There was 
nothing to make her consider there was anything unusual about the holding or that 
restrictions may have applied. So, I cant see that Mrs D would have been alerted to any 
potential issue with her participating in a corporate action by any alternative means than 
being informed by HSDL of its change in position. And that change in position would impact 
on Mrs Ds ability to manage her investments as she chose to do within HSDLs term. 
From the information Mrs D has provided and the submissions she has made, they have led 
me to view Mrs D as a well informed and experienced investor. So, I dont think it would 
have been unlikely for her to have moved her holding away from HSDL or taken the ESAT 
test if she had been fully informed. Her previous behaviour suggests she was willing to 
participate in corporate actions. 
Taking all of the above into account, I am of the opinion that Mrs D has been disadvantaged 
by HSDLs actions. She wasnt able to participate in the corporate action. Ive not been given 
anything to show that HSDL made Mrs D aware of any changes to her ability to manage her 
holding of the Notes or that the terms referred to sufficiently explain any impact of the 
restrictions imposed. 
In conclusion, I dont think HSDL has been fair or reasonable in its treatment of Mrs D and 
she has lost out financially because of that. So, I uphold the complaint and HSDL needs to 
put the matter right. Putting things right
To put the matter right HSDL should;
Pay Mrs D the 1.5% exchange fee Mrs D would have received on the Notes she held 
in the ENQ1 bond.
Pay the 2% shortfall in annual interest between the original and new bond.
Pay 9% coupon interest on the Notes held by Mrs D for the additional period the new 
bond runs for. The consequential loss of interest should be paid according to the 
payment dates outlined in the ENQ1 and ENQ2 policies as the issuer may redeem 
the bond prior to the 2027 date of maturity. HSDL provide a payment schedule and 
share this with Mrs D so she knows when to expect payments.
Payments should be made to the wrapper the ENQ1 bond is held in, which I understand to 
be an ISA.
Mrs D has been caused trouble and upset by HSDL by not being able to participate in the 
corporate action. So HSDL should pay £150 Mrs D in recognition of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing, should put the matter right as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman