DRN-3790636
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance (UKI) 
handled a claim against her home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI include their agents. 
What happened
Mrs N reported a home emergency claim to UKI on 17 March 2022 around 9pm. She says 
water was leaking from pipes and causing damage. She says she got a text from UKI around 
9:30pm to say an engineer would attend the following day between 9am and 1pm. 
Mrs N didnt think the appointment was soon enough as further damage might occur. So, 
she contacted a local engineer who attended later that day  at around 9:35pm  and 
isolated the leak. This cost her £300. 
UKIs engineer attended the following day but didnt do anything as the leak had already 
been isolated by then by Mrs Ns own engineer. Mrs N later requested UKI reimbursed the 
£300 she paid her own engineer. They declined to do this, so she complained. 
UKI responded to it to say as Mrs N didnt obtain pre-authorisation to use her own engineer, 
they wouldnt assist with the claim. Mrs N wasnt happy with their response, so she 
approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended it be partially upheld. While he didnt think UKI should pay 
Mrs N £300, he thought they should have offered to pay Mrs N what it would have cost them 
to resolve the claim. 
UKI didnt agree and referred to the policy terms. They also say they incurred another call-
out charge given Mrs N failed to tell them the leak was isolated before their 18 March 2022 
visit. As they didnt agree with our investigators view, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether UKIs call-out appointment was reasonable
Mrs N says shes in her 80s and was worried to find water damaging her home. She didnt 
think UKI provided a reasonable call-out time, so she called her own engineer  to mitigate 
further damage and disruption. 
The policy doesnt specify a time UKI will send an engineer out. All things considered; I dont 
find UKI providing Mrs N with an appointment the next day  given the claim was reported at 
around 9pm  was unreasonable. 
While Mrs N expected UKI to provide her with an emergency response, in my view this 
means UKI will arrange for the next available engineer to attend as soon as possible  and I 
think the evidence suggests they did that here. A visit will broadly be based on the time a 
claim is reported, and engineers availability, amongst other things. 
So, whilst I dont consider the call-out time given by UKI was unreasonable, Ive gone on to 
consider the policy and what UKI were liable for had things happened in the way they should 
have. 
Whether the claim was covered by the policy
All parties accept the claim was a valid one  UKI arranged for an engineer to visit Mrs N 
and resolve it. As such, had things happened in the way they should have, the policy would 
have most likely responded to the claim. 
The policy does say UKI wont cover the cost of work carried out by anyone other than their 
authorised repairer. But this  in my view  means they arent liable for covering Mrs Ns full 
costs in hiring her own engineer because that wasnt their liability for the claim, nor did they 
authorise it. But I dont think this should mean it was fair for UKI to withdraw their liability in 
its entirety because there was still a valid claim that they were responsible for settling under 
the contract of insurance. 
UKI declined to assist Mrs N with the claim at all which I find was unreasonable. In these 
circumstances, UKIs liability was limited to paying Mrs N the amount it would have cost 
them (UKI) to resolve the claim. Therefore, Ill be directing UKI to pay this to Mrs N and 
include interest given no contribution towards the claim was offered at all. 
Whether Mrs N prejudiced UKIs position 
I dont think UKI has demonstrated Mrs N prejudiced their position by using her own 
engineer. Thats because UKI were liable under the contract of insurance to resolve this 
claim and  rather than withdrawing it  their liability was limited once Mrs N used her own 
engineer to pay what it would have cost them. 
UKI do make a fair point with regards to Mrs N failing to inform them the leak had been 
isolated prior to their engineers 18 March 2022 visit. They say had they been aware the leak 
was already isolated by then, they could have cancelled this call out. And this means they 
wouldnt have incurred this further cost. 
I think its fair to say Mrs N ought to have kept UKI informed of what happened between her 
reporting the claim to UKI attending. That way, UKI could have decided whether the 18 
March 2022 visit was still needed  and whether cancelling it several hours prior to it 
happening would have meant they wouldnt incur the call-out charge. In any case, I havent 
seen strong supporting evidence that shows this call-out charge from 18 March 2022 
impacted UKIs total claim costs meaning they incurred more than the policy limit for the 
claim. 
So, whilst Mrs N ought to have kept UKI informed during the claim, I dont think the further 
call-out charge to UKI made too much of an impact on things here overall. 
Summary 
Mrs N didnt obtain pre-authorisation to use her own engineer so UKI arent responsible for 
reimbursing the full costs she incurred. UKI were, however, responsible for settling the claim and should have offered to pay Mrs N 
what it would have cost them to resolve it. They didnt do this and decided to withdraw their 
liability for the claim in its entirety which I find was unfair. So, Ill be directing UKI to pay Mrs 
N what it would have cost them to resolve the claim, plus interest, because I think they 
should have offered to do this as part of the claim settlement. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance must now settle the claim and pay Mrs 
N the amount it would have cost them to resolve the claim. They must also include 8% 
simple interest* from the date Mrs N reported the claim, to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint, and now require U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Privilege Insurance to put matters right as set out under the heading Putting things right.
*If U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance considers that theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs N how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customer if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman