DRN-1422990
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc applied charges to his account without notifying him. 
What happened
On a day when he was out shopping, Mr B checked the balance on his current account with 
Santander, and it showed that he was in credit by £100. So Mr B did his shopping using his 
debit card.
But the following day he saw that his account was in an unauthorised overdraft. And it 
stayed overdrawn until Mr B received a credit into the account two days later. 
Mr B then called Santander and asked to close the account down, but at that time he was 
£9.58 overdrawn so this couldnt be done until this had been repaid. 
Although Santander stopped Mr Bs card at this time, charges were still applied for using the 
unarranged overdraft and for the payments made when the account was overdrawn. So a 
total of £50 in charges was applied. And, as this took Mr B further into an overdraft position, 
another charge of £50 was applied the following month which was based upon a £6 a day 
usage fee for an unarranged overdraft, up to a cap of £50.
Mr B complained. He said hed been charged for card payments that hed made when his 
account balance showed that he was in credit. He said he wouldnt have made them if his 
balance had shown there wasnt enough money in his account. He said he hadnt received 
notice that Santander was going to apply charges.
Santander said the payments Mr B had been made had been honoured as hed received the 
goods from the merchants. It said notice of the charges was given in Mr Bs account 
statements. It said that, when Mr B had called to close down his account, hed been told to 
check his statements for any further fees and charges that may be applied later. Santander 
felt that the charges had been applied correctly. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said Santander had applied the fees and charges to Mr Bs account in line with its terms and 
conditions. The investigator said Santander had sent Mr B a text alert to his mobile when his 
account had gone overdrawn and had sent Mr B statements to show the total fees and 
charges that would be applied and on what date that would be. He said Mr B was 
responsible for maintaining his account, and Santander had told him he should check his 
statements when he tried to close his account down.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said hes set up to receive paperless 
statements, so no statement had been sent to his home address. He said he receives a text 
message when his account balance goes below zero, but he has a £12 buffer limit and the 
text doesnt say when this has been exceeded. He feels that he wasnt made aware in 
advance of the charges. The investigator clarified that Mr Bs account was set for him receive his statements online 
rather than through the post. And Santander said that it sends automated text alerts to help 
customers manage their money. But the investigator said this didnt change his opinion, as 
Mr B was able to view the same statement online and Santander had advised him to check 
his statements when he tried to close his account. 
Mr B said Santander had provided false information that he had been sent postal statements 
with notice of the charges. He hadnt checked his account online for some time. He said that 
Santander hadnt informed him about the charges. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate all that Mr B has said, and his reasons why he believed he had enough 
money left in his account to make the payments he did. I understand that he wouldnt have 
spent on his card, if hed known what his account balance truly was.
Unfortunately, there is now no way I can see exactly what account information Mr B wouldve 
seen when he checked his account that day. His transaction history shows that he made a 
number of card payments that were debited from the account the day before, and that his 
account balance was £42.23 at the start of the day in question. 
However, it remains that Mr B spent more on his card that he did actually have in his 
account that day. And I cant say with any certainty that he did this because of an error by 
Santander. 
From his statements, I can see that the total card payments debited for that day was £60.40, 
which is less than the £100 he believed he was in credit by. And the records show that 
Santander sent Mr B a text message to alert him that his account had gone overdrawn. 
Although I understand the point that hes made about the text alert not telling him whether 
hed exceeded the £12 buffer limit on his account, I think its reasonable to think that this 
wouldve let him know that hed spent more than he had in his account. And these text alerts 
are sent in advance of charges being applied, to allow time to credit the account to avoid or 
reduce them. 
Ive looked at Mr Bs account statement and this shows the interest and charges that had 
been applied for the statement period, and when these would be deducted from his account. 
Initially, Santander had told us that Mr B received postal statements when this wasnt right, 
as he was set up to have online (paperless) statements. It has explained that this was a 
mistake in the reading of the details when preparing the information for us. I dont think this 
was intentional.
So, while I appreciate that this will have meant Mr B didnt receive these particular 
statements through the post, his choice method of receiving them was online so its 
reasonable to consider that he wouldve used this way to check those statements. 
Mr B made a call to Santander a few days after he went overdrawn. Ive listened to the 
recording of that call and Mr B is told that the account cant be closed and why this was. The 
amount he was overdrawn by was within his £12 buffer. But Santanders adviser told Mr B 
that the account would still be an active account; that there were pending payments on it; 
and that he should check his statements for future fees. Overall, I dont think that Santander has acted wrongly or unfairly with applying these fees 
and charges to Mr Bs account, when this has been done in line with its terms and 
conditions. And I think Mr B was given enough information to let him know that these 
charges would be applied and when this would be.
As I understand it, Santander placed action on the account on hold, and at that time Mr B 
had a debit balance of £102.58. I can only suggest that Mr B contacts Santander to arrange 
a mutually agreed way of repaying this so that his account can be closed as he wishes.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman