DRN-1890711
The complaint
Mr W complained on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs W about a mis-sold a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is now responsible for answering the complaint. 
Ill mainly refer to Halifax throughout this decision for consistency.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr W its unlikely to be 
upheld. He disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr W genuinely and honestly feels the 
MPPI was mis-sold to him and his late wife. The main point of complaint seems to be that 
he feels the MPPI wasnt necessary.
Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 1993 and I think its clear enough that 
they agreed to have the policy at the time. The documentation Ive seen shows there was a 
yes / no choice about having MPPI and they elected to have it in respect of Mr W, who 
appears to have been the main earner. On this basis I think Halifax obtained the proper 
consent to add the MPPI and the evidence is supported by other documentation and Halifax 
screenshots that Ive personally seen. 
I turn now to the main aspect of Mr Ws complaint, which is that he had a good steady job 
which already came with sickness benefits. I understand the point being made here, but Im 
afraid this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. For example, the mortgage was secured 
against their home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments 
could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI cover was payable 
for up to 60 months which in my experience is a relatively long time and more than some of 
the other MPPI products around at that time. This would have been in addition to any other 
means they had in place at the time.
Mr W also appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt 
affordable for them. So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mr W, I 
dont think it being recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a 
suitable product for Mr W and the late Mrs Ws consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm after 27 years whether Halifax did everything right but having 
discussed the cover I think Mr W and the late Mrs W would have been given the supporting 
literature explaining the policy rules and I see they were provided with the annual and 
monthly premium costs. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I think there is enough evidence they engaged in 
discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of steps to get the 
policy. I dont find anything that supports the complaint that the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint by Mr W and the estate of the late Mrs W. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman