DRN-3712204
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a cash machine withdrawal 
from his account that he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr L says he has lost £250. He says that his account was debited with this amount on 31 
March 2022, but he didnt receive the cash he requested from the machine. He is unhappy at 
the way Nationwide looked into this.
Nationwide said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that the claims administrator for the owner 
of the cash machine had certified that the machine was balanced on 1 April 2022. It was 
short by £40 which meant that more money had been given out than should have been.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr L had 
explained he first made a successful withdrawal for £250. And that he didnt receive any 
further money despite making attempts. But the journal roll for the cash machine provided by 
Nationwide showed that the money was dispensed correctly with 25 £10 notes. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that £250 was a lot of money to lose. He and his wife had needed 
£1,000 for roof repairs. He said that £500 had first been withdrawn from his wifes account 
without incident. Mr L said that he then tried to take money from his account. He said that 
the first attempt was successful. But that on the next he didnt receive the money. His wife 
suggested he obtained a mini statement. This showed that there were available funds. Mr L 
said he tried again without success. And a bank card from a different account for his wife 
was then used to obtain the further £250 required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. Im 
looking at what happened with Mr Ls account as hes the complainant here and so what he 
says about his wifes accounts is the context hes provided.
Ive seen his bank statement. And I think thats helpful in showing some of the sequence of 
what happened. A first withdrawal attempt for £250 debited to his account was rejected. So, 
the balance on his statement was adjusted back for that amount. There were then two 
further withdrawals of £250. And Mr L has disputed the second of these.
Nationwide obtained details of that withdrawal from the cash machine owner. Its provided a 
journal roll which shows the disputed entry and the successful use of the machine before 
and after this.
This does show that Mr Ls card was inserted into the machine, his PIN entered and a 
request for £250 made. The journal shows that 25 £10 notes were dispensed and taken just 
before 19:23. There were no notes then rejected. The balance on Mr Ls account remaining 
is recorded and I can see that this ties up to that shown on his statement after the second 
withdrawal. I can also see that there was a further request then for £250. No money was 
dispensed.
Nationwide has also provided its audit of details of all the transactions with his card that day. 
This shows that the first attempt to withdraw £250 that day wasnt successful and reversed 
as I set out above. I can then see that the card was used to make a balance enquiry, and   
Mr L has referred to obtaining a mini statement. A first successful withdrawal of £250 is 
shown. Then the one that is disputed and which Ive referred to above. And then a request 
for a further £250 which was declined as Nationwide recorded that Mr L had already reached 
the maximum withdrawal limit of cash that day of £500.
Nationwide has also stated that the balancing information about the machine shows that 
there was no discrepancy to account for the dispute Mr L has raised. And in fact, the report 
is that there was a shortfall not surplus of money in the machine. I appreciate that as Mr L 
states this means that an error of some sort must have been made. But the nature of that 
error doesnt support him not being given his money.
I know that Mr L states that he wouldnt have made so many attempts to withdraw cash if he 
hadnt received all the money. And he knew that the daily cash withdrawal limit on his and 
his wifes card was £500. And thats why he says a different account was used by his wife for 
the final amount of £250 they needed. He explains he was using his wifes cards too while 
she sat in the car due to an injury. On any view he personally made multiple attempts to take 
out the money they needed with different cards in a relatively short space of time. Based on 
what I set out above the sequence just for the use of his card is involved and doesnt tie up 
exactly to his explanation. 
I can see hes also set out that he didnt feel supported by Nationwide after he complained 
and that no one spoke to him before the final response was issued. So, he cant see things 
have been investigated properly. He says he and his wife did go into a branch to discuss 
what had happened and were given some information verbally. Mr L wasnt reassured.
In my view Nationwide has taken the steps Id expect to obtain information from the cash 
machine owner. It wouldnt for example be in a position to obtain CCTV and had suggested 
to Mr L he might want to try and obtain it. Even if that had been available it may not have 
resolved things. And this service has now been able to look at what Mr L has put forward 
and said about the context of what happened. 
Having done so and balanced all the factors Im afraid I dont have sufficient to find that 
Nationwide has made a mistake. The information supports that the cash was dispensed 
correctly. I find it reasonable that Nationwide is holding Mr L responsible for this withdrawal.
I know Mr L will be very disappointed by what Ive concluded.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman