DRN-4148629
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) wouldnt refund 
a cash difference.
What happened
On 24 September 2022, Mrs C visited a branch of Virgin and used the express deposit 
service to deposit two amounts, one for £11,000 and one for £15,000. On 6 October 2022, 
her account was debited with £20 and £280  these being shortfalls on the cash deposits. 
Virgin wrote to Mrs C on 6 October 2022 to explain the discrepancies and the action taken. 
On 8 October 2022, Mrs C visited the branch to find out what had happened.
On 3 November 2022, Virgin refunded £20, but not the other amount of £280.
Mrs C complained. She said she was certain she had paid in the amounts of £11,000 and 
£15,000, and the cash had been counted separately by a colleague. She hadnt been 
advised by Virgin what had happened, and when she went to the branch she was spoken to 
in a discourteous manner by a member of staff. She said Virgin should refund the money 
and pay compensation.
Virgin said theyd investigated the matters Mrs C raised. They said that the first bag of cash 
hadnt been turned inside out and when it had been the £20 was found and recredited to Mrs 
Cs account. They checked the other deposit and concluded there was a shortfall of £280. 
Virgin apologised for the manner of the member of staff at the branch  although the calls 
werent recorded.
Virgin said theyd written to Mrs C on 6 October 2022, but the delays in the receipt of the 
letter wasnt their responsibility. Virgin also said that the terms and conditions of the express 
deposit service said that an account can be debited or credited with any difference found 
when the money is counted. Virgin paid compensation of £50 for the service provided at the 
branch.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted reasonably and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Virgins terms and conditions covered what happened if there was any 
shortage in the cash paid in.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said she hadnt been advised anything about the terms and 
conditions, nor told her account could be debited with any shortfall. She also brought another 
complaint to us concerning Virgins process when she wanted to make a large cash 
withdrawal in March 2023. She asked that an ombudsman look into her complaint, and so it 
has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs C has said she wasnt happy about the way Virgin 
dealt with a large cash withdrawal in March 2023  but this is a new complaint, and it is only 
fair that she puts this to Virgin in the first instance. So this decision doesnt deal with that.
I was sorry to hear of the upset that Mrs C has experienced. Its my role to reach a fair 
decision based on the evidence Ive seen.
Virgin explained that their process is for any cash deposit discrepancy to be double checked 
by another member of staff; and for the bags to be turned inside out to check if any cash 
remained.
Virgin said the CCTV had been looked at which showed the first bag (£11,000) wasnt so 
checked  and therefore the £20 was refunded. They told us that CCTV was checked and it 
did show that the check on the second bag (£15,000) was carried out. The CCTV is no 
longer available due to the time thats passed.
Ive seen Virgins records of the checks they carried out  and both show the initials of two 
staff members when they made the checks. The document clearly shows there was a 
shortfall of £280 (on the credit of £15,000)  and that it was double checked and signed by 
the two staff. So  Im persuaded that there was a shortfall of £280.
Ive also seen the letter Virgin sent to Mrs C dated 6 October 2022. Mrs C has said to us that 
this wasnt sent quick enough, nor was it received in a timely way by her. Ive considered this 
 and we cant hold Virgin responsible for any slow delivery by Royal Mail. But - I agree that 
it wouldve been better if Virgin sent the letter to Mrs C earlier than they did (it took two 
weeks to send). But of itself, I dont think this warrants further compensation.
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of the deposit service, and this does say The 
Bank is not liable for any discrepancy between the amount or details of the deposit recorded 
on the Pay-in Slip and the actual contents of the Deposit Bag verified by the Bank. The Bank 
will notify you of any such discrepancy as soon as possible. I note Mrs C says she wasnt 
aware of this  but I think its reasonable for me to say that such a term would be common 
for all banks for such a cash deposit service  where the cash isnt counted on the spot 
when its paid in.
Therefore  I dont think it is reasonable to ask Virgin to refund the £280.
Mrs C has said that she wasnt happy how she was spoken to when she visited the branch - 
there isnt a recording of that. But in this case, Virgin have accepted what Mrs C has said 
and paid compensation of £50  which I consider is reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In summary, I think Virgin dealt with Mrs Cs complaint reasonably  and Im not asking them 
to do anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman