DRN-4340275
The complaint
Miss P complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited declined her claim on her 
motor insurance policy. She wants it to deal with her claim.
 
What happened
Miss P said she swerved to avoid an animal and damaged her car when she hit a post. 
Mulsanne delayed dealing with her claim. But it later declined it as it said there had been 
inconsistencies in Miss Ps accounts of what had occurred, and it couldnt validate her claim. 
But it agreed there had been problems in the claim handing so that Miss Ps car wasnt 
recovered, and it collected parking tickets. Mulsanne offered to consider these. But Miss P 
wanted Mulsanne to deal with her claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Mulsanne had reasonably declined the claim, in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions, due to the inconsistencies. But he thought Mulsanne had fairly offered to 
consider the parking charges when Miss P provided evidence for these. He thought it 
neednt do anything further.
Miss P replied that Mulsannes agent had given her incorrect advice when she first reported 
the claim. She said Mulsanne hadnt considered CCTV footage of the location of the 
incident. Miss P asked for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has explained that the declined claim has left her with serious financial difficulties. I 
was sorry to hear this. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
Mulsanne relied on section 12.2 of the policy booklet General Conditions  Fraud to decline 
the claim:
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate information.
If you, anyone insured by this policy or anyone acting on your behalf provides us with false, 
exaggerated, or misrepresented information, we will take one or more of the following 
actions:
Cancel your policy, under certain circumstances this may be with immediate effect,
Refuse to pay your claim or only part of your claim,
Recover any costs incurred from you or any other insured person.
Mulsanne said it had been unable to validate the claim because of the inconsistencies in 
Miss Ps statements. It said it was concerned that:
Miss P was unable to confirm the incident location until almost a month after the incident 
date. And she was unable to recall which route she took travelling home on the night of 
the incident. Miss P explained that she had memory loss and so couldnt recall the 
location or her route at the time. But Miss P didnt seek medical advice and so theres no 
evidence to substantiate this claim. And as Miss P couldnt recall the location when she 
first reported the accident, this means that any CCTV evidence would be lost. 
Miss P explained that she had swerved to avoid an animal. But Mulsanne thought this 
was inconsistent with the evasive action she took. It thought that based on the little sleep 
Miss P said she had on the night of the incident, she could not have been alert and well 
rested whilst driving. So it thought the incident was a result of lack of sleep, rather than 
an animal on the road. Miss P said she usually slept little. But I dont think this accounts 
for the actions she took to avoid something in her path she couldnt positively identify 
when she said she was travelling at a low speed. 
Miss P was unable to explain how and why after the incident she travelled a mile further 
in a different direction to her home address. And why she left the scene without reporting 
it. Miss Ps car was badly damaged and unroadworthy, so I think she would have had 
difficulty in travelling a further mile after the incident. The nature of Miss Ps occupation 
means that she should have been aware that her car would collect parking tickets. But 
she didnt then inform the council or police to try and prevent this. 
Miss P was unable to recall a lot of the events surrounding the incident, and because the 
emergency services were not called on the night, it was difficult to validate the 
circumstances. Miss P said she was told she didnt need to inform the police of the 
accident. And, from listening to the notification call, the agent did tell her this. But it 
means that validating evidence couldnt then be provided. 
Miss P said she had lost her memory of the incident after she had reported it to 
Mulsanne. But she hadnt sought medical advice about this, so Mulsanne was unable to 
validate it. Miss P said Mulsannes agent had said her memory loss was due to shock. 
But, again from the phone call, this isnt supported by the evidence. Miss P when she 
reported the accident seven hours afterwards didnt complain about memory loss. 
So Im satisfied that there were inconsistencies in Miss Ps statements and a lack of 
evidence to enable Mulsanne to validate her claim. And so Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Mulsanne to rely on the policys terms and conditions to decline Miss Ps 
claim. 
Mulsanne didnt recover Miss Ps car as she thought it would. And so it collected parking 
tickets. I think Mulsanne reasonably offered to consider these if Miss P would forward them. I 
dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman