DRN-2146407
The complaint
Ms K complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) changed its contactless payment use 
without telling her.
What happened
Ms K says her Co-op account card was declined which caused her embarrassment. She 
says she was told by Co-op that there was a limit on contactless use and a value limit. Ms K 
says Co-op should remove these restrictions and tell its customers when it makes these 
sorts of changes. She also complains about a problem viewing her online account statement 
caused by a delay in sending her a verification code.
Co-op says the account terms and conditions make clear that contactless payments may 
require a CHIP and PIN to be used and that a payment may be declined for security 
reasons. It says that information is also available on the online banking pages and on its 
website. Co-op accepts there was a delay in sending a verification code and has offered £15 
compensation for that and has refunded a transaction.
Ms K brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was up to Co-op to decide how many times a contactless payment could be made 
and for what value. The investigator thought the account terms and conditions were clear 
that a payment may require CHIP and PIN and that it may be declined. And that the 
compensation offered for the delay in receiving the verification code was fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms K doesnt accept that view and says Co-op has a duty to tell customers about these sorts 
of changes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Co-op has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further. I realise Ms K will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what has taken place.
Im satisfied that Co-op makes clear in the account terms and conditions and in the 
information, it provides about contactless payments, that on occasions a CHIP and PIN may 
be needed to authorise the transaction. And that there is a limit to the amount of times the 
contactless feature can be used. Im also satisfied that those restrictions are in place to 
protect customers money and to prevent those customers becoming the victims of fraud. I 
appreciate that Ms K says that information should be available to customers and that they 
should be told about any changes. But I have to disagree with Ms K, and I think its up to Co-
op to decide what its policy should be on these matters when it exercises its commercial 
judgement. And I think the reason it doesnt share that information is to prevent fraud and 
security problems.
I accept that on occasions legitimate transaction can get blocked due to security reasons 
and I accept in those circumstances genuine customers can be caused inconvenience as in 
this case. But I dont think that means Co-op made a mistake or acted unfairly or that it 
should change its fraud policy.
Overall, Im satisfied Co-op has fairly explained why Ms K couldnt use her contactless 
feature. I also think it has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer in respect of the 
verification delay. I appreciate that isnt the main part of Ms Ks complaint or that she says 
that compensation wasnt enough, but I make that clear to the parties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman