DRN-2487175
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) has not credited his account with a cash deposit.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview here. 
In September 2019 Mr M says his wife visited a TSB branch to deposit £1,200 cash into his 
personal current account, £500 cash into his business account and pay £300 towards his 
credit card. Several weeks later, when his statement arrived Mr M noticed the £1,200 had 
not credited his personal account. He raised this with the branch - who were unable to trace 
the £1,200 Mr M says his wife paid into his account.   
Unhappy with TSBs response Mr M brought his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. She didnt think that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld as 
she hadnt seen any evidence a mistake or any wrongdoing was committed by the branch 
staff. She said from the evidence she had seen, she was more persuaded that the disputed 
cash amount of £1,200 was not received by the cashier. Mr M disagreed, he is adamant his 
wife gave the cashier £1,200 and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same view as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. I know that will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mr M feels strongly about this incident. I spoke to him to explain that in a 
situation like this, where I wasnt present at the time the events took place or where it is one 
persons word against the other  I cant know for certain what has happened. So, when 
reaching my decision about whether or not TSBs actions were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, particularly where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I need to decide the complaint on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened. It would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint which is based 
largely on Mr M and/or his wifes testimony if, on balance, the evidence suggests otherwise. 
Both the £500 deposit into Mr Ms business account and £300 payment towards his credit 
card were correctly applied. In respect of the £1,200 cash deposit payment Mr M says his 
wife made into his personal account having considered everything I think the most likely 
explanation is that Mr Ms wife did not give the cashier the money to deposit. Mr M in his 
submissions to me has suggested other possible alternatives scenarios, which to be clear 
Im not saying arent probable. Rather the judgement I need to make is which of all the 
probable scenarios do I think is most likely based on the evidence Ive been presented with. 
So, Ill explain why I think, on balance, the most likely is that the cash amount of £1,200 was 
not handed to the cashier;
- Mr M has not been able to provide this service with a receipt of deposit. 
- In July 2019 TSB made some branch transaction changes. One of those changes 
were that they would no longer be accepting third party cash deposits. There were 
some exceptions, but none which apply here, in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
disputed £1,200 cash deposit. TSB also says since July 2019 branch staff were told 
to let customers know about branch transaction changes.  
- Ive looked at the account operation over the six months leading up to the incident. 
The account transactions were mainly made up of regular direct debits and regular 
cash deposits of a similar value to the disputed payment which Mr M says his wife 
made in September 2019 but wasnt credited to his account. 
- This pattern changes in August 2019, when a large payment of £1,200, which looking 
at previous account history wouldve been made by cash is transferred into the 
account by faster payment. It wouldnt therefore be unreasonable to conclude Mr M 
and/or his wife already had an awareness of the changes TSB made in July 2019. 
- TSB said the branch checked all cashier logs/listings for those that were working on 
the day in question, none of whom processed a transaction for the value of £1,200. 
All tills balanced and there were no errors.  
- Mr Ms wife recalls the cashier explaining the changes to her and the reasons for 
them. But says as the cashier knew Mr M worked away from home and wouldnt be 
able to come into branch himself to make the deposit, she said shed make an 
exception on this occasion. If this were the case the suggestion here given all the tills 
balanced and no errors were identified would be that the cashier knowingly didnt 
credit the cash and stole the money. Firstly, Ive not seen any sufficiently persuasive 
evidence to support this and I note this is not an allegation Mr M has directly made, 
but even if he were, theft is a serious allegation and criminal matter that would be 
better suited for the police to investigate. 
- After the incident had been reported, Mr M and his wife met with the branch 
manager. They reviewed the CCTV in branch together. Both parties couldnt agree 
on all aspects of what the footage showed, and their testimonies differ slightly. Mr M 
asked us to obtain and consider the CCTV which hed asked TSB to retain. 
Unfortunately, TSB hasnt been able to provide this. I understand why Mr M has said 
he finds this to be rather convenient and believes if CCTV evidence had been 
reviewed it would have evidenced his points, but without seeing the CCTV I cant 
fairly say this is the case. Additionally, CCTV evidence doesnt always help to resolve 
matters. And for these reasons it wouldn't be fair of me to speculate on what it may 
or may not have shown. I have to base my decision on the available evidence.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr M has said and of course I cant entirely rule out 
the possibility that an error had been made, or that branch staff have acted dishonestly but 
looking at all the above I think its unlikely. In the circumstances, I think on balance, its more 
likely than not that the cash was not given to the cashier to deposit. It follows that it wouldnt 
be fair to require TSB to credit his account with that amount.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman