DRN-3491235
The complaint
Mr M complains about the increase in premium quoted by Aviva Insurance Limited when he 
changed his car under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M changed his car and went online to obtain a quote from Aviva. He says he wanted to 
transfer his policy across to his new car, but this wasnt possible. The price he was quoted 
was higher for his new car and Mr M didnt think this was fair. He says his new car is smaller 
and less powerful than his old one. He also says he has no driving convictions or claims and 
has been driving for over 40 years. 
Mr M says he cancelled the policy as he wasnt prepared to pay the higher premium and 
sought cover elsewhere. He says Aviva also accused him of not paying a direct debit 
payment when this wasnt the case. Mr M asks that Aviva pays the difference between his 
old and new premium and compensates him for the upset caused. 
Aviva says its premium was calculated fairly based on its established underwriting criteria. It 
says it was unable to collect the direct debit payment for February 2022 as Mr M had 
cancelled his payment instruction. It says an offer was made to waive the £50 cancellation 
fee, which Mr M declined. 
Mr M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says 
Aviva has supplied its underwriting information that shows the new premium was based on 
the same factors apart from the new cars registration. He didnt think Aviva had applied 
ratings unfairly or treated Mr M any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
Our investigator says when Mr M cancelled his policy in January 2022 the payment for the 
start of February had already been requested by Aviva. He says this is why the payment is 
shown as being taken and then refunded. But he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong 
here. 
Mr M still didnt think it was fair for Aviva to increase his premium to the extent it had. So, he 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer 
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered, 
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk.
Its not our role to dictate to an insurer what it should charge customers for an insurance 
policy. The price it charges, and the methods used to calculate its premiums are a 
commercial decision for it to make.
So, we wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, 
the risk assessments it makes  or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But we will 
consider whether the insurer treated its customer fairly in the same way it would other 
customers, which is consistent with its general approach to pricing.
We asked Aviva for its underwriting information, which it has supplied. I have read this 
information to determine whether it used its established underwriting criteria when 
calculating Mr Ms premium.
Avivas underwriting criteria is sensitive commercial information, so I cant share it. But Ive 
considered the information it provided, and Im satisfied it did follow its established process 
when calculating Mr Ms premium.
I can see from the information supplied that a wide range of factors were considered when 
Mr M asked for a quote for his new car. But from the information Aviva provided it didnt 
change anything other than the car details. I think this shows it did treat Mr M as it wouldve 
any other customer. 
Aviva explains that Mr M changed how he was to pay the premium for the new quote. This 
meant he was to pay monthly as opposed to annually as he had done previously, which 
included a charge for finance. So, this added to the overall cost. 
I can understand why Mr M was surprised and disappointed with the increased premiums he 
was quoted by Aviva. This was a significant increase compared with the premium he had 
paid for his old car. But this doesnt mean Aviva treated him unfairly. The level at which it 
sets its premiums is a decision for it to make. But Im satisfied it treated Mr M the same as it 
would any other customer when calculating his premium.
Mr M says he was unfairly accused of not paying a direct debit payment that was owed. I 
note Avivas explanation that it was unable to collect the February 2021 direct debit as the 
instruction had been cancelled. However, the process of collecting the payment had already 
begun prior to the cancellation. This is why it shows as it does on Mr Ms bank statement. 
From what I have seen I dont think Aviva behaved unfairly here, given its explanation.
Im sorry that Mr M is upset with the rise in cost of Avivas premium for his new car. But I 
think it has treated him fairly when calculating his premium. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman