DRN-2358406
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Unum Ltd.s decision to terminate his claim. 
What happened
Mr C has a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Unum. 
This pays a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 28 weeks if Mr C is unable to work 
due to illness or injury. 
Mr C became unwell in 2017 and was unable to work. He made a claim to Unum which was 
accepted. However, in 2019, Unum reviewed the claim and decided to terminate it as it didnt 
think the medical evidence showed Mr C was still incapacitated. 
Mr C complained and unhappy with Unums response, referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had done anything wrong, 
as it had based its decision on the medical evidence as a whole. Mr C disagreed and in 
summary, made the following comments:
He would ask his GP to confirm his inability to return to his previous role.
His employer, based on guidance from the GP, refused to allow him to return to his 
previous role. His employers liability insurance would be void due to the side effects 
of medication such as confusion and memory issues along with an aversion to low 
temperatures. He also wouldnt be able to do complex equations and calculations 
which require complete concentration.
Mr C feels he should receive partial benefits, as allowed by the policy terms - he is 
doing a part time role specifically created for him by his employer which pays less 
than his insured role.
Mr C has also commented that Unums decision is influenced by its relationship with 
his employer.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. When an insurer terminates a claim, it needs to show 
the definition of incapacity is no longer being met.
The policy defines incapacity as:
the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is unable by 
reason of their illness or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of their 
insured occupation
The policy says payment of benefits will stop if the insured member ceases to be 
incapacitated. 
Ive reviewed the key medical evidence relevant to my decision, keeping in mind that the 
onus is on Unum to prove that Mr C no longer meets the definition of incapacity in order for it 
to terminate a claim. 
key medical evidence 
March 2018  the claim was originally admitted as Mr C had a long-standing liver condition 
which had deteriorated with significant symptoms. There was no expectation of a return to 
work until a transplant was completed. 
May 2018  Mr C had successful transplant surgery. 
September 2018  a letter from a consultant surgeon confirmed Mr C had an uncomplicated 
recovery following his transplant. 
October 2018  Mr C attended the liver clinic  he had made a good recovery with mild renal 
impairment. Mr C said he was feeling better but his blood pressure was high and was asked 
to discuss this with his GP. His liver blood tests were raised but stable. 
February 2019  a letter from a consultant in liver medicine confirmed Mr C was looking well 
and doing everything possible to maximise his health. 
June 2019  a letter from a plastic/reconstructive surgeon  Mr C wanted surgery to reduce 
breast tissue. The operation took place on 27 June 2019  Mr C was barred from driving as 
a result and signed off by his GP for six months.
August 2019  a letter from a consultant plastic surgeon confirmed Mr Cs history of 
treatments and noted Mr C had recovered well. He questioned why a sick note was issued 
for six months. Mr C was now able to return to full physical activities and presumed he could 
return to work within six weeks of the second operation. 
September 2019  Mr Cs GP wrote a letter which said he suffered with extreme fatigue and 
memory decline. And was sensitive to temperature fluctuations. He didnt feel he could do 
his usual job.
September 2019  a letter from a consultant hepatologist said Mr C was doing well with 
occasional poor memory. He was otherwise keeping well. 
September 2019  Unum ceased payment of the claim. 
October 2019  Mr Cs GP wrote in response to Unums request for a medical report. He 
confirmed Mr Cs recovery had been good but had a substantial effect on his general health. 
He had breast reduction surgery at the end of June 2019 which was related to his transplant. 
This was a routine procedure and he had made a good recovery. Mr Cs health had been 
adversely affected following his transplantation surgery. He suffered with lethargy and poor 
energy levels and was very sensitive to temperature changes. He didnt note any specific 
relevant clinical signs on examination. Mr C had been signed off work for six months as a 
result of the liver transplant surgery and not the breast reduction surgery. The GP hadnt 
been in a position to advise Mr C regarding specific roles within his workplace. But Mr C 
didnt feel he was capable of his specific previous role since his transplant surgery. Mr C was 
now stable and didnt think future improvement was likely. His specialists were happy with his progress and there was little to add, medically. Mr C didnt feel fit enough to continue his 
previous role. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Unums decision to terminate the claim was 
an unreasonable one. The GPs letter dated October 2019 focuses on how Mr C doesnt feel 
he is able to return to his previous role, based on his self-reporting. This followed on from 
reviews by Mr Cs specialist consultants who said Mr C had recovered well from his 
surgeries and had occasional poor memory. In addition, in August 2019, his consultant 
plastic surgeon said he was now able to return to full physical activities. 
I understand why Mr C feels he cant return to his previous role due to the side effects of his 
medication. But I havent seen any objective medical evidence which specifically comments 
on the side effects of Mr Cs medication and how this would limit his ability to go back to his 
previous role. The notes refer to Mr C feeling unable to return to his previous role and the 
GP confirmed in October 2019 that he wasnt in a position to advise Mr C about specific 
roles in his workplace. And so I dont think the GPs report is persuasive enough to suggest 
that Mr C is unable to return to his previous role.
In summary, following Mr Cs transplant, it seemed he made a good recovery but reported 
that he felt he couldnt return to his previous role. However, the specialist consultants havent 
provided any comment that Mr C wouldnt be able to return to his previous role. 
Unum has requested further information from Mr Cs GP and has reviewed Mr Cs medical 
records  I dont think it has acted unfairly by terminating the claim as it has explained the 
evidence shows that Mr C recovered well from his surgeries and so he no longer meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
Mr Cs comments
Mr C has provided a number of comments which I have carefully reviewed and considered. 
Ive summarised those which I consider to be key to my decision here:
He would like to ask his GP to confirm his inability to return to his previous role.
If Mr C wishes to provide further medical evidence, he would need send this to Unum for 
review. 
His employer, based on guidance from the GP, refused to allow him to return to his 
previous role. His employers liability insurance would be void due to the side effects 
of medication that cause confusion and memory issues along with an aversion to low 
temperatures. He also wouldnt be able to do complex equations and calculations 
which require complete concentration.
The terms and conditions of the policy require evidence of incapacity. I accept that Mr Cs 
employer is concerned about its position but that isnt the basis for a payment of benefits 
under the terms of the policy. Mr C must continue to meet the definition of incapacity to be 
eligible for benefit. 
Mr C feels he should receive partial benefits, as allowed by the policy terms as he is 
doing a part time role specifically created for him by his employer which pays less 
than his insured role.Mr C would be entitled to partial benefits if he met the criteria and definition of incapacity. As 
Unum doesnt think Mr C continues to meet the definition, I dont think its decision not to pay 
partial benefits is incorrect.
Mr C has also commented that Unums decision is influenced by its relationship with 
his employer.
I havent seen any evidence of this. Im satisfied that Unum has shown why it considers Mr C 
no longer meets the definition of incapacity through the medical evidence it has obtained and 
assessed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman