DRN-3298041
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) applied when she handed back a car shed 
acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In March 2017, Miss T entered into a hire agreement with MBFS to acquire a new car. Miss 
T returned the car at the end of the agreement in April 2021, to a car dealership. The car 
was then appraised by the dealership and an appraisal document was given to Miss T  this 
document noted the condition the car was returned in and reviewed each item of the car. 
Miss T wasnt charged for any damage to the car at this point.
Around a month later, MBFS arranged for an inspection to be carried out by an agent Ill 
refer to as B. After this, Miss T says she received a letter from MBFS charging her a total of 
£1,180.40 for damage to the car. Miss T disputes this as she says she was advised by the 
dealership that the car was in an immaculate condition and that this was further corroborated 
by no damage being present in the appraisal document the dealership provided her with. 
Miss T says she doesnt know where the car was left after it was returned and believes the 
damage was done after shed dropped the car off. Miss T wants MBFS to remove the 
charges and to stop pursuing her for the amount.
MBFS looked into Miss Ts concerns and said the charges had been applied in line with their 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS). However, after looking into things again, they agreed to 
remove a £30 charge for the damage to the left-hand door mirror housing as MBFS said the 
image provided in the inspection report didnt support the charge raised. MBFS also said B 
have confirmed that no damage had been recorded during the transit of Miss Ts car.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Vs concerns. Our Investigator said from looking at the 
appraisal document, it appears that each part of the car was inspected. The appraisal 
document noted 4 x refurbs when referring to the alloy wheels  which indicated potential 
damage to the wheels. Our Investigator said she considered the other damage noted in Bs 
inspection report to be prominent enough that she didnt think it would have gone unnoticed 
when the car was dropped off and appraised by the dealership just one month prior. She 
noticed there was a mileage difference between when the car was dropped off and 
appraised on 16 April 2021 to when Bs inspection took place on 19 May 2021 which MBFS 
didnt provide an explanation for. So, our Investigator felt the mileage discrepancy could 
have indicated the car was driven in between the time it was dropped off by Miss T to the full 
inspection being carried out.
Overall, our Investigator felt it wasnt fair for MBFS to charge Miss T for all the damage  she 
said it was fair for them to charge Miss T for damage to three of the alloy wheels as she felt 
these fell outside the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. 
Therefore, our Investigator said Miss T should only be charged £330 for the damage, rather 
than £1,180.40.
MBFS agreed with our Investigators opinion. However, Miss T said she feels MBFS havent 
been very honest in the way theyve acted. And that if she was told to expect charges when 
she dropped the car off at the dealership, then she would have accepted the charges. 
Instead, Miss T says she was told that the car was in immaculate condition. Miss T also 
acknowledged the alloy wheels did have some damage but that this was consistent with a 
car that was four years old and within MBFS VRS. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ts hire agreement and these explain that 
when its time to return her car, whether its at the end of the period of hire or earlier, she 
must return it in line with MBFS VRS.
As well as MBFS VRS, the BVRLA have produced industry guidance to help determine what 
a finance company can charge for when a car is returned. Following the removal of the £30 
charge for the damage to the left-hand door mirror housing, MBFS charged Miss T for these 
items of damage (taken from the inspection report):
1. Bumper front Scratched over 50mm £210
2. Bumper rear Dented 50mm to 100mm £260
3. Quarter panel left hand rear Dented greater than 100mm £260
4. Tyre left hand rear Gouge £120.40
5. Left hand front, right hand 
front and right-hand rear 
wheelRim damage over 50mm £330 (in total for all 
three alloy wheels)
Ive looked at both the appraisal document supplied by the dealership and the photos 
provided in Bs inspection report. 
From looking at the appraisal document, I can see parts of Miss Ts car was inspected by the 
dealership. The document doesnt make note of the same damage as what was in Bs 
inspection report. The only reference to damage noted is 4x refurb when the alloy wheels 
were inspected. Theres a question on the document which says, Any issues? and I can 
see a handwritten note under this question which says no, nice car. This note is made 
again on another part of the document  which I think corroborates what Miss T has said she 
was told by the dealership that the car was in a good condition at the time the initial 
appraisal was done on the car.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage in the inspection report and I dont think its fair for 
MBFS to charge for items 1, 2, 3 and 4 from the table above. I say this because having 
looked at these damages in the photos, I agree with our Investigator that I think some of 
these damages would have been prominent when Miss Ts car was appraised by the 
dealership. Therefore, I think its reasonable to believe if these damages were present when 
Miss T dropped her car off, that they would have been noted in the appraisal document  
just like there was reference made to the alloy wheels. The reason I say some of the 
damage, as MBFS have said theres a dent greater than 100mm in item 3. However, I dont 
think the size of this item is clearly visible in the photos provided in the inspection report. So, 
I dont think it was fair for MBFS to charge for this item in any case. 
I can also see the mileage of the car noted down on the appraisal document was 25,743. 
And the inspection report from 19 May 2021 shows the mileage was 25,916. MBFS havent provided an explanation for this, but I think its reasonable to suggest the car was driven 
between the time it was dropped off by Miss T and the inspection was carried out. Therefore, 
I think theres a possibility these damages could have been caused during the time Miss T 
didnt have the car.
This leaves me to make a finding on item 5 from the table above  rim damage to three of 
the wheels. I note Miss T acknowledges that there was some damage to the alloy wheels but 
that this was consistent with the car being four years old at the point it was inspected by B. I 
appreciate Miss Ts point, and even though Ill take into account the BVRLA guidance and 
MBFS VRS, Ill also take into account whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and 
mileage, as well as the agreements terms and conditions. The VRS doesnt allow for 
damage over 25mm to the alloy wheel. And the BVRLA guidance doesnt allow for scuffs 
over 50mm on the total circumference of the alloy wheel. Having looked at the photos on the 
inspection report, I think the damage to the three alloy wheels is more than what the VRS 
and BVRLA guidance allows for. Even if I was to give more of an allowance given the car 
was around four years old at the point of inspection, I think the damage caused to the 
wheels still falls outside of fair wear and tear. Therefore, I think its fair for MBFS to charge 
£330 for the damage to the three wheels. 
Putting things right
Having carefully considered everything, I think MBFS should remove the charges for the 
following items:
1. Bumper front - £210
2. Bumper rear - £260
3. Quarter panel left hand rear - £260
4. Tyre left hand rear - £120.40
So, this leaves Miss T responsible for paying £330 for the damage caused to the three alloy 
wheels.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to carry out the actions as set out 
under the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman