DRN-4370050
The complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Barclaycard provided Mr W with a credit card with a limit of £400 in February 2022. The 
account was a credit builder card and the limit could not be increased in the first two years. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and Barclaycard had told us. And he 
concluded that whilst Barclaycards checks were proportionate, it had not made a fair lending 
decision. So he recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. 
Barclaycard disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Barclaycard needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Barclaycard needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Barclaycard says it agreed to Mr Ws application after it obtained information on his income 
and his disposable income. And carried out a credit search. It says the information obtained 
indicated that Mr W would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit 
card. On the other hand Mr W says that giving the card was irresponsible, it has caused him 
financial and mental stress which has led to anxiety and depression.
Ive considered what the parties have said. I can see that Barclaycard gathered certain 
information on Mr Ws circumstances before lending. This included his income and 
outgoings including existing credit commitments. It carried out a credit check to understand 
his credit history. From these checks combined Barclaycard concluded Mr W had £241.99 
monthly disposable income and so could afford to take on this card.
Given the low limit I find these checks were proportionate but I am not satisfied Barclaycard 
made a fair lending decision based on the results. Ill explain why.
The credit check showed that during 2021 Mr W had opened six loans, and two of these had 
missed payments in recent months. In September he opened a new loan as he settled 
another, suggesting he was borrowing to repay. And the terms of the loans suggests they 
were most likely high-cost credit, and at least two short-term. So, overall, I think there were 
signs that Mr W was under financial strain and so there was a high risk Mr W would need to 
borrow to repay any additional credit he took on, or suffer some other financial harm. And 
Barclaycard was obliged to consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
Barclaycard argues Mr W managed his account well  but it does not know how he did this 
and how he was funding his repayments so this does not change my conclusion.
It follows I find Barclaycard was wrong to lend to Mr W.
Putting things right
It is fair that Mr W repay the capital he borrowed as he has had benefit of that money. But it 
is unfair he pay interest and charges on a card that should not have been given to him.
So Barclaycard should:
Rework Mr Ws account to remove all interest, fees and charges 
If this results in a credit balance on the account, then this should be refunded to Mr 
W along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were made 
to the date of settlement. In this case, Barclaycard should remove any adverse 
information reported on Mr Ws credit file about this account; or 
If this results in an outstanding balance remaining on this account Barclaycard needs 
to ensure that Mr W is only liable for this adjusted balance and arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with him. Once Mr W has cleared the outstanding balance, any 
adverse information recorded about this account should be removed from his credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman