DRN-3670677
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt provide any reminder to him that he needed to 
fulfil the criteria to qualify for an account switching bonus by a set date.
What happened
Mr T switched his current account to Santander to take advantage of an account switching 
bonus being offered by Santander. To qualify for the bonus, a customer needed to fulfil 
certain criteria within 60 days of switching their account to Santander. Mr T didnt fulfil the 
necessary criteria within the 60 days, so Santander deemed Mr T as having not qualified for 
the bonus. Mr T wasnt happy about this and felt that Santander should have sent him a 
reminder of the action he needed to take to qualify for the bonus before the 60-day deadline 
had passed. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ts complaint. They confirmed that Mr T hadnt fulfilled the criteria 
needed to qualify for the bonus within the 60-day time limit. Santander also felt that the 
terms of the bonus offer were clearly communicated by them both online and personally to 
Mr T when hed first initiated the current account switch.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly towards Mr T in how theyd managed this situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the terms of the switching offer were clearly advertised by 
Santander, including the criteria that a customer would need to meet within 60-days of 
switching their account to Santander in order to qualify for the bonus payment that Mr T has 
complained about not receiving.
Santander have also explained that when Mr T opened his account with them, he would 
have been advised at that time of the criteria that needed to be met in order to qualify for the 
bonus payment. 
Notably, Mr T took action to meet one of the qualifying criteria  in the form of making a 
transfer of £1 into the account  on the same day that he opened the account. And I feel this 
suggests that Mr T was made aware of the criteria for the bonus payment when he opened 
the account, in line with Santanders process.
Im aware that Mr T feels that Santander should have made efforts to remind him that he 
needed to act to fulfil the remaining criteria to qualify for the bonus before the 60-day 
deadline had expired.
I dont share Mr Ts position on this matter. Rather, I feel it was incumbent on Mr T to have 
ensured that he fulfilled the necessary criteria to qualify for the bonus payment by the set 
deadline, if he wanted to qualify to receive it. And I dont feel that there was any requirement 
or obligation for Santander to have prompted Mr T to fulfil that criteria, given that the 
information about the criteria had already been provided to Mr T by Santander and was also 
well published, including on Santanders website.
Ultimately, I feel that the responsibility to ensure that the necessary qualifying criteria were 
fulfilled within the 60-day time limit rested with Mr T. And given that Mr T didnt take the 
action necessary to fulfil the bonus payment qualifying criteria within that timeframe, I dont 
feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards him by deeming his as not qualifying for the 
bonus payment.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I trust 
Mr T will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman