DRN-3841980
The complaint
Mr E complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
David Stock & Co Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to David Stock.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to David 
Stock which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr E was 39 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was described as 
being in good health and at the time.
Mr E lived in a home valued at around £350,000 with a mortgage outstanding of 
around £160,000 and 19 years left to run. David Stocks records as regards Mr Es 
earnings are inconsistent. However, from a file note the business made Ive taken 
the higher figure of around £38,000 per year (gross). Mrs E also worked and earned 
over £40,000. After expenses they had some disposable monthly income left over.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es BSPS was approximately 
£277,263. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr E had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions. 
It seems David Stock had a number of advice sessions with Mr E in the autumn of 2017 until 
his pension was eventually transferred in early 2018. The business set out its advice initially 
in a suitability report on 30 October 2017. There were further discussions about Mr Es 
attitude to risk (ATR) and the types of investments he might move his funds into. Ultimately, 
David Stock recommended that Mr E transfer away to a personal pension and use a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) to manage his funds and fund selection in the future. 
David Stock said this would allow Mr E to achieve his objectives. Mr E accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2022 Mr E complained to David Stock about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, David Stock said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr E had at the time. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of David Stock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, David Stock should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Es best interests. I have also carefully considered the final response letter from David Stock. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Financial viability 
David Stock referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr E was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
David Stock said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
BSPS, was 4.18% if Mr E took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free 
lump sum, the adviser implied the critical yield would be slightly lower but there was no 
apparent analysis or accurate critical yield behind this. David Stock also didnt calculate a 
critical yield rate for an earlier retirement, despite it saying Mr E had apparently expressed a 
desire to retire early. However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very 
long way off for Mr E and so I very much doubt whether retiring at 57 -to- 60, which is what 
was recorded, was anything more than something he just aspired to rather than being part of 
a real plan. However, as Ill say more about below, David Stock places some weight on early 
retirement as being a legitimate factor in the overall recommendation to transfer to a 
personal pension. So, if the adviser thought this was a credible part of the transfer rationale, 
they should have clearly set out the critical yields relating to an early retirement at the time. 
I havent calculated what a critical yield for retiring at, say 57, would have been. However, 
our investigator hypothesised that it could be higher and given my experience, I dont think 
that assertion is necessarily wrong. To be clear then, I think the failure to provide critical 
yield rates for retirement ages of around 57 and / or 60 was significant as this should have 
been shown to Mr E. These would have given him a much clearer picture and information 
with which he could make an informed decision.
In 2017 we were in a period of sustained low interest rates and bond yields. And I dont think 
that whatever critical yield figures one uses here, that there was any sound evidence that 
achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, 
was ever going to be achievable over a sustained period. I say this with the following in 
mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.6% per year for just over 25 years to retirement (age 65). If considering an early retirement, at the age of 57, the discount rate was only 4.4% (over 17 years to retirement). 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%.
At the time, David Stock assessed Mr Es ATR as moderately balanced although Ive noted 
the ATR discussion appears to have taken place after the suitability report had already been 
produced. I dont think Mr E was an experienced investor; he didnt own any shares at the 
time and theres some reliable evidence that he didnt want to accept much investment risk. 
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators lower-end projections and also to the discount rate were 
most relevant here in my view. So, I think growth assumptions of around 4 % were realistic 
here. Whilst this was very marginally above the critical yield figure for the BSPS2 and retiring 
at 65, it was likely below a similar scenario if retiring at 57. And because David Stock failed 
to show Mr E these different critical yield rates, there is certainly no clear evidence that by 
transferring away hed be financially better off. In fact, its very important to remember here 
that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being 
recommended to Mr E, would have further reduced the likely growth. Mr E was being 
charged fees by David Stock  and there were fund and management charges yet to come 
from the recommended DFM. These were all additional costs that I think Mr E would have 
found very difficult to work out. With a DB scheme he didnt have these costs. So, I think all 
this showed there would be a very real drag on performance. To even match the published 
critical yield rates, Mr Es investments would need to exceed beyond what I think David 
Stock was telling him. So overall, I think that achieving the stated and unstated critical 
yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
In my view, there would be little point in irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme at 
the age of 39 to obtain lower  or even similar benefits  to that scheme. There would be still 
less reason to take that course of action after deducting the fees and charges as Ive 
described above as these clearly implied growth outside the DB scheme would probably be 
lower. So there was a very real risk of Mr Es pension benefits being lower at retirement than 
they otherwise would be.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, David Stocks own transfer analysis said that even 
in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £401,070. These figures are 
found in David Stocks own analysis based on data the regulator required businesses to 
refer to at the time. To be clear, the sum above was to buy a much inferior pension. And 
because this was far above Mr Es CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into 
the value of the guaranteed pension Mr E could be giving up by transferring away to a 
personal plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, David Stock also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. David Stock said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and I dont think Mr E would have wanted to transfer 
to this scheme. Again, there were no critical yields for retiring earlier and I reiterate that the 
effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being 
recommended to Mr E, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, David Stocks 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr E would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS2. 
Ive also considered some projections David Stock used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr E well into retirement. Again, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair 
to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What David Stock was showing Mr E were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to David Stock, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme options alone. Rather, David Stock said Mr E also had other reasons to transfer 
away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer 
was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
David Stock recommended and transacted a transfer to a personal pension plan based on 
what it said were Mr Es wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from 
the advice sessions to summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation 
to transfer away. 
However, I think the suitability report was a poor document. This was the advisers 
opportunity to set out clearly what the options were and the rationale behind any 
recommendations that were being made. In my view, it lacked clarity. To be clear, it was 
David Stock that was the regulated party here and Mr E was being charged for its advice. 
So, the adviser wasnt just there to transact what Mr E  an inexperienced amateur  thought 
might have been a good idea. The advisers role was to fully examine Mr and Mrs Es 
situation and provide advice that was in the clients best interests.
However, the adviser said in the suitability report that Mr E was single and that he might 
therefore not need the DB schemes spouse death benefits; I can only assume this 
erroneous information was from another clients report. References were made to what other 
steelworkers might or might or do which I dont think was appropriate. And the overall 
transfer-away rationale just wasnt brought out in the open in a clear way. But Ive drawn out 
the following themes as being significant in the overall recommendation for Mr E to transfer 
to a personal pension arrangement.
David Stock said Mr E wanted to retire early. The ages of 57 -to- 60 were mentioned.
By transferring, he could have greater flexibility and control over his pension. 
Mr E was worried about the financial security of the DB scheme(s) on offer.
Transferring would ensure the full value of any fund could be inherited as a death 
benefit.
The transfer value was high.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring earlyIve taken into account that Mr E approached David Stock for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
But as Ive mentioned above, Mr E was still only 39 years old and in good health. In this 
context, I think David Stocks adviser saying Mr E had specific uses for his retirement funds 
lacked any credibility. 
I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Es very young age by pension 
standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr E  understandably - had no concrete 
plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 25 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly 
use the money for, or how much he thought he might need, should have been major 
influences in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved 
an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at 
retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr E probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this.
I also think David Stocks dealings with this issue are contradictory. To a large degree, it is 
still defending the complaint on the grounds of greater flexibility, not least because of a 
desire to retire considerably earlier than the NRA. 57 is very early to cease working and I 
think its fair to say that substantial planning, backed up by financial resources, is required. 
However, if 57 really was a retirement age being targeted here, then the critical yields should 
have been published and there ought to have been a clear pathway explaining how such an 
early retirement was possible. I dont think any of this was present in this case.
Flexibility 
I also cant see that Mr E required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by David Stock. I therefore think this was no more 
than a standard objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a 
personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr E required changing how his 
retirement benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still 
so far away from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with 
the new TATA DC fund. This was being contributed towards by both Mr E and his employer 
and still had up to 25 years left to run (17 years if he did eventually retire very early). So, this 
other pension would have afforded Mr E any flexibility he might have needed in the years 
ahead.
Again, on this specific point, I think the suitability report was very unclear. It even said at one 
point that our reaction is to generally dissuade you, as to an extent that is our role, and to 
highlight the major disadvantage of managing your own pension. I take this to mean that 
the adviser themselves had some serious reservations  but David Stock went on, 
nonetheless, to recommend that Mr E ought to transfer to a specific product overseen by a 
DFM. 
Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr E wouldnt want to continue membership of a DB 
scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I think 
that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr E could have been in a very agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other 
hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  up to 25 
years. So, if Mr E ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the 
latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr E had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr E was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr E himself had no experience of these types of money market investments. I accept that 
he may have had a basic understanding of pensions and he also had his new DC pension 
with TATA. But Ive seen nothing showing the investment strategy for this pension was 
anything other than an off the shelf mix of investments commonly found in most company 
DC schemes. So, I think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of 
managing over £277,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. 
What Ive seen tends to show Mr E would have required ongoing financial advice and 
support, all of which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
David Stock itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the 
unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a relatively 
young age. Mr E might have even speculated that he might need a certain amount of annual 
pension when he retired, cited in todays money. However, in my view this could only ever 
be guesswork because retirement was decades away for Mr E. He had a pre-school child. 
He had a mortgage with years left to run and what looked like normal household debts to 
pay down. Mr E, in my view, could also realistically be said only to be in mid-career and it 
looks to me as if Mrs E had a career which was important to her too. In short, he and Mrs E 
still had their whole lives ahead of them. So, theres simply no reason for me to address any 
estimated retirement income in these circumstances because this was all so far away and 
transferring was very clearly unsuitable whilst still both in their 30s. No-one could predict 
what their retirement would look like.
I therefore think Mr Es circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him being able to build a pathway in the years ahead to retiring earlier than 65 if he felt he 
really needed to. There would have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his 
age at the time. And because Mr E had another pension too, there was the capacity for him 
to increase contributions to this new DC scheme. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr E died. Mr E was married and had children so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs E if he predeceased her. I dont think 
David Stock made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
I think the adviser told Mr E that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated and that a DB pension was more restrictive in 
this regard. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was 
probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr E. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think David Stock explored 
to what extent Mr E was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr E was only 39 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr E had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 57 -to-60 was at least mentioned. The adviser should 
have therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 57 would likely have many 
years ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left 
to pass on to someone.
I think life insurance was probably discussed although I cant say to what extent. But at 39 
years old, a term life insurance policy would have been a reasonably affordable product if 
Mr E really did want to leave a large lump sum legacy, rather than an annual pension, for a 
specific relative or someone other than a spouse. But more so, it doesnt appear that David 
Stock took into account the fact that Mr E could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his other DC scheme. Its easy to dismiss this because at the time this had only 
really just started. But this would have seen decades of contributions in the times ahead. So, 
to this end, Mr E already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with 
him. There was no need to transfer.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Es situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
David Stock said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and David Stock said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was David Stocks obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that David Stock 
should have reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr E through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to David Stocks recommendation to Mr E to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Use of a DFM and suitability of investments
David Stock recommended that Mr E invest his funds in a personal pension and use a DFM 
to manage them. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr E and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of 
the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised 
to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr E was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
I dont think it was in Mr Es best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I think David 
Stock should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr E still had 
many more years before he intended to retire and it was far too early to predict what his 
retirement might look like. I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be 
offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. But by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr E would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. David Stock did raise this point. I accept that 
David Stock disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr E, and provided him with a 
certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr E to transfer out, and I think Mr E 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against David Stocks advice. I say this because Mr E was likely an inexperienced investor 
and this pension accounted for virtually all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if David 
Stock had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Finally, David Stock should have known that a higher CETV wasnt a prominent reason to 
transfer, especially in someone so far off retirement.
In light of the above, I think David Stock should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for David Stocks unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. David Stock 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
David Stock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
David Stock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, David Stock should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts David Stocks offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, David Stock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Our investigator recommended that David Stock should pay Mr E for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr E in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr E. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. David Stock should pay Mr E this amount in addition to the redress Ive 
set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct David Stock 
& Co Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman