DRN-3261454
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of C, complains that Santander UK Plc didnt credit Cs account with a 
number of cheque deposits.
What happened
Mr M says he deposited a number of cheques and cash to be credited to Cs Santander 
account. He says the cash totalled £1,207 and the cheques totalled £472. Mr M says C is his 
window cleaning company and it has about 500 customers. Mr M says the cash was credited 
to Cs account, but the cheques were not. He says he was able to provide Santander with 
some of the cheque details and it traced and credited those. But he couldnt provide details 
of the others which totalled £297 or trace the customers in question as his records are not 
sophisticated enough.
Santander says it has apologised for what took place and accepts there was a known 
problem with cheque deposits at that time. It says if Mr M can provide information on the 
cheques then it can try and trace them and says it has paid £75 compensation for what took 
place. Santander says it provides online guidance on cheque deposits and recommends 
records are kept of each cheque details.
Mr M brought Cs complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander provided guidance on cheque deposits which Mr M didnt follow. And 
thought the compensation of £75 appropriate. The investigator didnt think it helpful that Cs 
accountant had lost the receipt for the cheques and thought Santander acted reasonably by 
requesting the cheque details.
Mr M, on behalf of C, doesnt accept that view.
I asked both sides for further information and for confirmation that the account was in Cs 
name, which has been confirmed by both sides. I asked Mr M for Cs records and 
information about why it couldnt trace which customers had paid him. Mr M says some 
customers pay cash, but some pay by cheque and he cant trace those that paid by cheque. 
I also asked Santander for the paying in slip. It says it doesnt have a record of the slip but 
accepts some cheques went missing. Santander says C should have better records.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and provisionally upheld it.
I said there could be no dispute that Mr M on behalf of C made a deposit of cash and 
cheques in December 2021. I could see Cs account statement and saw the cash credited to 
the account and that amount corresponds to the extract I had seen from Cs company 
records. I didnt think there could be any doubt that at least some cheques were also paid 
into Cs account as Santander was able to trace some of them and those amounts were also 
credited to Cs account.
I also said there was no dispute here that Santander accepts that it lost at least some 
cheques as it has apologised and paid compensation of £75. So, it follows that the key 
question here was did Mr M deposit cheques that totalled £472 and if the answer to that was 
yes, then should Santander be responsible for refunding C that amount less the money it 
has credited.
I appreciated Santander says it provides information on cheque deposits on its website and 
that it suggests customers keep records. But I said that information is not part of the account 
terms and conditions and there was no guarantee a customer would be aware of that 
information. I also thought it reasonable for a customer to expect that a bank or building 
society will not lose cheques deposited in good faith.
I also appreciated that Cs records were not as detailed as they could be. But I accepted that 
the nature of Cs work with a large number of relatively small payments made it difficult and 
unreasonable to expect C to be able to keep records of each cheque. I looked carefully at 
the information C has provided and could see that its records show that £1,207 was 
deposited in cash and £472 in cheques. That figure corresponds to the amount Mr M says 
he deposited, and I thought was the only record either side could provide about the cheque 
values. So, I thought on balance Mr M did deposit £472 in cheques and couldnt see why he 
would report that amount on Cs company accounts if it were not accurate as C would be 
responsible any tax due on it.
Overall, I was satisfied Santander did lose some of the deposited cheques and that on 
balance I accepted that they totalled £472 in total. I was satisfied some cheques were 
recovered but it unreasonable and impossible for C to be able to provide individual cheque 
details to allow further traces. In any event I made clear that I didnt think the £75 
compensation for the inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable but thought on balance 
the fairest approach would be for Santander to pay C the balance of £297 for the 
unrecovered cheques rather than increase the compensation award itself. I thought the 
inconvenience here would have been significant and require C to attempt to trace numerous 
customers from an overall total of 500 and attend their homes to check if they paid by 
cheque and if the cheque was cashed. I said it follows that I would consider such 
inconvenience would justify a compensation payment at or around the same level as the 
proposed payment of £297.
Santander has replied to my provisional view and has said on this occasion it will pay the 
proposed amount but would like to remind C about its policy of cheque deposits and the 
importance of keeping records.
Mr M on behalf of C accepts my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same decision I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.
Putting things right
I intend to order Santander to pay C £297 which it has fairly agreed to do.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay C £297.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman