DRN-3964481
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost as the result of an 
investment scam.
Mr Cs complaint has been brought by a representative, for ease of reading I will refer solely 
to Mr C in this decision.
What happened
Mr C has explained that in 2021 he made the following Faster Payments from his Lloyds 
current account, for what he thought was a legitimate investment with a company Ill call K.  
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
payment Merchant Amount (£)Running 
total
1 28 April 2021Faster 
Payment Binance £10 £10
2 28 April 2021Faster 
Payment Binance £1,000 £1,010
3 18 May 2021Faster 
Payment Binance £650 £1,660
4 6 June 2021Faster 
Payment Binance £2,300 £3,960
5 29 August 2021Faster 
PaymentPayPal *Media 
SEO £894.06 £4,854.06
6 23 September 2021Faster 
PaymentGlobal DLT 
Exchange £894.06 £5,748.12
7 23 September 2021Faster 
Payment Global DLT 
Exchange£894.06 
(Credit) £4,854.06
8 25 November 2021Faster 
Payment Coinbase £100 £4,954.06
9 25 November 2021Faster 
Payment Coinbase £2,750 £7,704.06
                                                                                                                     
Total £7,704.06 £7,704.06
When Mr C subsequently got in touch with Lloyds to explain hed been scammed, Lloyds 
didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint about 
Lloyds to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr C authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. So although Mr C didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
Mr C didnt pay the scammers directly and instead sent the funds to legitimate crypto 
exchanges; Binance, PayPal and Coinbase. From there, his purchased crypto was sent to 
the scammers. So, I dont think the payees alone ought to have caused particular concern to 
Lloyds. 
That said, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In terms of prevention, given the size of the scam payments and the time and space 
between them, Im not persuaded there would have been anything sufficiently suspicious 
about these transactions for Lloyds to have been obliged to block the payments pending 
enquiries with Mr C before letting them through. As Lloyds didnt interact with Mr C at the 
material times the transactions were sent, Ive looked at whether there would have been any 
other reason for Lloyds to have intervened. 
In reference to the table in the background section of this decision; Transaction 1 was for 
£10, I dont think this was unusual. Ive noted that Mr C says he didnt spend more than £200 
on a monthly basis during the period of the scam but when considering Transaction 2, I cant 
reasonably say that a single transaction of £1,000 being paid to an account in Mr Cs name 
should have warranted further checks. I dont think this would have appeared unusual 
enough when considering that customers from time to time, can make larger payments than 
usual. Transaction 3 was sent almost three weeks after Transaction 2 and again, I dont 
think the amount of £650 was all that unusual when considering Mr Cs normal account 
activity. I recognise Transaction 4 was a larger single transaction when compared to how Mr 
C normally uses his account but by this point, hed already made three undisputed payments 
to the same payee over a five-week period and none of the transactions (nor the subsequent 
transactions) depleted his account balance (which could be an indicator of fraud). I dont 
think this payment was so unusual that Lloyds should have reasonably suspected Mr C was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud. I dont think Transactions 5, Transaction 6 or Transaction 
8 were unusual when considering Mr Cs normal account spend.  
I recognise Transaction 9 was the largest single payment in dispute but by the time it was 
sent (almost seven months after Mr C began sending money to crypto exchange accounts in 
his name), the normal account activity for Mr C had changed. Hed made several undisputed 
payments to crypto exchanges and therefore, the payment of £2,750 to Coinbase didnt 
appear out of place when considering his payment history to crypto exchanges over several 
months. And so, I dont find that this payment was unusual when considering how Mr C had 
used his account in the seven months leading up to it. 
Ive noted Mr Cs comments that his payments went to crypto exchanges but not all 
payments to crypto exchanges are made as the result of a scam. And Lloyds needs to 
balance its obligations to monitor and detect potential fraud whilst also allowing customers to 
make payments as they wish. And sometimes, this will include customers making one-off 
payments that are larger than usual. 
Overall, I dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity to prevent any of Mr Cs losses. 
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Lloyds 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds and that this caused Mr Cs loss.In relation to the transactions to Binance and Coinbase, as Mr C didnt pay the scammers 
directly and instead paid legitimate crypto exchange accounts in his name, his payments 
would have been converted to crypto before being sent to the scammer. I therefore think 
Lloyds had no reasonable prospect of recovering Mr Cs payments and if theyd tried, 
Coinbase and Binance would have likely explained the funds had already been utilised. 
In relation to the PayPal transaction (Transaction 5), Mr Cs only method of recovery through 
Lloyds would have been via the Visa chargeback scheme. But as Mr C didnt report the 
scam to Lloyds until January 2022, he would have been out of time for Lloyds to have 
processed a chargeback claim. Visas required time limit for this payment would have been 
120 days from the date of the transaction. And so Lloyds wouldnt have been able to process 
a chargeback claim as Mr C contacted them more than 120 days after this transaction had 
taken place. 
Ive not considered recovery of the payment to Global DLT as this appears to have been 
refunded to Mr C in the subsequent transaction. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds could have recovered any of Mr Cs payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman