DRN-3307597
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) treated her after she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs D noticed two debits from her Co-op current account for £85 and £89. She 
reported the matter to Co-op which provided a refund of the payment while it looked into 
things. It contacted the merchant that took the payments which confirmed it had Mrs Ds 
genuine details and the payments were genuine. So Co-op wrote to Mrs D on 17 September 
2020 confirming the payments would be re-debited from her account although it didnt take 
back the money. Mrs D thought it had, and remained unhappy it was holding her liable for 
the payments.
In November 2020 Mrs D was contacted by a scammer claiming to be from Co-op. She was 
told someone had tried to set up a direct debit of £94 from her account and she needed to 
protect her money by moving it to a safe account. She moved £2,000 to an account 
provided by the scammer.
Mrs D discovered shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Co-op to report this. Shes 
explained she spoke to a number of people who she felt were rude and dismissive and 
showed no empathy towards her or her situation. 
Co-op initially declined to reimburse Mrs D for her loss and she brought the complaint to our 
service to consider. Co-op then reconsidered its position and agreed to reimburse her for her 
loss in full. Its said when it was initially speaking to Mrs D, it wasnt clear whether or not 
shed made the payment herself but having reviewed additional information it accepted shed 
been the victim of a scam. It offered £100 in compensation for the customer service shed 
received. Mrs D accepted the reimbursement of the money shed lost but remained unhappy 
with the treatment shed received from Co-op and felt more compensation was due. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt Co-op had acted reasonably in 
relation to the scams themselves given the information available to it. And although they felt 
some of the conversations with Mrs D couldve been handled more sensitively, overall the 
compensation offered was reasonable. As Mrs D didnt accept this, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this situation has been very difficult for Mrs D. Being the victim of fraud, and 
suspecting shes been the victim of fraud has obviously been very stressful and upsetting for 
her. But Ive taken into account some of the distress shes suffered has come about as a 
result of the scam rather than Co-ops actions. I also wanted to begin by explaining its not 
the case that just because Mrs D had been the victim of fraud it followed that Co-op was 
automatically responsible for her loss and needed to refund her money. There are only 
limited circumstances where a bank might be liable for this and it was entitled to consider 
and investigate whether or not it was in her particular case.
Ive read all of the correspondence both parties have provided and have noted the questions 
and requests Mrs D has made in relation to her complaint. Although I have taken them into 
account and have considered them very carefully, I wont necessarily be responding to all of 
her requests or answering all of her demands. This isnt intended to be a discourtesy, but its 
a reflection of the fact we are an informal service and my role is to consider her main 
complaint.
Ive gone into more detail below but overall I dont think Co-op treated her unfairly and I think 
the £100 offered in compensation is appropriate in this case so I havent recommended 
more.
Payments of £89 and £85
Part of Mrs Ds complaint is that shes unhappy that Co-op reimbursed her two fraudulent 
payments of £89 and £85 in July 2020 and then took these amounts back. She maintains 
these amounts were taking fraudulently from her account. I want to begin by confirming 
these amounts werent taken back by Co-op as far as I can see so Mrs D hasnt suffered any 
financial loss. But even if it hadnt, I dont think this wouldve been unreasonable here.
Upon investigating this claim, which Co-op was entitled to do, the merchant (the company 
that took Mrs Ds money) could show Co-op they had Mrs Ds genuine name, address, email 
address and phone number in addition to her card details. And Mrs D was told when she first 
reported what she suspected was fraud that Co-op may take the money back if the merchant 
could show they had her genuine details, such as name and address which is what 
happened. 
And overall, I think the evidence suggests Mrs D made these payments herself. Mrs D 
initially said shed never signed up for anything so didnt authorise the payments. In a later 
call she seems to have suggested she did sign up for a 30 day subscription and authorised 
the payments but didnt receive the goods she was promised. Shes since provided a letter 
confirming she did sign up for a free trial and was informed she would be charged unless the 
trial was cancelled. And because she was informed she would be charged and accepted 
this, this means she authorised the payments.
But in addition, Mrs D wasnt able to provide any point of compromise for her card details 
and other information. And its not typical of a fraudster, if they had access to someones 
card details, to only sign up for subscriptions for goods they wouldnt receive and could be 
noticed and cancelled by the card holder at any time. 
Overall, I think its likely these payments were authorised by Mrs D and so shes liable for 
them. Im not suggesting shes deliberately tried to be dishonest with Co-op. Based on 
everything Ive seen and heard around her interactions with the bank, it seems more likely to 
me she was genuinely confused about the services shed signed up to. But, in any event, Im 
pleased to see Co-op has reimbursed her for this loss so I dont think theres anything further 
for me to consider.
Mrs D has said shes unhappy with what shes described as an incorrect procedure followed 
by Co-op because it told her a dispute couldnt be raised in relation to a fraudulent claim. I 
dont agree any incorrect procedure has been followed. Mrs D initially insisted shed been 
the victim of fraud and the payments were made without her knowledge or consent. It is 
correct that she then wouldnt also be able to raise a dispute with the merchant that the contract she entered into with it was somehow unfulfilled, because shed argued she hadnt 
entered into one at all. It was only much later she suggested she did authorise the 
payments, and she had already been reimbursed for them at this point. Co-op only ever 
couldve acted based upon the information she provided, which it has done here.
Has Co-op provided sufficient customer service?
Mrs D has explained her main ongoing concern is the way she was treated by Co-op and 
shes gone into considerable detail, highlighting over 100 moments during 34 calls she feels 
demonstrate how Co-op has mistreated her. As Ive mentioned, reflective of the informal 
nature of our service, Im not going to respond to these points individually.
I have listened to all of the calls provided by Mrs D, many of which dont directly relate to the 
fraud claims Ive outlined above. I understand that Mrs D was upset and had just been the 
victim of a scam, and I fully accept her account of the impact it had on her and her strength 
of feeling. But Ive also listened to the calls myself from an impartial perspective, taking into 
account that banks are entitled to investigate and question claims of fraud and that 
sometimes these questions do need to be robust. Whilst this mightve felt unconfortable for 
Mrs D, this doesnt mean Co-op was wrong in questioning her or trying to clarify the 
information she provided. Overall, I havent found Co-op treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably.
In particular, Mrs D feels she was treated poorly after she reported the safe account scam 
she fell victim to which involved the transfer of £2,000. Mrs D had numerous calls with Co-op 
regarding this scam, most of which seem to be because Co-op was trying to get to the 
bottom of what actually happened. 
What I think was the cause of this, is that Mrs D said she didnt give any of her personal 
online banking login details to the scammer and she didnt download anything that allowed 
them to access her online banking. Shes said she received a security code for the payment 
and didnt give this to anyone and typed it into her online banking herself. But she also said 
firmly, numerous times, in many calls, that she didnt make the transfer herself. Shes very 
certain about this. Co-op could see, and has provided evidence, that the payments were 
made from a device that has been used to access Mrs Ds online banking before and an IP 
address that has been used on many occasions  both likely to be Mrs Ds own. 
So, what Mrs D said about the scam was contradictory and at odds with everything we 
currently understand about how scams work. She was essentially describing a scenario 
where no-one else couldve accessed her account, but they also didnt coerce or trick her 
into making the payment herself. So Co-op wasnt provided with any explanation as to how 
the payments were made. And this is very important. As Ive said, the bank isnt 
automatically liable for Mrs Ds loss, it needs to consider what its responsibilities are and a 
key part of this is understanding who made the payment.
It could be this inconsistent information was due to Mrs Ds confusion, or because she was 
afraid of explaining what had happened and feeling vulnerable after shed been the victim of 
a scam. Co-op wouldve been reasonable in declining her claim at that point, but it didnt. 
Instead, clearly concerned she was confused or needed additional support, I think staff 
made genuine and comprehensive attempts to try and understand what happened and 
asked her sufficiently probing questions sensitively to try and get to the bottom of things. I 
dont think it accused her of being a liar as Mrs D has suggested. 
Mrs D requested and listened to all the call recordings between her and Co-op, and at times 
heard discussion of her case between staff members. Shes listed particular comments she 
feels demonstrate staff were trying to blame her or force her to admit she was at fault. But I think many of these comments are simply staff speaking to each other less formally than 
they might to a customer and dont demonstrate any bias or ulterior motives. Although some 
comments arent particularly sensitive, I think they were reflective of what Ive said above. I 
think they were trying to establish what really happened to give her the best possible chance 
of being reimbursed for her loss because what shed told the bank wasnt plausible. 
Some individuals Mrs D spoke to were less compassionate towards her, but I dont think 
anyone she spoke to was rude or unprofessional. Overall I think they were just trying to give 
her every possible opportunity to explain what had happened and essentially give her the 
best chance of receiving a reimbursement of her money. Ultimately Co-op couldnt create 
Mrs Ds story for her. It had to base its findings on what she had told it, not what it 
suspected. And the onus was on Mrs D to provide an accurate account of what happened.
I can see that Co-op took longer than required to respond to Mrs Ds complaint and I accept 
this wouldve been frustrating at an already difficult time. But delays can occur in busier than 
usual periods unfortunately. I can see it informed her of her right to bring the complaint to our 
service, so I think it did what I wouldve expected in the circumstances.
Mrs D has suggested Co-ops mistreatment of her has left her vulnerable to other types of 
scams. She hasnt been more specific about this, but I dont feel Ive seen any evidence to 
suggest this is the case. And, as I understand it she hasnt suffered any further loss or been 
the victim of any further scams. I would also add it isnt Co-ops sole responsibility to protect 
Mrs Ds account, the responsibility is also hers. If she does feel she is vulnerable and needs 
additional support, it may be that she would need to arrange for additional help outside of 
relying on what Co-op can assist her with.
I think there are points throughout Co-ops interactions with Mrs D where she is confused 
about various issues, the ones mentioned above, but also access to her online banking, 
where perhaps she does need additional support. But Im satisfied Co-op has provided the 
appropriate level of support to its customer. For example, some of the issues with accessing 
her online banking seem to relate to potential use of her devices, rather than an issue with 
something Co-op would be responsible for. 
Should Co-op have reimbursed Mrs D for her loss of £2,000 sooner?
Although Co-op ultimately decided to reimburse Mrs D for her loss in full, she remains 
unhappy that it didnt make this decision from the outset. She says there was no new 
information provided to it that changed its position. 
For some of the reasons Ive outline above, I disagree. As Ive explained, Mrs D insisted she 
did not make payment to the scammers on many occasions, during many different calls. And 
because of the way different scams are considered, what she was saying wasnt plausible or 
consistent with the type of scam she was describing. So I think Co-op was reasonable in not 
refunding her based on what shed said. When we contacted Co-op we summarised Mrs Ds 
complaint based on our understanding of what shed said and stated shed moved the 
money herself. 
It seems this is something Co-op suspected, but wasnt told by Mrs D. So based on this new 
information, it decided to reimburse her for her loss. The confirmation that Mrs D had made 
the payment herself, meant she had been the victim of an authorised push payment (APP 
scam) where scammers had convinced her to transfer money from her account to a safe 
account. This still didnt mean Co-op was automatically liable for refunding this money to Mrs 
D. But on this occasion Im glad to see it decided to fully reimburse her for her loss without 
any further investigation. It may be the case that Co-op has done more than we wouldve recommended in this case, 
but either way, if we considered it liable for Mrs Ds loss wed be asking it to put her back in 
the position she wouldve been in had the scam not occurred. This is what its done. I dont 
think Co-op acted unreasonably in relation to this point and I dont think it needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the £100 offered by The Co-operative Bank Plc is 
sufficient and no further compensation is due. If it hasnt already it should pay Mrs D this 
amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman