DRN-3882211
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank Plc paid him for the 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an overdraft that was opened in October 1993. Barclays mis-sold 
PPI to Mr G for this overdraft. The PPI started some time between when the account was 
opened in 1993, and the earliest available records from 1998.
In 2014, Barclays offered Mr G compensation for mis-selling the PPI. In 2017, they got in 
touch with him again as theyd recalculated their offer more accurately and found that they 
owed him some more money.
The compensation was based on Mr Gs available statements, which only went back to 
January 1998. Mr G complained that hed had the PPI for longer than that, though he didnt 
have any evidence of the exact date it started. So Barclays agreed to work things out again, 
from a start point that was halfway between when the overdraft was opened and when their 
earliest records began.
Mr G didnt feel that was fair. He said hed had PPI from the start, though he couldnt 
evidence this as it was too long ago. He felt that Barclays owed him more, not least as they 
often added charges to the account.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and Barclays a provisional decision on 5 December 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Barclays have already offered Mr G fair 
compensation here.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd be in now if theyd never been sold the policy  as far as its possible to do 
that.
For an account like Mr Gs, that means refunding the PPI premiums, and the interest and 
fees that were charged because of those premiums. It also means adding 8% simple 
interest, to compensate Mr G for the time where he was out of pocket, then taking off tax 
which HMRC makes them take off. And thats what Barclays have done here.
Mr G mentioned that hed added up all the charges from his current account, and found that 
they came to a higher amount. But to clarify, Barclays refund isnt for every single fee he 
was ever charged on his current account. They were only refunding the PPI, and any fees 
caused by the PPI.
For example, lets take a situation where Mr G was charged a fee for going over his limit in a 
particular month. Barclays look at what would have happened without PPI. If, without PPI, 
Mr G would have stayed under his limit that month and not been charged the fee, then 
Barclays refund that fee. Whereas if Mr G would have still been over his limit even without 
the PPI, then Barclays would not refund that fee. Thats why Mr G didnt necessarily get a 
refund of all the fees ever charged  Barclays only had to refund the fees that were caused 
by the PPI policy.
I also understand that Mr G recalls having PPI from the start of the overdraft, in 1993. But 
because of the time thats passed, theres no evidence of that. So I cant fairly conclude that 
he definitely took out the PPI back then  theres every chance he took it out after that. 
The only evidence we have of when Mr G started paying for PPI is the first premium on his 
first available statement in January 1998. Though of course, its unlikely that Mr G just 
happened to take out PPI at the same time that the earliest records go back to.
The PPI was taken out at some point between October 1993 and January 1998. And we 
need to be fair to both sides. To start the refund from the start of the overdraft would be most 
favourable to Mr G, but most unfavourable to Barclays. And to start the refund from the day 
the records happen to begin would be most favourable to Barclays, but most unfavourable to 
Mr G. So to treat both sides fairly and equally, it seems that the most reasonable thing to do 
is to start the calculation at the halfway point between those dates  November 1995. And 
again, thats what Barclays have now done here.
So from what Ive seen, it looks like Barclays have already offered Mr G fair compensation. 
So I dont plan to tell them to work out anything differently.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 January 2023. Barclays didnt add anything further. Mr G added some comments, which 
Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said that the assumed start date should not be favourable to Barclays. But the start 
date used here is not favourable to Barclays in particular, nor is it biased towards Mr G. Its 
fair to both sides. And thats our services role: were here to be independent and resolve 
things fairly for both sides. Were not only fair to just one side or the other.Mr G said that the PPI started from the start. But thats the whole issue  we dont have 
any objective evidence to show when the exact start was. All we know is that the PPI started 
at some point between the opening of the overdraft in 1993 and the first recorded premium 
in 1998. Theres absolutely no guarantee that the PPI started at the same time as the 
overdraft  its normal for customers to take out insurance later on. So in order to treat both 
sides fairly, it makes the most sense to take a start point that is halfway between those two 
dates  as any other assumed start date would favour one side more than the other.
Mr G mentioned being unhappy with what happened on his loan and credit card as well. To 
be clear, in this case I have only considered the PPI and related charges for his overdraft, as 
that is the complaint that was brought to us.
Lastly, Mr G expressed unhappiness with tax being taken off the redress. To clarify, tax was 
only taken off for the 8% simple interest portion of the compensation  no tax was taken off 
the refund of the premiums, nor the contractual interest or charges. And Barclays were 
required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to take off that tax, so they were correct to do 
so. If Mr G is unhappy with HMRC taking tax from compensatory interest, or if he is exempt 
from paying tax to HMRC, then he can contact HMRC directly to dispute the tax taken off.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that 
Barclays have already offered Mr G fair compensation for the mis-sale of this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman