DRN-4107463
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss T opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in October 2016. At that point his 
credit limit was set at £100. It was increased several times over the course of the agreement 
until in October 2019 it was £1,500. 
Miss T says that she struggled to repay the credit. She intimates that Studio Retail didnt do 
enough to check she could afford the credit.
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss T and before it 
increased Miss Ts credit limit and that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our investigator thought that Miss Ts complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Miss T, through her representative, did not agree. But she didnt provide any more 
information or explain why she disagreed.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ts complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Ts income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Studio Retail has explained that it did checks through a credit bureau when the account was 
opened and when the limit was increased. The evidence it has now of those checks is 
limited because of the length of time since they happened. However, at account opening it 
says there was no evidence of any recent defaults on other credit, or any County Court 
Judgements or debt management plans. The bureau data provided an assessment of 
affordability and indebtedness which caused Studio Retail no concern and Miss Ts 
creditworthiness was considered to be good.
Miss Ts opening credit limit was only £100, which meant sustainable repayments if she 
used all of that credit straightaway would have been in the region of £5 a month. I think on 
this basis Studio Retail did sufficient checks.
There were five small increases from November 2016 to February 2017 at which point the 
limit was £500. But there is nothing in the limited credit check information provided by Studio 
Retail or in the way Miss T managed her account which might have suggested that Miss T 
couldnt afford to repay the credit. I think that Studio Retail conducted necessary and 
proportionate checks in relation to these increases.
It is arguable that later in the relationship, before further credit limit increases were provided, 
Studio Retail should have sought more information from Miss T about her circumstances. I 
can see that Miss T made a late payment in December 2017 (although Miss T made up the 
repayment within a couple of days). It may have been appropriate for Studio Retail to ask 
Miss T more about her income and expenditure, although I acknowledge that Miss T was 
only using a small proportion of her existing credit limit.
I can see that Miss T began to get into financial difficulty in March 2021. She was furloughed 
and eventually lost her job. But this was after Studio Retail made its decisions about offering 
her credit.
When Miss T responded to our investigators view, she didnt say what it was about the view 
that she disagreed with. She did say shed try to provide bank statements from the time. This 
might have shown that the limited information Studio Retail had at the time of each lending 
decision wasnt sufficient to support its decisions to increase her credit limit, or that the 
information it had was incorrect. But Miss T didnt supply those bank statements, so I cant 
know with any certainty that if Studio Retail did all the checks it needed to do that it would 
have seen anything to suggest Miss T couldnt afford the borrowing. 
For this reason, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that Studio Retail didnt 
complete proportionate checks or, in the alternative, if it didnt complete proportionate 
checks that if it had done them, it would have seen anything which might have made it act 
differently and not provide the original lending or credit limit increases. And I cant say that 
Miss T lost out as a result of anything Studio Retail might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint so it follows that Studio Retail Limited doesnt have to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman