DRN-3460496
The complaint
Mrs M complains Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt tell her when accounts with higher interest 
rates became available.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Our service doesnt have the power to tell Shawbrook how they should manage 
accounts, or what interest rates to apply to them. However, we can investigate 
whether Shawbrook has acted fairly and reasonably, given the relevant terms and 
conditions that apply to Mrs Ms accounts. So, for me to say Shawbrook treated 
Mrs M unfairly, Id need to be satisfied shes been treated differently to other 
customers with similar circumstances.
Shawbrook has explained that savings accounts with a different interest rate would 
be deemed a new product. Theyve also said that regardless of whether those new 
products have a higher or lower interest rate, its not their policy to reach out to 
existing customers and tell them about the latest products available. To determine 
whether thats the case, Ive considered what Mrs M would have been told about her 
accounts.
Mrs Ms accounts were ones that could only be opened online, so I looked at the 
information available on Shawbrooks website. Having done so, I can see Shawbrook 
clearly explains the interest rates are variable. However, there is nothing to suggest 
Shawbrook would upgrade these types of accounts if a higher interest rate became 
available.
Shawbrooks website advises customers to read the key product information that 
applies to the accounts Mrs M holds. And in two separate places, it tells customers to 
read the terms and conditions for personal savings accounts. I was pleased to see 
their website referred customers to the relevant section of the terms and conditions 
that explained interest rate changes. This information persuades me Shawbrook took 
sufficient steps to highlight where customers could find information about what would 
happen if interest rates changed.
Ive reviewed both the key product information and terms and conditions, and 
nowhere does it say an account will be automatically upgraded if a higher interest 
rate product becomes available. They also dont say Shawbrook will contact 
customers when different products become available. I consider this is in line with 
what Shawbrook explained in their final response to Mrs M. 
Ive seen nothing that persuades me this approach isnt applied to all Shawbrook 
customers. Because of this, I cant reasonably say Shawbrook has treated Mrs M 
differently to other customers with similar circumstances. Its for this reason I cant 
fairly say Shawbrook acted unreasonably when it didnt change Mrs Ms accounts 
when products with different rates became available  or proactively tell her about 
those products. 
The terms and conditions do say a customer can move their balance from one 
Shawbrook savings account to another. Shawbrook has confirmed they arranged for 
Mrs Ms accounts to be upgraded to those with higher interest rates two days after 
she raised her complaint. This was the appropriate thing to do in the circumstances, 
and Im pleased this was done without delay.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ms frustrations, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman