DRN-4049136
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (Suffolk Life) who is Mr Hs SIPP
(self invested personal pension) operator. The complaint concerns the provision of incorrect
bank details for Suffolk Life, which resulted in rent and service charge payments due to Mr
Hs SIPP going astray.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2023. I set out the background to Mr Hs 
complaint, what his complaint was, how wed investigated it and the findings Id made in the 
jurisdiction decision Id issued on 27 June 2022, together with Suffolk Lifes further 
comments. I went on to explain that Id thought about jurisdiction again but my view was still 
that we could consider the complaint. And I maintained it shouldnt be dismissed. I then set 
out my provisional findings on the merits of the complaint. Ive recapped all that here:
Mr H has a SIPP with Suffolk Life which holds several commercial properties. These include
a leasehold commercial property (the Property) from which Mr H operates his own
business. Legal title to the Property is held by SLA Property Company Limited as nominee
for Suffolk Life Annuities Limited. Mr Hs company pays rent and service charges to Suffolk
Life as the SIPP trustee and landlord of the Property.
Theres a property manager in place, who Ill refer to as Firm G. Firm G was appointed in
September 2012 by Suffolk Lifes predecessor. Ive seen what appears to be the original
Property Management Agreement (PMA) between Firm G and the original SIPP provider,
although the copy Ive seen is unsigned. When Suffolk Life took over, the properties held in
Mr Hs SIPP were transferred into the legal ownership of Suffolk Life.
Suffolk Life wrote to Firm G on 7 February 2014, noting that Firm G would be managing the
Property (and others held in the SIPP) on Suffolk Lifes behalf. It asked Firm G to arrange for
payments to be sent by cheque or by BACS. Amongst other things, Suffolk Life said it
required copies of all invoices which Firm G sent out to the tenants with Firm G to collect all
money owed in respect of those invoices. Copies of Suffolk Lifes PMA (one for each
property) was enclosed. Firm G was asked to insert the management fees it would be
charging and sign and return the PMA to Suffolk Life who would complete and sign it and
then send Firm G a copy for its records. I havent seen a completed and signed copy of the
PMA for the Property.
In 2016 Suffolk Lifes banking arrangements changed. Suffolk Life says Firm G was given
the new details by email on 26 October 2016.
Firm G emailed Mr Hs company on 9 March 2017, attaching an invoice for rent and service
charges due on 25th March 2017. I understand that the payment was made by Mr Hs 
company but returned (presumably because it was made to Suffolk Lifes old account).
On 22 June 2017, Mr Hs co-director (who I understand is the company finance officer)
emailed Firm G saying:
"Could you confirm what is the correct bank account for our rent and charges to be paid as
the recent payment I made has been returned."
Firm G replied the same day with the details it had for Suffolk Life the sort code and
account number. The details given were wrong. Only the first two digits of the sort code were
correct. The other four digits were wrong. And the account number was wrong. It was nine
digits long. A digit (a 4) had been duplicated. The account number given ended 4417. The
correct number ended 7417.
Mr Hs company made an electronic payment of £24,537.04 the same day. But, as the
account number was too long, the last digit of the incorrect account number was omitted. Its
not entirely clear whether Mr Hs co-director left off the last digit and actioned the payment,
or if it was somehow processed using a truncated account number.
The payment wasnt returned. And, on 21 September 2017, a further payment of the same
amount was processed using the same (incorrect) account number and sort code. That
meant a total of £49,074 had been sent to what turned out to be an incorrect account.
On 20 October 2017 Suffolk Life emailed Firm G asking when the next rent payment would
be received. Firm G replied saying it had copied in Mr Hs company as Firm G didnt collect
the rent for the Property. On 6 November 2017 Suffolk Life emailed Mr Hs company asking
when the SIPP could expect to receive the next rental payment. £49,434.08 was currently
outstanding in respect of rent and service charges. The email said that the bank account
details had recently changed and gave the new details.
Suffolk Life sent further emails on 20 November and 4 December 2017 to Mr Hs company.
Mr Hs co-director replied on 4 December 2017. She said both invoices had been paid but,
unfortunately, into an account number ending 4417. She said the first email shed received
with the new account number was in early November, by which time both invoices had been
paid. She asked Suffolk Life to locate the outstanding funds and allocate to clear the
outstanding rent. Ive seen an email sent on 5 December 2017 from Mr Hs co-director to
Firm G:
 I think it looks like the details you send me were incorrect as it had too many digits which
didn't allow me to input the last digit. So cock up on both sides to be fair.
Initially Mr Hs company asked the bank involved to disclose the identity of the third party
account holder. But, for confidentiality or privacy reasons, the bank refused. Mr Hs company
instructed solicitors to make an application to the court requiring the bank to disclose the
identity of the third party account holder. An order was made in February 2018. The account
holder was a limited company. Solicitors instructed by Mr Hs company corresponded with
the owner of the third party company.
Some money was recovered. An initial payment of £10,000 was made on 5 March 2018 and
an agreement was reached with the third party to repay the balance in instalments of £1,000
per month. I understand that a total of £14,000 was in the end recovered from the third party.
It seems, by about May 2018, Mr H had started to think about looking to Firm G for
reimbursement. I suspect he was concerned as to whether the third party would keep to the
agreement to repay and, even if it did, the time it would take to recover in full. And possibly 
the costs involved too  Mr Hs representative has confirmed that Mr Hs company incurred
legal fees of £8,452 plus VAT.
Whatever the reason, initially Suffolk Life was able to agree it would also instruct Mr Hs
companys solicitors to advise about making a claim to Firm G. An emailed letter dated 2May 2018 to Suffolk Life from the solicitors confirms that Suffolk Life had asked for advice
regarding a potential claim against Firm G for providing incorrect bank details to the tenant of
the Property, resulting in a loss of £49,074.08 in rental payments. The letter said Mr H had
agreed that the solicitors fees for acting for Suffolk Life were to be met from his SIPP. Any
steps taken by Suffolk Life in pursuing the claim would be carried out with his agreement and
advice and information about the claim could be shared with him. It was anticipated that the
costs of preparing a letter before claim to Firm G wouldnt exceed £500 plus VAT.
At the outset the solicitors were happy there was no conflict of interest in acting for both
Suffolk Life and Mr Hs company. The solicitors considered both clients had the common
goal of recovering the missing rent from Firm G. Suffolk Lifes interests were aligned with
those of Mr Hs company as Suffolk Life intended to pursue Firm G, and not Mr Hs
company.
A pre-action letter was issued to Firm G on 29 May 2018. Amongst other things it said:
It was a letter of claim sent in accordance with the Practice Direction on Pre-Action
Conduct (Civil Procedure Rules).
Firm G managed the Property for Suffolk Life in return for annual management fees
met from the SIPP. Firm G sent Mr Hs company invoices for rent and service
charges on a quarterly basis.
The account details Firm G had provided to Mr Hs co-director were incorrect. In
reliance on the (incorrect) bank details provided by Firm G, Mr Hs company
transferred a total of £49,074.08 to the third party account.
Mr Hs company had received total payments of £12,000 from the third party but it
appeared the prospects of recovering the balance outstanding were poor. Mr Hs
companys legal costs were £8,452.42 excluding VAT. That left a balance £3,547.58
available to be paid into the SIPP which left the SIPP out of pocket by £45,526.50.
Firm G had breached a contractual duty owed to Suffolk Life. There was no signed
formal contract but there was no doubt that a contractual relationship existed
between the parties. Firm G had managed the Property prior to the transfer of the
SIPP to Suffolk Life. A proposed PMA had been sent to Firm G on 7 February 2014.
It was clear from the terms of the covering letter that Suffolk Life intended Firm G to
continue to manage the Property. A signed copy of the PMA wasnt returned to
Suffolk Life, but Firm G continued to manage the Property on behalf of Suffolk Life
and invoice Mr Hs company for rent and service charges. A court would conclude
that Firm G had assented to the terms of the PMA by its conduct and a contract was
concluded on those terms.
Under Duties of the property manager, Section A, the PMA says Firm G should act
in accordance with the generally accepted principles and procedures for the time
being recommended by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) in
relation to the management of the Property. Principle 2 of the Professional standards
and guidance, global; Real Estate Management (3rd edition, October 2016) (RICS
Principles) requires work to be carried out with due skill, care and diligence
In supplying incorrect bank details to Mr Hs company, Firm G failed to meet the
RICS standards and so breached Section A of the PMA. Alternatively (if the PMA
was not incorporated into the contract) Firm G acted in breach of the implied term to
manage the Property with due skill, care and diligence.
The sum of £45,526.50 was claimed plus interest at 8%.
Firm G replied on 11 June 2018. It said the claim should be brought under the Pre-Action
Protocol for Professional Negligence. That required an acknowledgement within 21 days and
a Letter of Response within three months. Firm G said the letter was the acknowledgement
and its Letter of Response would follow. It requested a breakdown of the £12,000 recovered.The solicitors replied on 20 June 2018 saying, putting aside the question of whether the Pre-
Action Protocol for Professional Negligence applied, it would be reasonable for Firm G to
reply by 20 July 2018. The letter set out the payments made by the third party: £10,000 on 5
March 2018 and two payments each of £1,000 on 26 March 2018 and 2 May 2018. In its
response dated 22 June 2018 Firm G maintained the Professional Negligence Pre-Action
Protocol applied.
The solicitors instructed by Suffolk Life and Mr H sent a copy of the letter to Suffolk Life and
Mr H. In the covering email the solicitors said they hadnt invoiced for their work and theyd
like to bring their fees up to date. They said theyd originally estimated £500 excluding VAT
for preparing the letter of claim, but costs had actually reached £1,750 excluding VAT. They
proposed to invoice £1,000 plus VAT and write off the balance and requested confirmation
that was acceptable.
Solicitors instructed by Firm G and its professional indemnity insurers responded on 27 July
2018 saying, amongst other things:
Despite Firm Gs invoices setting out its own bank details, Mr Hs company had never
made payment of rent/service charges to Firm G but had paid Suffolk Life direct. Firm
G consented to that arrangement on 5 January 2015 provided Mr Hs company
emailed Firm G to confirm payment had been made each time. Mr Hs company had
never done so.
It was agreed that Firm G owed a duty to Suffolk Life to act with due skill, care and
diligence in respect of their instructions to manage the Property although the position
as to how that arises was reserved. It was arguable that providing Suffolk Lifes bank
details to Mr Hs company fell within the scope of Firm Gs instructions but, if it did, it
was conceded that Firm G had provided incorrect details. But Suffolk Life hadnt
suffered any loss as it was still entitled to collect the rent due from Mr Hs company.
Any duty of care owed to Mr Hs company was denied. And the third party had
agreed to repay the monies at a rate of £1,000 pm or more quickly if possible. No
evidence had been provided for the statement that the prospects of recovering the
balance outstanding from the third party appeared to be poor. That should be Mr Hs
companys primary source of recovery.
If a breach of duty causative of loss could be established thered been significant
contributory negligence. Firm Gs sole error was to make a typo in an email to Mr Hs
company. But Mr Hs company and/or its bank had been negligent:
Mr Hs co-director, an experienced finance director, shouldve known the account
number provided by Firm G was too long and checked it before inputting the details
into Mr Hs companys payment systems.
Mr Hs co-director had claimed that system allowed her to input all nine digits and the
bank then proceeded to truncate the number and make payment to the account
corresponding to the first eight digits provided. It was highly unlikely a commercial
bank's systems would be structured in this way: Mr Hs co-director either knowingly
or recklessly only inputted eight digits. Mr Hs co-directors email to Firm G on 5
December 2017 was referred to. But, if Mr Hs companys bank did accept all nine
digits and then unilaterally truncated them to eight, the bank had been significantly
negligent. Mr Hs companys/its bank payment system didnt include sufficient checks
to ensure only eight digits could be input into the account field or, where payment is 
made to a new payee, a warning is given to the payor.
Contrary to Firm Gs express request, Mr Hs co-director didnt confirm to Firm G,
following the June payment, that payment had been made. Had she done so, its
likely the issue wouldve come to light in advance of the September payment.
Suffolk Life didnt check that Mr Hs companys rent had been received in June 2017.Suffolk Life is the trustee of the SIPP and had it checked, its likely the issue wouldve
come to light in advance of the September payment.
The companys usual standing order to Suffolk Life failed in June 2017. Suffolk Life
hadnt explained the reasons for that and it may be that Suffolk Life and/or its bank is
at fault  for example if Suffolk Life changed banks without informing other parties.
The issue shouldve been discovered following the June payment. That wouldve
prevented the September payment and reduced the sum claimed for interest and
increased the prospects of recovering a greater amount from the third party. Details
of the costs in pursuing the third party hadnt been provided but £8,452.42 appeared
high. And interest rates had essentially been nil for the relevant period.
In conclusion, it was possible that Firm G had breached its duty of care to Suffolk Life
if providing the requested bank details to Mr Hs company was within the scope of
Firm Gs instructions. But it was denied any breach was causative of loss to Suffolk
Life. Firm G didnt owe a duty of care to Mr Hs company. Firm Gs sole error was to
make a typo in an email to Mr Hs company. His companys and/or its banks
negligence superseded that.
A without prejudice letter was also sent on 27 July 2018. Firm G maintained it didnt owe a
duty of care to Mr Hs company. But there was a small risk that a court might take a broad
view of the events and apportion some liability to Firm G as a result of its typo. Although, as
a proportion of the entire liability for the incorrect payment, Firm Gs exposure was minimal.
Given the potential for costs to escalate if proceedings were issued, Firm G was prepared to
offer £16,500 in settlement of the claim on the terms set out.
Firm Gs letters were considered by Suffolk Life, Mr H, and the solicitors instructed. Mr H
asked, amongst other things, about a possible counterproposal and how the claim against
the third party could be escalated. The solicitors set out their views on those issues and said,
if they were to continue to carry out work, theyd need confirmation as to the agreed position
as to who would be responsible for their fees.
There was discussion between Suffolk Life and Mr H about the solicitors fees. In an email
on 7 August 2018 Suffolk Life referred to an earlier email to Mr H enclosing a letter dated 25
July 2018 following a discussion on 10 July 2018 about the solicitors invoice due for
payment in the sum of £1,000 plus VAT from Mr Hs SIPP. Suffolk Life said it was
disappointed Mr H hadnt replied with instructions on paying this invoice and further
solicitors costs had been incurred. Suffolk Life asked for Mr H to revert as soon as possible,
adding that any costs incurred by the solicitors would be deemed to be incurred by him
personally and not Suffolk Life.
Mr H replied on 8 August 2018. He said Suffolk Life were employed to look after his interests
and had clearly failed  the offer letter from Firm Gs solicitors had raised contributory
negligence by Suffolk Life. As Suffolk Life were clearly at fault, he didnt feel obliged to pay
the solicitors costs. He added that Suffolk Life hadnt told him his SIPP would be liable for
those costs.
Suffolk Life replied the same day referring to a conversation on 4 April 2018 and Suffolk Life
had raised with Mr H that all legal costs pertaining to instructing the solicitors on behalf of his
SIPP to pursue Firm G would be payable by Mr Hs SIPP. Suffolk Life said it did say that
some of those costs might be recoverable but explained this depended on how any claim
progressed. Suffolk Life had followed up with an email forwarding the solicitors terms of 
business and reiterating the position. Suffolk Life said it couldnt comment on if thered been
contributory negligence and would need to consider that in more detail.
What Mr H had said about led Suffolk Life to question with the solicitors whether a conflict of
interest had arisen. The solicitors agreed it had, saying the disagreement over responsibilityfor fees had created the situation where the solicitors were caught in the middle of a
disagreement between two clients. And which meant the solicitors had no choice but to step
back from advising either client.
Suffolk Life sent Mr H a final response letter on 21 August 2018. In summary:
Suffolk Life didnt agree it had failed to fulfil its responsibilities or failed to inform Mr H
that his SIPP would be liable for legal fees incurred in pursuing Firm G. All relevant
parties had been notified of the change to Suffolk Lifes banking arrangements and
Firm G was given the new details by email on 26 October 2016. Firm G didnt forward
the new bank details to Mr Hs company until 22 June 2017 by which time a payment
made by Mr Hs company had been returned. It wasnt clear why the new bank
details hadnt been provided to Mr Hs company sooner.
The (new) account number provided by Firm G was wrong. It had nine digits, not
eight. And the sort code was wrong. On 22 June 2017 Mr Hs company made a
payment without questioning the accuracy of the account number, even though the
system wouldnt accept the full nine digits. That was confirmed in Mr Hs co-directors
email of 5 December 2017. It also confirmed that errors had been made by Mr Hs
company and Firm G.
Mr Hs company pays rent to Suffolk Life on a quarterly basis. Suffolk Life received
funds in March 2017 for rent owed from March to June 2017. All the paperwork was
received, and the account reconciled in April 2017. It was only when the rent wasnt
received for the June to September 2017 quarter that Suffolk Life contacted Firm G
to chase it.
Suffolk Lifes process for chasing rent, where a property is externally managed, is to
start chasing one month after the end of the billing quarter. So, it wasnt due to chase
Firm G until the end of October 2017. A first chaser email was sent to Firm G on 20
October 2017. Firm G only invoiced the rent for the Property and didnt physically
collect it so Firm G forwarded the email to Mr Hs company. Suffolk Life then chased
Mr Hs company on 6 November 2017 and included a prompt of the new bank
details. When no response was received Suffolk Life chased again on 20 November
and 4 December 2017. Mr Hs company responded on 4 December 2017, confirming
that payments had been made, but to an incorrect bank account.
As to Mr Hs claim that he hadnt been informed his SIPP would be liable for any
legal costs in pursuing Firm G, Suffolk Life said it had been made clear, during Mr
Hs telephone call (on 4 April 2018), that, in the first instance, any legal fees would
need to be met from his SIPP fund. It had then been explained that the solicitors
instructed could then look to recover those costs as part of the claim. But the
solicitors would need to be asked about that and the likelihood of a successful claim
ascertained. It wasnt guaranteed that the costs would be recovered. That was
reiterated in an email dated 3 May 2018 and is detailed in the terms and conditions.
Unless Mr H agreed to settle the solicitors invoice, the claim against Firm G couldnt
be progressed.
Suffolk Life instructed new solicitors in connection with the claim against Firm G. The new
solicitors wrote to Firm Gs solicitors on 8 October 2019 on a without prejudice basis and in
connection with the offer of £16,500 and enquiring if Firm G was open to negotiation. Ive
seen Firm Gs solicitors reply. The offer wasnt increased.
Ive also seen that Mr Hs representative issued a pre-action letter to Suffolk Life on 15
November 2018. Amongst other things it said:
Suffolk Life, as the SIPP trustee, had a number of non-delegable duties in respect of
Mr H. Including a duty to administer the SIPP with care and skill and in the bestinterests of Mr H. That encompassed a duty to establish good internal controls for the
proper administration of the assets of the SIPP, which incorporated a duty to obtain
rent in respect of the Property.
In 2012 the trustee entered into a PMA with Firm G. Whereas the trustee can
delegate its duties to an agent (Firm G) the trustee remains liable to Mr H as
beneficiary for the actions of its agent.
Firm G adopted a process of sending out invoices for rent and service charges on a
quarterly basis to the tenant, Mr Hs company.
Mr Hs co-director had requested payment details for Suffolk Life. The details Firm G
provided were incorrect. Both the account number and the sort code were wrong. In
reliance on the incorrect bank details provided by Firm G, Mr Hs company
transferred a total of £49,074.08 to the account provided.
Following discovery of the error and the court application to get details of the account
holder, Mr Hs company had been unable to recover the funds in full. £14,000 had
been recovered at a cost of £8,452 plus VAT (in total £10,142.40). The third party
company was dissolved on 2 October 2018.
Mr H held the trustee to account for the loss caused to him, in the amount of
£49,074.08. The trustee, through its agent Firm G, had advised the tenant to make a
payment to an account other than that of the trustee. A trustee acting with due skill
and care wouldve ensured the correct information was provided to the tenant in
order that the correct rent was received.
The duty owed to Mr H is a non-delegable duty. The extent to which the trustee may
have a claim for a contribution or indemnity from Firm G is of no concern to Mr H and
a matter between the trustee and Firm G only.
Mr H claims £49,074.08 in losses. Mr H will give credit for the amount received by
way of recovery to date, net of the costs of the recovery action. And he was willing,
as part of any settlement agreement to assign to the trustee all of his rights in respect
of the third party company and its owner. And the bank which made the transfer.
The new solicitors instructed by Suffolk Life replied on 10 December 2018 saying, amongst
other things:
Suffolk Life had engaged Firm G to manage the Property. Management of the
Property by Firm G and its appointment was, at all times, at Mr Hs discretion.
Firm Gs duties included invoicing Mr Hs company for rent and service charges. It
was accepted that Firm G had relayed the wrong account details. But Mr Hs co-
director, an experienced finance director, shouldve known the account number
provided by Firm G was too long and, exercising due skill and care, checked before
inputting it. The co-directors email to Firm G on 5 December 2017 was cited.
Suffolk Life had in place appropriate management arrangements in relation to the
Property and Suffolk Life denied any wrongdoing. Any claim against it would lead to it
including Firm G and Mr Hs company as Part 20 defendants. The tenants acts
amount to significant contributory negligence. There remains an outstanding sum of
rent due, liability for which ultimately rests with the tenant.
I understand that Suffolk Life considered issuing proceedings against Mr Hs company for
the outstanding rent payments. But Suffolk Life decided against taking any legal action
against Mr Hs company as Mr H had complained to Suffolk Life.
Mr Hs complaint
In February 2019 Mr H, through his representative, referred his complaint to our service. On
his complaint form, in the section titled, please tell us what your complaint is about Mr H
said: The complaint is in respect of services provided by Suffolk Life Annuities Limitedand/or Suffolk Life Trustees Limited and/or SLA Property Company Limited. The details of
the complaint are set out in full in the following items of attached correspondence. That
included: Suffolk Lifes letter to Mr H dated 21 August 2018 (Suffolk Lifes final response); Mr
Hs representatives letter to Suffolk Life dated 15 November 2018 (the pre-action letter); and
the response dated 10 December 2018 from the solicitors instructed by Suffolk Life. Ive
summarised all of those above. The following complaint points appear to be raised by/on
behalf of Mr H and/or addressed by Suffolk Life:
Suffolk Life failed in its responsibilities and did something wrong;
Suffolk Life had a duty to administer Mr Hs SIPP with care and skill in the best
interests of Mr H. That duty encompasses a duty to establish good internal controls
for the proper administration of the assets of the SIPP, which incorporates a duty to
obtain rent in respect of the Property.
Suffolk Life, via its alleged agent, Firm G, advised Mr Hs company to make a
payment to an account other than that of Suffolk Life. If acting with due skill and care,
Suffolk Life wouldve ensured the correct information was provided to Mr Hs
company to ensure the correct rent was received by Suffolk Life.
The duty owed to Mr H is a non-delegable duty.
Suffolk Life failed to inform Mr H that his SIPP would be liable for any legal fees
incurred in pursuing Firm G.
When we asked Suffolk Life for its comments in response to the complaint, Suffolk Life made
a number of points: In summary:
It wasnt responsible for the negligent actions of the external third party property
manager, or the tenants of the Property, which led to payments being made to an
incorrect account not owned by Suffolk Life.
When Suffolk Life acquired Mr Hs SIPP it already held the Property and Firm G had
already been appointed as external property managers.
As property manager, it is the responsibility of Firm G to invoice and collect rent from
the tenant as set out in Suffolk Lifes letter of February 2014.
In 2017 Suffolk Life wrote to Firm G to inform it of a change in Suffolk Lifes bank
details for remittance of rental payments. But Firm G later provided incorrect details
to Mr Hs company and payments were made to the wrong account. Despite Suffolk
Lifes efforts, and initial legal action, it hadnt been possible to retrieve all the funds.
What happened wasnt Suffolk Lifes fault and, as rent hasnt been paid successfully
to the SIPP, Mr Hs tenant company still owes the SIPP that money.
Mr Hs co-directors email to Firm G confirms that the error was between them.
Our investigation
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. In summary, he said it was clear an error had been
made which could be traced back to the email from Firm G on 22 June 2017 which gave the
incorrect account number and sort code. Suffolk Life had simply outsourced some of its
duties in connection with the management of Mr Hs SIPP to Firm G. Any error that Firm G
made was Suffolk Lifes responsibility. Suffolk Life should compensate Mr H for the rent and
service charge payments that went missing because of Suffolk Lifes agents error. As to
whether some responsibility might rest with Mr Hs company, the adjudicator concluded that
Mr Hs co-director didnt notice the account number was too long and only entered the first
eight digits. But, even if shed queried the longer account number, the sort code provided
incurred. The adjudicator didnt think Suffolk Life should meet the legal costs
incurred.
Mr Hs representative agreed with most of the adjudicators findings but said Mr Hscompany had spent £8,452 (excluding VAT) trying to recover the missing payments and had
recovered, in total, £14,000, so a net balance of £5,548. Mr Hs company still had that
money and hadnt been asked to pay it into Mr Hs SIPP. The net missing amount was
£43,526.08. Suffolk Life should pay Mr H interest (at 8%) on the payments that shouldve
been paid into his SIPP. Mr Hs legal fees should also be met. Mr H had been advised that
payment couldnt be made into his pension and should be made direct to him.
Suffolk Life didnt agree with the adjudicators view. In summary Suffolk Life said:
All third parties had to be appointed by Suffolk Life as the legal owner and landlord of
the Property. But the decision as to whether an appointment is made and maintained
is the clients. Suffolk Life accepted no liability for the service of a third party
company the client had requested be appointed. The situation wasnt one where
Suffolk Life required a property manager to be appointed. It was Mr Hs decision to
have Firm G appointed and retained.
Firm G had already been appointed when Suffolk Life acquired the SIPP as part of
the transfer from the previous SIPP operator. Suffolk Life hadnt outsourced its
responsibilities to an external party. It had inherited the relationship. In February
2014 it had written to Firm G to confirm its understanding that Firm G would continue
as property manager and asking Firm G to sign a new PMA.
Suffolk Life referred to the PMA and Suffolk Lifes SIPP terms and conditions (in
particular sections 10.22, 10.29 and 10.30 which Ive referred to further below).
Theres a link between Firm G and Mr H. Firm G manages three separate properties
held in Mr Hs SIPP.
Suffolk Life hadnt made any error. This service has no jurisdiction over Firm G. We
shouldnt assign financial liability for Firm Gs actions to Suffolk Life. The claim
against Suffolk Life should be dismissed as there was no failure on its part.
Suffolk Life can pursue the unpaid sums legally via a claim for negligence against
Firm G, if Mr H wants. But all legal costs will need to be covered by the SIPP and
form part of the claim. Legal action has been taken against Firm G. It made an offer.
The solicitors appointed were unwilling to continue to act unless their costs were
paid. Mr H hadnt accepted the offer or appointed new legal representation.
The adjudicator, after sharing each partys comments with the other and considering
everything that had been said, wrote to the parties again on 9 December 2019. He didnt
think the further submissions changed things. Ive summarised his further findings:
Even if Firm G was already in place when Suffolk Life became the SIPP provider,
Suffolk Life had formally appointed Firm G, albeit at Mr Hs request.
Suffolk Lifes PMA said Firm G indemnified Suffolk Life from any losses arising from
dishonesty or negligence. But that was an agreement between Suffolk Life and Firm
G. If Suffolk Life felt that Firm Gs actions had caused financial loss, Suffolk Life
could pursue Firm G independently.
Section 10.30 of the PMA says the property manager will carry out duties on Suffolk
Lifes behalf. The primary relationship was between Suffolk Life and Mr H. Suffolk
Life may not have made any mistake but, even if the error was Firm Gs, that simply
gave Suffolk Life a way to pursue Firm G for the losses.
The adjudicator didnt agree that Mr H should get 8% interest on the missing rental
payments or that any award for legal costs should be made.
Again, both parties commented. Mr Hs representative maintained that Mr Hs legal fees And 
Suffolk Life said, in summary:
We had to be fair and reasonable to all parties. The adjudicator had accepted thatSuffolk Life hadnt made any error. But wed suggested Suffolk Life was responsible
for financial losses which stemmed directly from the failures of external third parties.
And wed disregarded the SIPP terms and conditions. Just because Firm G didnt
come within our jurisdiction didnt mean we could say responsibility lay elsewhere.
There are far reaching consequences on how the SIPP market works for commercial
property investments. In all property transactions the SIPP provider is reliant on the
services of third parties, including solicitors, property surveyors and, in some cases,
external property managers. All are appointed at the instruction of the underlying
customer on the understanding that Suffolk Life accepts no liability for the service.
Such companies arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority but they have
their own industry regulation and action can be taken against them.
The costs of any legal action against a third party would initially be borne by the SIPP
although the costs incurred may form part of any claim as clarified in section 10.37 of
the terms and conditions.
The SIPP terms and conditions make it clear that Suffolk Life doesnt accept
responsibility for the service provided by third parties - see clause 10.22 which is the
principle on which the appointment of third party professionals is allowed.
It wasnt reasonable to disregard the contract terms which Mr H had agreed to when
establishing his SIPP. And it was his choice to have Firm G appointed as an external
property manager. It has suitable qualifications and must have sufficient indemnity
insurance in place.
Suffolk Life has every sympathy with the tenant company. But it cant waive the sums
due. The tenancy is on a connected basis and, if funds are not paid to the SIPP,
HMRC will view the matter as Mr H having received an unauthorised benefit. That
would mean punitive tax measures against Mr H personally, his SIPP and Suffolk Life
as the SIPP administrator.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. But it
seemed to me there were jurisdiction issues which should be considered  in particular
whether Mr H was an eligible complainant. I issued a provisional decision on 19 January
2021, dealing with both jurisdiction and merits. I said we could consider the complaint and I
upheld it in part. I thought some responsibility rested on Mr Hs company and so I said
Suffolk Life should only be liable for half of the payments which had gone astray.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Suffolk Life was liable. And the second payment going into the
wrong account couldve been avoided. Suffolk Life didnt accept we could consider Mr Hs
complaint. Suffolk Life also argued that the complaint should be dismissed.
We shared each partys comments with the other. We also asked Suffolk Life to clarify what
it had said about possible issues with HMRC. Suffolk Lifes view was, if we were to order it to
make a payment into the SIPP, that would be classed as an unauthorised payment, leading
to a tax charge of 40% and possibly an additional surcharge of 15%. And it would trigger the
loss of Enhanced Protection, Fixed Protection or Fixed Protection 2014 as relevant.
After obtaining more information and comments I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision on
4 October 2021 followed by a jurisdiction decision on 27 June 2022. I said we could consider
the complaint and it shouldnt be dismissed.
My jurisdiction decision dated 27 June 2022
I explained that were governed by the DISP (Dispute Resolution) rules set out in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook. The version that applies is the one in force 
at the time Mr Hs complaint was brought to this Service. DISP 2.7.1R says we can only deal
with a complaint if it is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant. There are tworequirements to meet in order to be an eligible complainant. First, DISP 2.7.3R sets out the
categories of eligible complainants and, in so far as is relevant here, says:
An eligible complainant must be a person that is:
(1) a consumer,
Secondly, DISP 2.7.6R says:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money
holder of the respondent;

(4) the complainant is a beneficiary of, or has a beneficial interest in, a personal pension
scheme or stakeholder pension scheme;
I considered first if Mr H met the definition of consumer. My main findings were:
Subsection 7 of the FCAs Glossary definition said, for the purposes of DISP 2.7.3R,
the definition is: an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside
that individuals trade, business, craft or profession . Mr H had to be acting mainly
and not wholly outside his trade, business, craft or profession. So some link with his
trade, business, craft or profession wouldnt mean he couldnt meet the applicable
definition of consumer.
The case of Bluefin Insurance Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2014]
EWHC 3413 (Admin) was relevant. The facts were very different from the current
case, as was the applicable definition of consumer. But the case did assist in
determining if Mr H met the relevant consumer definition and in setting out the
approach that should be taken in addressing that question: an analysis of what a
complainant is doing and for what purposes when bringing a complaint was required.
Mr Hs complaint points addressed losses hed incurred in his personal capacity as a
beneficiary of the SIPP and which went beyond the payments that went astray.
Bluefin noted that personal loss may not be determinative of an individual being a
consumer. But I thought it was a relevant factor to take into account.
At the time the complaint was brought to this Service, the SIPP held properties, some
of which were tenanted to businesses which Mr H had an interest in and some he
didnt. I considered the purpose for which the SIPP had been established. In my
view, it hadnt been set up to facilitate Mr Hs business interests or to purchase the
Property (or any other commercial property) but to make retirement provision. The
aim was to create a pension fund with a diverse investment strategy to provide
income in retirement via rents and capital growth via equities.
Mr H had concluded the Property was a suitable investment for his SIPP as it
provided the opportunity for both rental income and capital growth. The arrangement
wouldve been convenient from a business perspective but the purchase was driven
by the Propertys viability as a SIPP investment and not for reasons to do with Mr Hs
company and/or to further his business interests.
Buying the Property was the start of an investment strategy Mr H had decided to
pursue using commercial property as an asset class and which he went on to
develop by adding more properties to the portfolio of commercial properties held in
his SIPP. The dominant purpose of the SIPP was personal rather than commercial or 
business related. The fact that the SIPP held some properties which were connected
with Mr Hs business interests could be said to be incidental.
Mr Hs complaint could be characterised as a one of alleged maladministration of hisSIPP. His aim in bringing his complaint was to seek compensation for his alleged
losses as a beneficiary of the SIPP. That supported a conclusion that, in bringing his
complaint, he was acting as a consumer as defined.
The payments which went astray were due from Mr Hs company as it was the tenant
of the property. And Mr Hs company was the client in terms of the legal fees. But
those factors were, in my view, incidental to Mr Hs key and overall complaint that
hed suffered a loss due to alleged maladministration of his SIPP.
Firm Gs mistake in giving the wrong bank account details couldve arisen in
connection with another property held in the SIPP with which Mr H had no business
connection, especially as Firm G also managed other properties held in the SIPP.
That supported a conclusion that the link with Mr Hs trade, business, craft or
profession was incidental and the complaint wasnt inextricably linked to his trade,
business, craft or profession.
Overall, the complaint could be characterised as one of alleged maladministration of
Mr Hs SIPP by Suffolk Life and/or Firm G which had caused personal losses to Mr H
as the beneficiary of the SIPP. Mr H could be said to be acting mainly outside his
trade, business, craft or profession in bringing his complaint. Any link to his trade,
business, craft or profession was incidental. At the time Mr H brought his complaint to
this Service, he met the Glossary definition of consumer.
In reaching that conclusion Id considered Suffolk Lifes arguments. There was no
dispute that Mr H (as one of the directors of the Propertys company tenant whose
rental payments went into the wrong account) was linked to the company. But
whether he was a connected party wasnt the issue. The Glossary definition of
consumer admitted some connection with the individuals business, trade, craft or
profession. An individual acting mainly outside his trade, business, craft or
profession will still meet the Glossary definition. Id explained how it came about that
the Property was held in the SIPP and why I thought that was incidental.
Suffolk Life had described Mr H as the controlling force behind the company. But
that wasnt conclusive. What mattered was if he met the definition of consumer.
And, as per Bluefin, what, on a true analysis, Mr H was doing in bringing his
complaint and for what purpose.
Suffolk Life had referred to what it termed the separation of the common interest
position and the conflict in Mr Hs combined roles which led to the solicitors being de-
instructed. And which Suffolk Life said demonstrated a clear consolidation of the two
roles  Mr H being a director of the company which was liable to make the rental
payments and the beneficiary of the SIPP  which Id said were separate and
distinct. But the fact that someone can operate in a number of capacities is reflected
in the definition of consumer and the inclusion of mainly. So long as, in bringing the
complaint, the individual is acting for purposes which are mainly outside that
individuals trade, business, craft or profession, the definition will be met.
The arrangement was convenient and advantageous for both Mr Hs company and
his SIPP. The company enjoyed security in terms of the premises it operates from
(albeit the lease is on an arms length basis). The SIPP benefits from a tenant whose
financial position, including its ability to meet the rent, is known to Mr H. But, again,
some connection or link with his trade, business, craft or profession wont mean Mr H
cant be said to meet the definition of consumer in bringing his complaint.
Taking into account all the evidence and considering what Mr H was doing in bringing
his complaint and for what purpose, there was, in my view, sufficient evidence to
conclude that, at the time of bringing his complaint, Mr H was acting for purposes
mainly outside his trade, business, craft or profession and that he met the Glossary
definition of consumer applicable at the time for the purposes of DISP 2.7.3R. 
I went on to consider if there was an eligible relationship between Mr H and Suffolk
Life at the time Mr H brought his complaint to this Service and based on what DISP
2.7.6R said then, which included where the complainant is a customer of therespondent (DISP 2.7.6R (1)) and where the complainant is a beneficiary of, or has a
beneficial interest in, a personal pension scheme (DISP 2.7.6R (4)). I said Mr H had
a relationship with Suffolk Life as the beneficiary of a personal pension scheme (Mr
Hs SIPP) which Suffolk Life provides and operates.
Mr Hs complaint must also arise from matters relevant to that relationship with
Suffolk Life, as the respondent to the complaint. Mr Hs complaint includes Suffolk
Lifes alleged failures (itself and/or by Firm G) in its duties as the SIPP operator, to
administer the SIPP with the requisite care and skill and in the best interests of Mr H
as the SIPP beneficiary. More specifically, Mr H complains that Suffolk Life, as the
SIPP operator and acting via Firm G, advised his company to make a payment to an
account other than Suffolk Lifes and which led to rent and service charge payments
not being received by his SIPP. All those matters were relevant to Mr Hs
relationship, as beneficial owner of the SIPP, with Suffolk Life as SIPP operator.
Mr H had also said Suffolk Life didnt tell him that legal fees would be payable by his
SIPP. That complaint was about the alleged failure by Suffolk Life, as the SIPP
operator, to make Mr H aware of something that would affect him as the beneficiary
of the SIPP. That complaint also arose out of matters relevant to Mr Hs relationship
as a beneficiary of, or having a beneficial interest in, the SIPP operated by Suffolk
Life and the respondent to Mr Hs complaint.
DISP 2.7.6R (1) also applied. Mr H was Suffolk Lifes customer. His complaint arises
out of matters relevant to that relationship with Suffolk Life: He says Suffolk Life didnt
treat him, as a customer, properly and there were mistakes and/or service failings by
Suffolk Life and/or Firm G which led to payments due to Mr H, as Suffolk Lifes SIPP
customer, going astray. And to legal fees being incurred which would be payable by
his SIPP, which Mr H says he wasnt told about.
All in all, and for the reasons Id set out, I concluded Mr H was an eligible
complainant. First, he met the definition of consumer under DISP 2.7.3R. He also
had one or more of the requisite relationships with the respondent set out in DISP
2.7.6R. And his complaint arose from matters relevant to both relationships.
Having concluded the complaint was in jurisdiction, I then considered Suffolk Lifes
arguments as to why the complaint should be dismissed. In certain circumstances, we may
decline to deal with a complaint thats within our jurisdiction. Suffolk Life had referred to
DISP 3.3.4R (10). But that provision only applied to complaints referred to this Service
before 9 July 2015. Mr Hs complaint was referred to us in February 2019. DISP 3.3.4AR
sets out the grounds on which I may dismiss a complaint which has been referred to this
service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits. And included (see DISP
3.3.4AR (4)) where the subject matter of the complaint is the subject of current court
proceedings, unless proceedings are stayed or sisted (by agreement of all parties, or order
of the court) so that the matter may be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Suffolk Life had said, although no legal proceedings were issued, pre-action protocols in
anticipation of litigation were commenced. And it had taken the decision to pause any further
action pending our decision but it now felt it had been penalised for that. I understood what
Suffolk Life was saying  that the scene was set for legal action and the groundwork had 
been done. But the fact remained that no court proceedings were issued. So the ground for
dismissal in DISP 3.3.4AR (4) hadnt been made out and it wasnt open to me to dismiss the
complaint under that provision.
DISP 3.3.4AR (5) says I may dismiss a complaint if I consider that dealing with such a type 
of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of this service. DISP
3.3.4BG gives examples of that type of complaint, including where it would be more suitable
for the complaint to be dealt with by a court. So, even if no legal proceedings were on foot, I
still needed to consider if it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by acourt.
Suffolk Life had pointed to the complaint being complex, involving multiple parties and
raising difficult questions of legal personality. I didnt disagree. But the central matter to be
determined (once jurisdiction issues had been resolved) was whether Suffolk Life was
responsible for the losses Mr Hs SIPP has sustained including and arising from the lost
rental and service charge payments. What had happened is largely agreed. There were no
complex factual issues in dispute and which needed to be resolved. One of Mr Hs complaint
points was that he wasnt told his SIPP would be liable for legal fees incurred. Suffolk Life
maintains he was informed. So there was a dispute about that. But I didnt think that was a
complex issue and such that meant we should decline to deal with the complaint.
There was also an issue about whether Mr Hs company was responsible for or had
contributed to the losses the SIPP had sustained. But it isnt uncommon for us to deal with
complaints which involve other parties who might share some responsibility for whats
happened but against whom no complaint has been made or where we dont have
jurisdiction to consider that partys actions (or inaction). And, in some cases, the complainant
may have recovered (or have the right to seek recovery of) some of his losses from another
source. Those sorts of, admittedly potentially difficult, questions wont mean we should
decline to deal with the complaint. That would leave complainants with the only option of
pursuing potentially prohibitively expensive legal action and risk not just their own legal costs
but an order for costs being made against them.
Suffolk Life considered there were potential wider consequences. But the problem that arose
in Mr Hs case didnt come about as a result of how SIPP operators generally deal with
situations where the SIPP member or beneficiary is connected to the tenant of a commercial
property held in the SIPP. What happened arose out of a unique set of circumstances. I
couldnt see how a decision in that situation was likely to have the sort of wider impact on the
industry generally and on how SIPP operators operate that Suffolk Life had suggested. I
didnt agree it was a matter of public interest and that a court should deal with the issue.
Against that background I didnt agree it would be appropriate to dismiss Mr Hs
complaint for any of the reasons Suffolk Life had suggested.
Suffolk Lifes further comments
Mr Hs representative didnt comment in response to my jurisdiction decision. Suffolk Life
did. It remained disappointed by my conclusion that Mr H met the definition of consumer
and that in bringing his complaint he was acting mainly outside his business and trade.
Suffolk Life made the following main points (some of which relate to jurisdiction or dismissal
and others to merits):
Mr Hs co-directors reference, in her email sent on 5 December 2017 to Firm G, to a
mistake on both sides was an acknowledgement that both she (a company director
and the finance officer for the (company) tenant) and the property manager, Firm G,
were at fault. Not Suffolk Life.
The co-director had claimed that the companys payment system allowed her to input
all nine digits and the companys bank then proceeded to truncate the number and
make payment to the account corresponding to the first eight digits. Suffolk Life
suggested it was highly unlikely that a commercial banks systems would be so
structured and that the co-director either knowingly or recklessly only inputted eight 
digits. That wasnt Suffolk Lifes fault but the tenants. Suffolk Life shouldnt be
responsible.
Prior to Suffolk Life taking steps to recover from Mr Hs company, hed (as a director
of the company tenant) instructed solicitors to recover the money, thus adopting adual role as the protagonist progressing the claim but also avoiding any action
against his company to recover the arrears. Hed instigated the appointment of the
solicitors and then required Suffolk Life to join in on behalf of his SIPP. The
separation of the common interest position, largely due to Mr H not recovering the
funds in full (and having spent what was recovered on legal fees), resulted in him
issuing proceedings against Suffolk Life when it pointed out the rent remained due.
An email from the solicitors to Suffolk Life sent on 19 April 2019 (I think that should
be 2018) confirmed the solicitors already acted for the company tenant and £11,000
had been recovered from the third party company. As to whether that sum must
reduce the amount which Suffolk Life as trustee of the SIPP could recover from Firm
G, the solicitors view was that it depended on what Mr Hs company did with it. If it
was paid into the SIPP, the claim against Firm G would reduce by £11,000. If not, the
shortfall to the SIPP would remain £49,074.08.
Further, Mr Hs company had incurred its own legal fees and in principle would be
entitled to its legal costs in pursuing its unjust enrichment claim against the third
party. If Mr Hs company recouped its legal costs before paying anything into the
SIPP, it was hard to see why Suffolk Life shouldnt seek to recover from Firm G an
amount equal to £49,074.08 less the sum paid into the SIPP by Mr Hs company after
deduction of its costs to date.
Subsequent correspondence from Suffolk Life acknowledges that the recovered
funds were to be used to offset legal costs incurred by Mr Hs company. Thats
correct as during the instruction when the fees were incurred, the solicitors were only
acting for Mr Hs company. Suffolk Life received no value or benefit from the advice,
nor could it seek to rely on it up to the point when engagement terms were issued to
include Suffolk Life/the SIPP.
It remained the intention for the SIPP to recover the outstanding payments in full. Mr
H chose not to recompense the SIPP with the funds recovered but to retain it for his
own companys benefit. That not only supports the distinction in the entities involved,
but also Mr Hs adjustment in his own position.
Strictly speaking, court proceedings hadnt been initiated. But pre-action protocols in
anticipation of litigation had been commenced. If they hadnt, the payment from the
third party wouldnt have been received, nor the offer from Firm G. Proceedings had
also been threatened against Mr Hs company for repayment of the arrears. The
reality is that appropriate pre-proceedings steps had been taken. Suffolk Life
repeated that it was being penalised for not having taken action earlier on. What
Suffolk Life termed the legal positioning hadnt been appropriately assessed.
Suffolk Lifes duty is to consider every formal step it takes and act to the benefit, not
the detriment, of the SIPP members fund. Formalising court proceedings wouldve
meant a significant cost outlay for all parties involved. Any such decision is never
taken lightly. Suffolk Life acted in support of Mr Hs instructions to engage with the
recovery of funds from the third parties at fault. But, because one of those third
parties was connected to him, the unity in instruction was lost and blame misdirected.
Suffolk Life reiterated that the issues it had raised, as confirmed by the length and
number of comments across all my provisional decisions, gave rise to complex legal
arguments over the inter-relationship between a beneficiary and the commercial
tenant. There are points which, if not considered properly, will have consequences
for all SIPP operators, not just Suffolk Life. If my provisional decision was ratified, the
industry would likely have to review policies in relation to the management of SIPP
assets. One possible consequence was that SIPPs will choose to avoid contracting
with legal entities which are in any way connected with the beneficiaries of the SIPP.
That would seem counter intuitive but a possible outcome.
Suffolk Life remained increasingly concerned the conclusion Id reached was
unsustainable either in law or on a true application of the factual position. The issue
was of such significance to it and all other SIPP operators that it was arguably amatter of public interest which should only be dealt with by the court.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about this complaint and some of my views have changed from what I set
out in the provisional decision I issued on 19 January 2020 as to the merits of the complaint
and how I thought Mr H should be redressed. Im issuing this provisional decision to give
both parties the opportunity to comment on my revised findings.
But, before I consider the merits of the complaint, Ive thought again about jurisdiction. In my
jurisdiction decision dated 27 June 2022 I noted that the question of jurisdiction remains
open throughout the course of this complaint. Im required to consider any further evidence
or arguments regarding jurisdiction which may be made.
But I dont think Suffolk Life has really said anything new. Some of its comments repeat early
made points. Suffolk Life referred again to Mr H adopting a dual role in instructing solicitors
to pursue the third party company/its owner and avoiding action being taken against his own
company to recover the arrears. But, as I said in my jurisdiction decision, I dont see that
seeking to recover the funds from the third party was an attempt to avoid action against his
own company. The third party had received money to which it wasnt entitled. I think Mr Hs
company would logically look first to the third party for repayment of money paid to it in error.
Suffolk Life says it remains the intention for the SIPP to recover the outstanding payments in
full. Suffolk Life points to Mr Hs decision not to reimburse the SIPP with the funds recovered
as supporting the distinction in the entities involved and Mr Hs adjusted position in issuing
proceedings against Suffolk Life. As Ive noted previously, as no proceedings were actually
issued, so Suffolk Life is referring to the pre-action letter sent on 15 November 2018 to
Suffolk Life. I dont fully follow Suffolk Lifes argument here. If a distinction in the entities
involved is accepted, I think that supports what Ive said about the capacity in which Mr H is
bringing his complaint and why I think he meets the consumer definition, even if he has
other roles (a director of the company tenant) in the matter too.
Suffolk Life has reiterated that the complaint should be dismissed. Again I dont think Suffolk
Lifes arguments here are new. In particular, I dont agree Ive failed to assess what Suffolk
Life terms the legal positioning. Ive taken into account that proceedings against various
parties (the third party, Firm G, Suffolk Life and Mr Hs company) were contemplated and
pre-action letters were issued against Firm G and Suffolk Life. So, the scene was set for
legal action. But no court proceedings were actually issued (aside from at the outset against
the bank to disclose the third partys details). So it isnt open to me to dismiss the complaint
on the basis the subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings
where theres been a decision on the merits or is the subject of current court proceedings.
Im still not persuaded to dismiss the complaint on the basis that it would be more suitable to
be dealt with by the court or that, for any other reason, dealing with the complaint would
seriously impair the effective operation of this service. As Ive said before, the facts arent
complex and what happened is largely agreed. I dont think the powers a court has are
required to determine the complaint fairly. It isnt unusual for us to deal with complaints
which involve several parties, not all of whom we may have jurisdiction over. And Im still
unable to agree with what Suffolk Life says about the significance of this complaint to other 
SIPP operators. As Ive noted, the case arises out of unique facts and circumstances. I cant
see there are wide-reaching ramifications for SIPP operators generally.But, although my view remains that Mr H is an eligible complainant and I dont agree his
complaint should be dismissed, theres another matter  a jurisdiction issue  I need to
consider. Thats because, although Mr Hs complaint has been made against Suffolk Life,
the complaint arises from something Firm G did.
Can we consider a complaint about what Firm G did?
DISP 2.3.1R says: The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory
Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the
following activities.
Those activities include regulated activities which are relevant here and include establishing,
operating or winding up a personal pension scheme (which a SIPP is).
The crux of this matter is whether Suffolk Life can be held accountable for the actions of
Firm G, which isnt an authorised firm. DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the firm,
payment service provider, electronic money issuer, CBTL firm, designated credit reference
agency or designated finance platform is responsible (including business of any appointed
representative or agent for which the firm, payment institution, electronic money institution,
designated credit reference agency or designated finance platform has accepted
responsibility).
As Firm G isnt an authorised firm, for this service to be able to consider a complaint about
something Firm G did, we need to be satisfied that Suffolk Life is responsible for Firm Gs act
or omission. Suffolk Lifes responsibility extends (pursuant to DISP 2.3.3G) to any agent for
which Suffolk Life has accepted responsibility.
Ive thought first in general terms about what Suffolk Lifes duties were. A SIPP is a trust-
based pension. The legal owner of the SIPP and its assets is the SIPP provider who is the
trustee of the SIPP. Some SIPP providers allow the member to be a co-trustee but that isnt
the case here and Mr H isnt a trustee. As the trustee, the SIPP operator (Suffolk Life) owes
certain legal and fiduciary duties to the SIPP beneficiary (Mr H). These include acting
honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the beneficiary.
There are also regulatory duties. SIPPs are regulated  Ive mentioned the regulated act of
establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme. SIPP operators are
bound by the regulators Principles for Businesses (PRIN). For example, Principle 6
(Customers interests) says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and
treat them fairly. Further, and as set out on the FCAs website (see, for example,
https://www.fca.org/firms/fair-treatment-customers) all regulated firms must be able to show
consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their business model. The
regulator sets out six consumer outcomes that firms should strive to achieve to ensure fair
treatment of customers. These include (Outcome 3) providing clear information and keeping
customers appropriately informed.
The SIPP terms and conditions will also include express and implied contractual duties.
SIPP operators may delegate or outsource the day to day running of the SIPP or certain
aspects of it. For example, where the SIPP contains commercial property, it is common for
the SIPP operator to delegate management of it to a property manager. But the SIPP 
operator may remain responsible for any duties it chooses to delegate in accordance with
the principles of agency law.
Against that background Ive gone on to consider the relevant documentation such as thePMM and the SIPP terms and conditions to decide if Firm G was Suffolk Lifes agent.
The SIPP terms and conditions set out at paragraph 10.29 what Suffolk Life is responsible
for. They include (see paragraph 10.29b) dealing with tenant and third party enquiries and
(see paragraph 10.29k) invoicing and collecting rent and other sums due under the tenancy
agreement. And paragraph 10.30 expressly says, where Suffolk Life has appointed a
property manager, the property manager will carry out the activities set out at paragraph
10.29 on Suffolk Lifes behalf in accordance with the terms of their (the property managers)
appointment.
Section A of the PMA includes the following duties:
Demand, collect and receive rent and service charges and keep detailed records for
rent, service charges and other payments (including Value Added Tax) due to or from
Suffolk Life in respect of the Property.
Deal with all enquiries, complaints, reports and correspondence relating to the
Property and regularly inspect the Property, including any common parts, to ensure
that it is in a proper state of repair.
So, although the wording isnt identical, the duties of the property manager set out in Section
A of the PMA are consistent with Suffolk Lifes responsibilities set out in paragraphs 10.29b
and 10.29k of the SIPP terms and conditions. Reading the PMA alongside the SIPP terms
and conditions, I think its clear that Firm G, in carrying out its duties, was undertaking
activities for and on behalf of Suffolk Life in accordance with Suffolk Lifes responsibilities
under the SIPP terms and conditions.
As far as Ive seen, the signed PMAs were never returned to Suffolk Life. But I think its clear
that Suffolk Life intended Firm G to remain in place as the property manager and that Firm
Gs appointment would be in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the PMA
sent to Firm G on 7 February 2014. The argument put forward in the pre-action letter dated
29 May 2018 is reasonable  namely that by its conduct Firm G assented to the terms of the
PMA sent to it on 7 February 2014. And by permitting Firm G to manage the Property (and
presumably paying a fee to Firm G for doing so) Suffolk Life assented too. So, although the
formalities of Firm Gs appointment may not have been properly completed, I dont think
theres any doubt that Suffolk Life appointed Firm G as the property manager and in
accordance with the terms of the (unsigned) PMA. The following conclusions can be drawn:
Suffolk Life had certain responsibilities as set out in paragraph 10.29 of the SIPP
terms and conditions.
Suffolk Life could (see paragraphs 10.26 to 10.28 which apply where, as here, the
property is owned by Suffolk Life) appoint a property manager.
Firm G was appointed as the property manager even if the formalities of the
appointment werent properly completed.
Paragraph 10.30 expressly provides, where Suffolk Life has appointed a property
manager, the property manager will carry out the activities set out in paragraph 10.29
on Suffolk Lifes behalf in accordance with the terms of their appointment  the
unsigned PMA.
Looking at what happened here, the tenant company made an enquiry by email on 22 June
2017 as to Suffolk Lifes bank details for payment of the rent and service charges. Suffolk
Life was responsible, under paragraph 10.29b, for dealing with tenant enquiries. But Suffolk 
Life had appointed Firm G to carry out that activity on Suffolk Lifes behalf. So, in responding
to the tenant enquiry the same day, Firm G was acting for Suffolk Life. And Firm G was also
acting in accordance with its own duties in Section A of the PMA (to deal with all enquiriesrelating to the Property). The fact that Firm Gs response to the enquiry was flawed and the
information Firm G gave was wrong doesnt mean that, in dealing with the enquiry, Firm G
wasnt acting for and on behalf of Suffolk Life.
Suffolk Lifes responsibilities under the SIPP terms and conditions also included invoicing the
rent (paragraph 10.29k). Under the PMA Firm Gs duties were very similar  demanding,
collecting and receiving rent. I think providing Suffolk Lifes payment details to the tenant in
order that the tenant could make the rent payments to Suffolk Life falls under and is part of
invoicing/collecting rent. So, although the wording differs slightly, I think both amount to the
same thing and that Firm G was further acting for and on Suffolk Lifes behalf to ensure the
tenant company paid the rent due to Suffolk Life.
In saying that I note that Firm G didnt actually collect the rent itself. Firm G sent invoices
to Mr Hs company on a quarterly basis, but Mr Hs company made payment direct to
Suffolk Life and not through Firm G. In its letter dated 7 April 2014 Suffolk Life asked Firm
G to arrange for the payments to be sent either by cheque or BACS. It didnt specify the
payments should be made via Firm G. And Firm G says it confirmed to Mr Hs company
on 5 January 2015 that payment could be made direct to Suffolk Life.
Firm G says that was on the condition that Mr Hs company confirmed to Firm G when each
payment was made (and which Mr Hs company failed to do). But the accepted practice was
that Mr Hs company would make payments direct to Suffolk Life. In providing Suffolk Lifes
payment details, Firm G was carrying on the activities in respect of rent (invoicing and
collecting) set out in paragraph 10.29k of the SIPP terms and conditions and in Section A of
the PMA (demanding, collecting and receiving rent). That would include providing the
correct payment details to Mr Hs company so it could make payment direct to Suffolk
Life, as had become the accepted practice.
But even if theres any argument about that, I think its clear that, in any event and in dealing
with the tenant companys enquiry, Firm G was clearly acting on Suffolk Lifes behalf. The
SIPP terms and conditions say that Suffolk Life is responsible for dealing with tenant
enquiries (paragraph 10.29b) and that where Suffolk Life appoints a property manager the
property manager will carry out that activity in accordance with the terms of its appointment.
So Im satisfied that the tenant companys enquiry about Suffolk Lifes bank details was
being dealt with by Firm G on Suffolk Lifes behalf and Firm G was carrying that out in
accordance with the terms of its appointment under the PMA.
Suffolk Life has pointed to paragraph 10.22 of the SIPP terms and conditions. But I dont
think that provision operates in the way Suffolk Life has suggested. All it says is that Suffolk
Life cant guarantee the service provided by third party professionals. That doesnt mean that
a third party professional cant be acting on Suffolk Lifes behalf or that Suffolk Life wont
remain responsible for certain matters. Although the definition of third party professional in
the SIPP terms and conditions includes a property manager, I dont think that definition and
the provisions about a property manager in paragraphs 10.26 to 10.33 are mutually
exclusive.
Paragraph 10.26 says Paragraphs 10.27 to 10.33 will apply where the property is owned by
us, that is, Suffolk Life. As here the Property is owned by Suffolk Life, those provisions will
apply regardless of whether the property manager may also meet the definition of a third
party professional. 
Against that background, Im therefore satisfied that, in dealing with the tenant companys
enquiry and providing Suffolk Lifes bank details, Firm G was acting on behalf of Suffolk Life
and that Suffolk Life remained responsible for those activities  dealing with enquiries and
collecting rent.In my view, Firm G was undertaking duties which Suffolk Life would otherwise have had to
carry out itself (as per the SIPP terms and conditions) but had instead delegated to Firm G to
carry out on its behalf (in accordance with the terms of the PMA). I think its very clear (and
even if Firm G was as defined a third party professional) that, in dealing with the tenant
companys enquiry and providing Suffolk Lifes bank details Firm G was acting on Suffolk
Lifes behalf (as stipulated in paragraph 10.30 of the SIPP terms and conditions) and as
Suffolk Lifes agent.
But a finding that Firm G was acting as Suffolk Lifes agent isnt, on its own, sufficient for
this service to be able to look at a complaint against Suffolk Life about Firm G having
supplied the incorrect bank details. We can only consider certain types of activity. DISP
2.3 deals with the activities to which our Compulsory Jurisdiction (which is the relevant
jurisdiction here) applies. DISP 2.3.1R says:
'The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding and administering a
benchmark)
The other activities listed arent relevant here. So Firm G would need to be carrying on a
regulated activity.
Was Firm G carrying on a regulated activity?
Regulated Activities are set out in the Financial Services and Market Act 2000 (Regulated
Activities Order) 2001 as amended and include (see Article 52(b)) establishing, operating, or
winding up a personal pension scheme. In my view, operating a personal pension scheme is
relevant here. Guidance on what that involves can be found in PERG (The Perimeter
Guidance Manual) Chapter 12. It sets out a series of questions and answers to help those
involved in the running of a personal pension scheme to understand the relevant regulated
activities.
Q2 deals with what is a personal pension scheme for the purposes of this regulated activity
and says that SIPPs are included. Q4 sets out whats involved in operating a personal
pension scheme. It says the operator is the person (and that includes a legal person such
as a company like Suffolk Life) responsible to the members for, amongst other things,
managing and administering the assets and income of the personal pension. I dont think
theres any dispute that Suffolk Life is the operator of the SIPP or that operating Mr Hs SIPP
would include managing the commercial properties held in the SIPP. And administering
those properties as an asset of the personal pension would include collecting the rent as an
income of the asset held and/or dealing with enquiries from the tenant about paying the rent.
Q6 deals with delegation by the operator of a personal pension scheme of day-to-day
functions such as the management of the scheme assets. It says such functions can be
delegated or outsourced but the operator will remain as such. And the operators position
isnt affected by the underlying assets, such as commercial property, as its the
establishment, operating or winding up of the personal pension thats the regulated activity,
regardless of the assets held.
All in all Im satisfied that the collection of rent is a regulated activity as it forms part of the
regulated activity of operating a personal pension scheme. As is dealing with enquiries
concerning the rent. The upshot is that we can consider a complaint about what Firm G did.
Theres an agency relationship between Firm G and Suffolk Life and, in giving Mr Hscompany Suffolk Lifes bank details, Firm G was acting as an agent for Suffolk Life and was
carrying on the regulated activity of operating a personal pension scheme.
The merits of the complaint
Ive set out above what I understand Mr Hs complaint to be, based on what he said on his
complaint form and the documents referred to. I think the complaint can be broadly
summarised as alleged breaches of duty by or on behalf of Suffolk Life in administering
and/or managing Mr Hs SIPP. To determine that complaint, Ive considered if Firm G did
anything wrong and, if so, did anything Firm G do wrong cause Mr Hs losses. Ive also
considered the legal fees that were incurred and Mr Hs complaint that Suffolk Life didnt tell
him that Suffolk Lifes legal fees for pursuing Firm G would be paid from his SIPP.
Did Firm G do anything wrong?
Theres no dispute that Firm G made a mistake  the bank details it gave to Mr Hs co-
director werent correct. Suffolk Life has said that it hasnt done anything wrong and what
happened was between Mr Hs company and Firm G. I can see that: Suffolk Life wasnt
directly involved in the mistake about the account number as it was Firm G who gave the
incorrect account details to Mr Hs co-director. Theres no suggestion the incorrect details
had been supplied to Firm G by Suffolk Life. But Suffolk Life will still be responsible if Firm G
was acting on behalf of Suffolk Life and as its agent. In that situation, even though the
mistake was actually made by Firm G, its effectively Suffolk Lifes mistake as Firm G was
acting on Suffolk Lifes behalf.
In so far as the account number was concerned, it may have been an easily made typing
error. But that doesnt explain why the sort code was completely wrong. And its always very
important, when asked for bank details in order to make a payment, to ensure the details
given are correct. Making an error can lead to serious consequences. Its easy to get a digit
wrong or make some other mistake so it should be a matter of routine to check (and double
check) that the account details are correct. And I think in this case particular care was
needed because:
The quarterly rent and service charges due were very substantial.
Firm G knew (because Suffolk Life had told it by email on 26 October 2016) that
Suffolk Lifes bank details had recently changed. Mr Hs co-directors query about the
bank details was made not too long after that change. Firm G ought to have
anticipated that the change in Suffolk Lifes banking arrangements might generate
confusion and so Firm G ought to have been careful to respond with the correct new
details.
Mr Hs co-director said she was querying the bank details because a payment shed
made (presumably using the old bank account details) had been returned. So Firm
G knew there was some issue with the bank details that Mr Hs co-director had and
that shed tried, unsuccessfully, to make a payment.
Even though Mr Hs company usually made rent payments direct to Suffolk Life, Firm
G knew (because it was set out in Suffolk Lifes letter of 7 February 2014) that the
rent payments for the different properties held in the SIPP were paid into different
accounts. So, there was potential for confusion.
Ive found above that, in giving Suffolk Lifes bank details to the company tenant, Firm G was
acting on Suffolk Lifes behalf. As Ive explained, thats in accordance with the SIPP terms
and conditions which expressly provide (see paragraph 10.30) that, where Suffolk Life has
appointed a property manager, the property manager will carry out the activities set out in
paragraph 10.29 on Suffolk Lifes behalf and in accordance with the terms of the propertymanagers appointment  the PMA. So any act or omission in relation to those activities,
such as Firm Gs provision of the incorrect bank details or Firm Gs failure to provide the
correct bank details, remains Suffolk Lifes responsibility. And thats in accordance with the
general principles of agency law where the principal, Suffolk Life, will remain responsible for
what its agent, Firm G, does (or doesnt do).
Theres no dispute that the bank details which Firm G provided to Mr Hs co-director were
incorrect. Because Firm G was acting on behalf of Suffolk Life, Suffolk Life is responsible for
Firm Gs error. Ive gone on to consider the consequences of Firm Gs error and if it caused
loss to Mr H.
Did Firm Gs error cause financial loss to Mr H?
It isnt disputed that Firm G made a mistake by providing the incorrect bank details to Mr Hs
co-director. But, it isnt entirely clear as to exactly how that led to the two rent and service
charge payments being made into the wrong account. And if other parties may have been at
fault too.
DISP 3.6.1R requires me to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And DISP 3.6.4R says, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the ombudsman
will take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what the ombudsman considers to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
As Ive said, it isnt unusual for us to have to determine a complaint where other parties have
been involved and may also have been at fault. Sometimes those other parties are regulated
entities and we might have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about them. But, in other
situations, we wont have jurisdiction over all of the parties involved.
In the letter dated 27 July 2018 (which was the response to the pre-action letter sent on
behalf of Suffolk Life and Mr Hs company to Firm G), Firm Gs solicitors alleged contributory
negligence on the part of Mr Hs co-director  both in relation to processing the rent
payments and in failing, contrary to Firm Gs express request, to confirm to Firm G that the
June 2017 rent and service charge payment had been made. Issues were also raised about
Suffolk Lifes alleged failure  as the trustee of the SIPP  to check that Mr Hs companys
rent payment had been received in June 2017. And possible issues with Mr Hs companys
and/or its banks payment systems were also mentioned.
When I issued my provisional decision on 19 January 2021, I thought it fair to take into
account what another party (albeit one that was connected to Mr H) had done. I agreed there
had been contributory negligence on the part of Mr Hs company and I said Suffolk Life
should only be responsible for 50% of the rent and service charge payments that never
reached Mr Hs SIPP.
But, on reflection, Im not now satisfied that would be right here. So Ive revised my approach
as to how I should consider the actions of all parties, including Mr Hs company, as well as
how their actions may have contributed to the SIPPs losses. Essentially, Ive tried to
separate out Mr Hs complaint, made in his capacity as a beneficiary of the SIPP, from his
position as a director of the company tenant of the Property. As a result, Ive looked at the
complaint from a somewhat narrower perspective than I did before. Although I recognise that
other parties were involved, Ive tried to confine myself to whats happened between Mr H,
as the beneficial owner of the SIPP, and Suffolk Life, in its capacity as the SIPP trustee and
operator.And, on the one hand, and as has been pointed out, Mr Hs co-director seems to accept
some responsibility  her email of 5 December 2018 implies that she recognises she was, in
part at least, at fault. Its possible that had she acted differently the outcome wouldve been
different. Had she noticed the account number Firm G had given her was too long (nine
digits instead of eight) and queried it with Firm G, its not unreasonable to assume Firm G
wouldve checked and given Mr Hs co-director the correct details. But it isnt clear if, when
making the payments, Mr Hs co-director simply missed off the last digit of the account
number and just inputted the shortened account number. Alternatively, its been suggested
she was able to input the full (incorrect) account number shed been given and then the
banking system somehow truncated the number, with the result that the payment went
through but to an account number corresponding to the only the first eight digits that had
been input.
I think its highly unlikely, so long after the event, that further enquiries would enable us to
get to the bottom of exactly what happened, including what real time screens the co-director
saw, what options were available to her and exactly what details she inserted and with what
result. But, had Firm G provided the correct bank details, thered be no possibility that Firm
G and/or Suffolk Life could be responsible for the payments going astray. So it isnt
unreasonable to conclude that the payments went astray howsoever they did because of
Firm Gs error.
Theres also the issue of whether Mr Hs company was further at fault by failing to confirm to
Firm G when a rent and service charge payment had been made. But Im not sure how that
wouldve changed things, given that Mr Hs co-director thought shed made both payments
successfully and so wouldve simply confirmed to Firm G that the payments had been made.
I dont think Firm G wouldve looked beyond that.
But theres also potentially fault on the part of other parties too, including Suffolk Life. Its
been suggested that Suffolk Life didnt chase up the missing rent payment quickly enough.
The SIPP terms and conditions (paragraph 10.29) provide that Suffolk Life will be
responsible for pursuing any late payments in accordance with normal commercial arrears
processes. Suffolk Life has explained its procedure for chasing unpaid rent and service
charges. It seems Suffolk Life didnt query the non receipt of the rental payments until
October 2017, by which time two quarters rent and service charge payments were
outstanding. In my view, Suffolk Life shouldve acted quicker to query sooner with Firm G or
Mr Hs company why the June 2017 rent and service charge payment hadnt been received.
That might have prevented the September 2017 payment going astray in the same way.
And prompter action may have meant it was possible to recover more from the third party
account holder. As things stood, some months had passed by the time the third party
account holder was contacted in connection with the payments that had been wrongly made
and, by then, the money had been spent and so couldnt simply be repaid. I recognise the
delay was in part due to the need to seek a court order against the third partys bank. But,
even if tracing and contacting the third party account holder would still have taken time, I
think the quicker the issue was addressed, the better the outcome was likely to have been.
All in all I think theres considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which other parties may
also have contributed to the loss. And deciding if Mr H is an eligible complainant hasnt been
straightforward. But Ive concluded I can consider a complaint from Mr H in his capacity as a
beneficiary of the SIPP. Against that background, I think it would be logical for me, in 
deciding Mr Hs complaint, to try to confine my findings to what happened between Mr H and
Suffolk Life and Firm G, who Ive found was acting as Suffolk Lifes agent.
My starting point is that Firm G, acting on behalf of Suffolk Life and as its agent, made a
serious error. Had Firm G relayed the correct bank account number and sort code theres noreason to think Mr Hs co-director wouldnt have inputted those details correctly and the rent
and service charge payments wouldve been safely received by Suffolk Life and credited to
Mr Hs SIPP. So, but for Firm Gs error, the rent payments wouldnt have gone astray. And,
as Ive said above, I think Firm G should have taken more care, both generally and for the
reasons I set out. Further, from Mr Hs perspective as the beneficiary of the SIPP, he wasnt
involved and he did nothing wrong. Theres been no, what might be termed contributory
negligence on Mr Hs part personally and as the beneficiary of the SIPP.
I recognise that Mr Hs company as the tenant of Property D is obliged to pay the agreed
rent to Suffolk Life. If the rent doesnt reach Suffolk Life then, unless it agrees to reduce or
write off the payments which werent received, Mr Hs company remains liable. In the
provisional decision I issued on 19 January 2021 I took the view that Suffolk Life should write
off the rent arrears. I cited paragraph 10.44 of the SIPP terms and conditions which refers to
third party advice being received which allows Suffolk Life to write off all or part of any
arrears due under a tenancy agreement. But I now think thats outside the scope of this
complaint which is brought by Mr H in his personal capacity. So Im not going to make any
order about the arrears as thats a matter between Suffolk Life and Mr Hs company. Ive
also considered below the money that Mr Hs company was able to recover, with legal
assistance, from the third party account holder.
Legal fees
Ive considered the legal fees that have been incurred, including Mr Hs complaint that he
wasnt told Suffolk Lifes legal fees incurred in pursuing Firm G would be payable by his
SIPP. Section 18 of the SIPP terms and conditions deals with fees, charges and expenses of
the SIPP. Paragraph 18.4 says Suffolk Life will be entitled to charge the costs set out to the
SIPP. The list includes all expenses incurred in acquiring, holding, disposing or, transferring
or valuing any investment or other asset of the SIPP. And all fees, commissions, charges,
disbursements and other costs charged by, amongst others, any third party professional (the
definition of which as set out above includes a solicitor or other legal professional). I think
thats quite comprehensive and that, on the face of it, Suffolk Life was entitled to charge the
legal fees to Mr Hs SIPP.
If Suffolk Life didnt tell Mr H that his SIPP would be liable for the legal fees, I dont think that
would change the contractual position and Suffolk Lifes entitlement, under the SIPP terms
and conditions (subject to what Ive said below), to pay the legal fees from Mr Hs SIPP. And
it could be argued that Mr H was or shouldve been aware of that anyway, as hed have been
provided with the SIPP terms and conditions. So he knew or shouldve known that any legal
fees would, ordinarily at least, be paid out of his SIPP.
Suffolk Life also says it made the position clear to Mr H (over the telephone and by email)
when action against Firm G was contemplated. Theres also an emailed letter dated 2 May
2018 from the solicitors to Suffolk Life, confirming that Suffolk Life had asked for advice in
relation to a claim against Firm G and that Mr had agreed that the solicitors fees for acting
for Suffolk Life were to be met from his SIPP. I think the solicitors wouldve been careful to
have checked the position with Mr H before confirming to Suffolk Life that Mr H knew the
legal costs would be paid by his SIPP. I think that supports what Suffolk Life has said about
having told Mr H that. It seems Mr H became unhappy about the legal fees being paid by his
SIPP because of what Firm G had said in response to the pre-action letter, namely that 
Suffolk Life had some responsibility for what had happened. On balance, and from what Ive
seen, I think Mr H was told his SIPP would be liable for the legal fees.
But I think Mr Hs complaint about not being told falls away anyway, given what Ive gone on
to say about whether Suffolk Life can deduct the legal fees from Mr Hs SIPP and taking into
account paragraph 18.6 of the SIPP terms and conditions. It says that paragraph 18.4:will not apply to the extent that the relevant costs and event is attributable, directly or
indirectly, to any fraud, negligence, wilful default or breach of regulatory duty on the part of
any member of the Suffolk Life Group or any of their employees or agents.
Ive found that Firm G was Suffolk Lifes agent. And that Firm G did something wrong. And,
arguably its mistake in giving the wrong bank account details was negligence. If thats right
then paragraph 18.6 applies and Suffolk Life isnt entitled to charge the legal fees to Mr Hs
SIPP.
Further, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for the
legal fees to be deducted from Mr Hs SIPP. Ive found that Firm G, acting as Suffolk Lifes
agent, made a serious mistake in giving the wrong bank details to Mr Hs company which led
to two very substantial rent and service charge payments going astray. Mr Hs SIPP didnt
get the benefit of the two payments which were made but which, because of Firm Gs error,
didnt reach his SIPP. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to
say Mr Hs SIPP should bear the costs of unsuccessfully pursuing Firm G for the legal fees
Suffolk Life incurred. Ive found that Firm G was acting as Suffolk Lifes agent. That would
mean Suffolk Life recovering from Mr Hs SIPP legal costs in connection with something for
which Suffolk Life itself, as Firm Gs principal, is responsible for. I dont see thats fair.
All that said, Suffolk Life has confirmed that no legal fees have been deducted from Mr Hs
SIPP. According to Suffolk Life, the solicitors instructed jointly by Mr Hs company and
Suffolk Life did raise an invoice  which I havent seen and neither has Suffolk Life  for
£1,000 plus VAT. Mr H disputed the invoice directly and it seems the solicitors didnt issue
any reminders or demands to Suffolk Life for payment. Suffolk Life considers it unlikely that
theyd raise the issue now. I agree. But, for the avoidance of doubt, should the issue arise,
Suffolk Life shouldnt deduct those costs from Mr Hs SIPP.
Legal fees - £8,452 plus VAT - were also incurred by Mr Hs company in pursuing the third
party account holder/the owner of that company. Previously I said those legal fees should be
split with Suffolk Life. But that was on the basis I thought liability for the missing rent and
service charge payments should be shared and which now isnt my view. Further, and as
Ive stressed, Im considering the complaint brought by Mr H in his capacity as beneficiary of
the SIPP. The actions of his company arent relevant to Mr H as the beneficiary of the SIPP.
Ive also thought about what should happen about the money Mr Hs company recovered
from the third party  in total £14,000 or a net balance of £3,547.58 after taking into account
the legal fees Ive just mentioned. Had any money been paid into the SIPP (whether the full
amount recovered or the balance after deduction of Mr Hs companys legal fees) I think that
would reduce the amount which Suffolk Life would need to pay to redress Mr H  the
shortfall to the SIPP would be correspondingly less. But my understanding is that no money
has been paid into the SIPP.
Ive thought about whether Suffolk Life should be entitled to deduct the £14,000 or any of it
from the award Ive made below. But Ive concluded not. Ive again taken into account that
Im not considering Mr Hs companys position. Im only looking at his complaint as a
beneficiary of the SIPP. And Ive tried to separate out Mr Hs complaint made in that capacity
from his position as a director of the company tenant of the Property. And, although other
parties were involved, Ive tried to confine myself to whats happened between Mr H as the
beneficial owner of the SIPP and Suffolk Life (and/or its agent) in its capacity as the SIPP
trustee and operator. And thats underlined my approach to jurisdiction too.
As the beneficiary of the SIPP, Mr H wasnt involved and he did nothing wrong. And
whatever the obligations of Mr Hs company, Mr H as a beneficiary had no such obligationsto Suffolk Life. It was Mr Hs company who is responsible for making rent and service
charges payments to Suffolk Life. In awarding redress my aim is to put Mr H as far as
possible in the position hed be in now, but for Suffolk Lifes agents error. But for that the two
rent and service charge payments wouldve gone into Mr Hs SIPP on the relevant dates. To
put Mr H in the position hed be in now but for the error, his SIPP should receive the full
amounts totalling £49,074.08 plus investment growth as set out below.
As Ive mentioned above, Suffolk Life may have a cause of action against Mr Hs company
and/or Firm G. The £14,000 that has been recovered will be a consideration there. But the
contractual or other obligations of Mr Hs company and/or Firm G and the outcome of any
future litigation are outside the scope of what Im considering here  Mr Hs relationship with
Suffolk Life as the provider of his SIPP.
Suffolk Life might say theres an element of double recovery for Mr H. But he and his
company are separate legal entities. Mr H may be able to access money from his company
but its funds and assets are not Mr Hs. His company has its own financial and other
obligations (including its contractual obligation to pay rent to Suffolk Life) which Mr H doesnt
have. And his SIPP is for his personal benefit and not his companys.
In awarding redress Ive also considered the points made by Suffolk Life in its letter of 14
April 2021 about possible tax implications. But I dont agree that a payment by Suffolk Life to
Mr Hs SIPP would constitute an unauthorised payment for the purposes of FA 2004.
An unauthorised payment would be a payment by a registered pension scheme to a member
which is either deemed an unauthorised payment under section 160(5) FA 2004 or another
payment which is not an authorised payment under section 160(2)(a) FA 2004. A payment of
compensation into Mr Hs SIPP by Suffolk Life would be a payment and Mr H is a member of
his SIPP. But, while his SIPP qualifies as a registered pension scheme within the meaning of
section 150 FA 2004, Suffolk Life is the SIPP provider, not a registered pension scheme. A
payment from Suffolk Life into Mr Hs SIPP wouldnt be a payment by a registered pension
scheme to a member of that scheme and so it isnt an unauthorised payment. To clarify, my
proposed award doesnt require a payment from the SIPP to Mr H but a payment from
Suffolk Lifes own assets. In that situation I dont see that Mr H will be penalised by an
unauthorised payment charge and surcharges. And Ive dealt with what should happen if a
payment into the SIPP will cause allowance or protection issues.
I note that Mr Hs representative has said Mr H should get interest at 8% on the
compensation. We might award interest at that rate where someone has been kept out of
their money. But it wont usually be appropriate where, as here, the payments wouldve been
held in Mr Hs SIPP and not accessed by him. So Im not going to say that 8% should be
added to the payments that went astray. But Ive said that compensation should be
calculated as at the date of my final decision and that interest at 8% pa simple should be
added to any compensation that remains unpaid 28 days after notification to Suffolk Life of
Mr Hs acceptance of my final decision. Thats to provide certainty in terms of the redress
calculation and to avoid the need, if redress isnt paid promptly, for any recalculations.
I also think Mr H should be compensated for investment loss. In assessing that, although the
rent and service charge payments wouldve been credited to the cash account in the SIPP
initially, I think, given the amounts involved, they wouldnt have remained there but wouldve 
been invested in line with Mr Hs prevailing investment strategy. I dont know precisely what
investments were held in the SIPP during the relevant period and it may be difficult to say
now, and without the benefit of hindsight, exactly how and where the payments wouldve
been invested throughout the period in question and which spans some years. I think it
would be fairest to add a return equivalent to the overall rate of return achieved by the SIPP
during the period(s) in question. That fairly reflects the overall investment strategy Mr H hasadopted for his SIPP and represents a fair rate of return to compensate for lost investment
growth on the missing payments.
Ive said that the return should be calculated from the date each payment wouldve been
credited to the SIPP to the date of my final decision. As Ive said, the payments Suffolk Life
shouldve received wouldve been paid into the SIPP cash account. I dont know how long it
would usually have taken for those payments to have then been invested. But Id assume,
given the amounts, that there were investment instructions in place and that the payments
wouldve been invested reasonably promptly. So the investment return should be calculated
from the date the two payments that went astray shouldve been credited to the SIPP bank
account, had the payments been sent to Suffolk Lifes correct bank account.
Suffolk Life should also make a payment to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience this
matter  the going astray of the rent and service charge payments  will have caused him.
The payments that didnt reach his SIPP were substantial amounts. Mr H will have been
concerned about the potential losses to his SIPP and the impact on his retirement provision
and planning. I think a payment of £200 would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of this case.
I went on to set out in more detail what Suffolk Life needed to do to put things right for Mr H. 
Responses to my provisional decision dated 1 March 2023
Suffolk Life made six main points in response to my provisional decision. In summary: 
1. In setting out what had happened when Mr Hs company had made the electronic 
payment, Id said, as the account number was too long, the last digit of the incorrect 
account number was omitted. Id gone on to say it wasnt entirely clear if Mr Hs co-
director left off the last digit and actioned the payment or if the payment was 
somehow processed using a truncated account number. 
Suffolk Life said, comparing the account number provided to the co-director with 
Suffolk Lifes correct bank account details, shows Firm G added an extra digit (a 4) to 
the middle of the account number. So it wasnt an omission or a truncated number as 
Id suggested. And, in her email sent on 5 December 2017 to Firm G, Mr Hs co-
director herself acknowledged that the error had been made between them  and not 
between or against any Suffolk Life entities.  
2. About the appointment of the same solicitors Mr Hs company had instructed, Id 
commented: Whatever the reason, [Suffolk Lifes emphasis] initially Suffolk Life was 
able to agree it would also instruct Mr Hs companys solicitors to advise about 
making a claim to Firm G . In Suffolk Lifes view there was an explicitly clear 
reason why Suffolk Life instructed Mr Hs chosen solicitors. Suffolk Life said Mr H 
required Suffolk Life to join on behalf of his SIPP having acknowledged the debt was 
owed to his SIPP, not to his company or to him personally. 
Irrespective of that, the choice of any third party professional (which includes 
property managers and solicitors) is made by the underlying investor. Thats due to 
the nature of the SIPP and the pension portfolio being administered on the basis that 
all [Surrey Lifes emphasis] investment led decisions are taken by the underlying 
investor personally and not the SIPP trustees or operator. The only instance where 
that isnt correct is where the investors decision is contrary to the scheme rules or 
otherwise not considered in the best interest of the scheme beneficiaries as a whole. 
The only reason Suffolk Life appointed the solicitors was as a result of Mr Hs 
instruction to Suffolk Life to do so. At his request Suffolk Life provided joint 
instructions to the solicitors to support Mr Hs previous instruction by his company. The solicitors accepted the instruction irrespective of the conflicting duties they had 
to both Mr Hs company and the SIPP separately and which they later identified. The 
conflicts position is for the solicitors to manage and not for their clients to determine 
for any given instruction. 
It is evident and arguably convenient that Mr H, having been unsuccessful in 
pursuing the full return of the funds in 2018 from the third party or Firm G, then 
turned against the only remaining party who, up to that point, had been seeking to 
support the investors own decision making and instructions  that is Suffolk Life. 
3. In my provisional decision, under the heading, Can we consider a complaint about 
what Firm G did?, Id said Id thought first in general terms about what Suffolk Lifes 
duties were. Suffolk Life said what Id said was entirely inaccurate and Id confused 
the roles of a SIPP operator and SIPP trustee  which implied an inherent 
misunderstanding of the arguments put forward by Mr Hs solicitors around statutory 
duties and liabilities of Suffolk Life and which, as a result of not being argued fully in 
court or otherwise, hadnt been materially discussed. 
Suffolk Life set out the various Suffolk Life entities involved, each of which had very 
specific duties and responsibilities both in terms of FCA [Financial Conduct Authority] 
regulation, statutory trustee duties and as a result of the devolved and contractual 
framework of the Trust Deed and Rules of the SIPP. Suffolk Life referred to the clear 
separation between the entities in law and the responsibilities and roles relevant to 
the arguments considered in relation to the duties of Suffolk Life. Suffolk Life entities 
had at all times acted in accordance with their duties and roles and in the best 
interest of the investor and underlying beneficiary of the SIPP. Investor led decisions 
and instructions given to adopt third party management of the asset had created the 
loss to the SIPP, not any derogation of the duties owed by Suffolk Life as trustee or 
separately as operator of the SIPP.
4. The fundamental basis of my provisional decision was that Firm G was acting as 
Suffolk Lifes agent and Suffolk Life had devolved regulatory responsibility. Suffolk 
Lifes view was, as an execution only SIPP provider, appropriate documentation was 
in place to ensure that investors and third parties understood the limits of Suffolk 
Lifes role in administering and managing any investment within a SIPP portfolio. 
Firm G wasnt an agent of Suffolk Life. Mr H was fully sighted to that, acquiescing to 
the arrangements by providing instructions as to that particular property manager and 
the solicitors used in respect of the particular investment. It remains within Mr Hs gift 
to support alternative arrangements for the management of his chosen investment 
assets and to move away from using Firm G for the management of this property 
asset and he hadnt done so.  
5. About what Id said about a payment by Suffolk Life (out of Suffolk Lifes own assets) 
not constituting an unauthorised payment for the purposes of FA 2004, Suffolk Life 
said any contribution into a pension scheme other than by the member or employer is 
a third party contribution. Where compensation is awarded and paid directly into the 
members SIPP, it will trigger the loss of protection. Suffolk Life said the taxation of 
any payment would be determined by specialist tax advice and not Suffolk Life who 
considered taxation consequences would arise. 
6. Suffolk Life didnt accept that any investment loss had been sustained in relation to 
the missed rental payments. In 2017 Mr H had an investment account with a third 
party provider and during that time there was a significant cash surplus, well in 
excess of the amounts contested. Cash was available for investment but Mr H chose 
not to make further investments. Suffolk Life said it shouldnt have to pay 
compensation for a loss which hadnt materialised.In summary Suffolk Life appreciated Id carried out a further analysis of the position but 
believed the conclusion Id reached wasnt a true application of the factual position, given 
what it termed obvious inaccuracies, some of which it had outlined. Suffolk Life did agree to 
pay £200 for distress and inconvenience as a gesture of goodwill, especially as the matter 
remains contested some six years after the error made between the company tenant and 
Firm G. Suffolk Life was otherwise confident in its positioning and didnt agree with my 
(provisional) decision or what it termed the punitive compensation awarded against Suffolk 
Life. It remained of the opinion that no fault should be found on Suffolk Lifes part for the 
failure of an investor appointed and investor led third party. 
Mr Hs representative didnt comment in response to my provisional decision. After expiry of 
the deadline wed set for responses to my provisional decision we sent a reminder but we 
still didnt hear further. So Ive proceeded on the basis that Mr Hs representative didnt have 
any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained before, the question of jurisdiction remains open throughout the course of 
our consideration of the complaint. Before issuing my final decision Ive thought again about 
jurisdiction. But, and in the absence of any new arguments or evidence, my views remain as 
set out previously. I maintain, for the reasons Ive explained before, we can consider the 
complaint. And I still dont think it should be dismissed. 
Ive considered very carefully Suffolk Lifes comments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
As to the first point, I dont agree Ive misunderstood what happened when Mr Hs co-director 
made the rent and service charge payment or exactly what error had been made by Firm G. 
I set out that Mr Hs co-director had emailed Firm G on 22 June 2017 asking for confirmation 
of the correct bank account for the rent and service charges to be paid, a recent payment 
having been returned. Firm G had replied the same day with the details it had for Suffolk Life 
 the sort code and account number. I went on to say the details given were wrong. Only the 
first two digits of the sort code were correct. The other four digits were wrong. And the 
account number wrong. It was nine digits. One digit (a 4) had been duplicated. 
I think its clear that I understood precisely what details had been given by Firm G and what 
error had been made in respect of the account number. I noted that the sort code was 
largely wrong too, although the reason for that wasnt clear.  
I then went on to deal with what had actually happened when Mr Hs co-director came to try 
to make the rent and service charge payment, using the (incorrect) account details supplied 
by Firm G. I said it was unclear exactly how the payment was actually processed using the 
incorrect account number. That is, whether Mr Hs co-director inserted the first eight of the 
(incorrect) nine digit number shed been given and then actioned the payment. Or if, once 
shed entered the first eight digits, the banks systems then somehow processed the 
payment. I also recorded that, after it had come to light that the payments had gone astray, 
Mr Hs co-director emailed Firm G saying that it looked like both she and Firm G had made 
an error. 
In reaching my (provisional) findings I took all that into account. I concluded, given the time 
elapsed, it was unlikely wed be able to find out precisely what had happened when Mr Hs 
co-director came to make the payment and exactly how it came to be processed. But I noted, had Firm G provided the correct bank details, thered be no possibility that Firm G or 
Suffolk Life could be responsible for the payments going astray. So it wasnt unreasonable to 
conclude the payments went astray, howsoever they did, because of Firm Gs error. That 
remains my view. I acknowledge the error was made by Firm G and not any Suffolk Life 
entity. But, if Firm G was acting as Suffolk Lifes agent, then Suffolk Life is responsible as 
principal. 
Turning to Suffolk Lifes second point, I set out the solicitors involvement, including that the 
particular firm had originally been instructed by Mr Hs company to seek to recover against 
the third party account holder. I noted that, by about May 2018, it seemed Mr H had started 
to think about looking to Firm G for reimbursement. I said I suspected he was concerned 
about whether the third party would keep to the agreement to repay and, even if it did, the 
time it would take to recover in full. But I didnt think Mr H had actually said that so I couldnt 
be sure that was his reason. Hence my Whatever the reason comment in noting Suffolk 
Lifes initial agreement to instruct the same solicitors about a potential claim against Firm G. 
I dont see, as Suffolk Life suggests, that Mr H required Suffolk Life to join on behalf of his 
SIPP because he acknowledged the debt was owed to his SIPP and not to his company or 
to him personally. Id agree the debt wasnt due to Mr H personally. And the ultimate 
recipient of the rent and service charge payments was Mr Hs SIPP. But, in the first place, 
the money was owed to Mr Hs company  it had made the two payments into the third 
partys account. As I said in my provisional decision, I think, logically, Mr Hs company would 
look first to the third party for repayment of money paid to it in error and to which it had no 
entitlement. 
Suffolk Life seems to be suggesting it had little choice and, in effect, had to agree to Mr Hs 
request to jointly instruct the solicitors. I dont see that was the situation. Paragraphs 10.19 
to 10.25 of the SIPP terms and conditions deal with third party professionals (the definition of 
which includes a solicitor and other legal professional). Paragraph 10.19 says the lead 
member (which here is Mr H as hes the sole member/client  see the definition of lead 
member in the SIPP terms and conditions) is required to specify the choice of third party 
professional in writing. But thats for whats termed subsequent transactions (that is after the 
acquisition of the property) and day-to-day management relating to the property. I dont think 
that was the situation and in respect of which a third party professional  the solicitors  was 
being appointed. 
I think the circumstances were exceptional and such that Suffolk Life could, under paragraph 
10.24, appoint solicitors without Mr Hs approval or refuse to appoint his choice of solicitors. 
Thats borne out by the fact that later on Suffolk Life did appoint a different firm of solicitors 
and without (as far as Ive seen) Mr Hs input or approval. The contemporaneous 
correspondence between Suffolk Life and the solicitors doesnt indicate that Suffolk Life 
considered it was under any obligation to accede to Mr Hs request to instruct the solicitors 
his company had been using. I dont agree the appointment of that firm was simply at Mr Hs 
request or that Suffolk Life had to agree. 
Although I agree it is for the solicitors acting, in accepting instructions, to satisfy themselves 
they have no conflicts of interest, as the matter proceeds a conflict may arise. A client may 
raise concerns that may cause the solicitors to reconsider their position and decide that 
theyre unable to continue to act. That seems to be what happened here. As I recorded in my 
provisional decision, at the outset the solicitors were happy there was no conflict of interest 
in acting for both Suffolk Life and Mr Hs company. But that later changed. The disagreement 
over responsibility for fees meant the solicitors had to step back from advising either client. 
In any event, I cant see that Mr Hs motives or whether Suffolk Life couldve refused his 
request are directly relevant. Irrespective of what might have led Mr H to ask Suffolk Life to jointly instruct the same solicitors as his company had been using, I can see why (whether 
because it seemed recovery against the third party might be problematic or more generally) 
Mr H started to think about if another party might have some responsibility in what had 
happened and for the rent and service charge payments going astray. I think making a claim 
against Firm G simply reflects what had actually happened and, in particular, the fact that 
Firm G had given the wrong bank details to Mr Hs co-director. And thats the focus of Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Nor do I agree that, when attempts to fully recover from the third party and Firm G werent 
successful, that Mr H turned against Suffolk Life as a party who, up until then, had been 
supporting him and the decisions hed made. Mr H had by then instructed new solicitors (his 
current representative). The claim made in the pre action protocol letter dated 15 November 
2018 issued by those solicitors against Suffolk Life was based on Firm G being Suffolk Lifes 
agent. I think thats simply an extension of the claim which had earlier been made against 
Firm G and based on the legal advice Mr H had been given by his current representative as 
to who might have some responsibility for Firm Gs error.   
 
As to Suffolk Lifes third point, I dont think that any very general remarks I made indicate any 
misunderstanding on my part of the arguments put forward, whether by Mr Hs 
representative or indeed Suffolk Life. Ive undertaken a very detailed analysis of what 
happened, Mr Hs complaint, and the arguments put forward both on behalf of both Mr H and 
Suffolk Life against the legal and regulatory background and taking into account what, in my 
opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
 
I didnt agree, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, that it would be more 
suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court. That remains my view. As Ive said 
before, what happened is largely agreed. There are no complex disputed factual issues. I 
dont see that any wider powers a court might have are required to determine the complaint 
fairly. Ive set out my views in detail and both parties have had the opportunity to respond in 
full as to their respective positions and provide evidence in support.
 
I note all Suffolk Life says about the various Suffolk Life entities involved. I recognise there 
are different, albeit related, legal entities with different roles and responsibilities. For 
example, Suffolk Life Trustees Limited is the SIPP trustee. Other Suffolk Life entities are 
also involved, such as SLA Property Limited. 
The respondent to Mr Hs complaint is Suffolk Life Pensions Limited as the SIPP 
administrator and operator and described as such in the paragraph 1.5 of the SIPP terms 
and conditions. As Ive said previously, Mr Hs complaint can be characterised as alleged 
maladministration of his SIPP. The complaint is about Suffolk Life (that is Suffolk Life 
Pensions Limited) undertaking (whether itself or by an agent) the regulated activity of 
operating a personal pension scheme. Thats the basis of my decision. Any references to 
Suffolk Life in another capacity are generic and dont materially impact on my decision or the 
rationale.
I dont agree it was investor led decisions and instructions given to adopt third party 
management of the asset (the Property) that caused the loss to the SIPP. I think the losses 
stem from Firm Gs error. Even if Firm G was appointed at Mr Hs request, I dont think that 
means hes responsible for any losses sustained if Firm G, acting on behalf of Suffolk Life, 
failed to carry out its duties properly. 
That leads me to Suffolk Lifes next point  that Firm G wasnt an agent of Suffolk Life. 
Suffolk Life referred to being an execution only SIPP provider and having appropriate 
documentation in place to ensure that investors and third parties understood the limits of 
Suffolk Lifes role in administering and managing any investment within a SIPP portfolio. In my provisional decision I explained why, taking into account the relevant documentation  
the SIPP terms and conditions and the PMA  I thought it clear that Firm G was acting as 
Suffolk Lifes agent. 
Essentially Suffolk Lifes duties are set out in the SIPP terms and conditions and include 
(see paragraph 10.29b) dealing with tenant and third parties enquiries and (see paragraph 
10.29k) invoicing and collecting rent and other sums due under the tenancy agreement. And 
paragraph 10.30 expressly says, where Suffolk Life has appointed a property manager, the 
property manager will carry out the duties set out at paragraph 10.29 on Suffolk Lifes behalf 
in accordance with the terms of the property managers appointment. 
I explained why, although Firm G never returned the signed PMA for the Property to Suffolk 
Life, I nevertheless considered that Firm G had been appointed by Suffolk Life as the 
property manager on the terms of the (unsigned) PMA. Section A of the PMA set out Firm 
Gs duties, including duties which, although not identical, were consistent with Suffolk Lifes 
responsibilities in paragraphs 10.29b and 10.29k of the SIPP terms and conditions. I 
concluded, given the express provision in paragraph 10.30 of the SIPP terms and conditions, 
that, in carrying out the duties Id pointed to, Firm G was acting for and on behalf of Suffolk 
Life. 
I set out what had actually happened. The company tenant had made an email enquiry on 
22 June 2017 of Firm G as to Suffolk Lifes bank details for payment of rent and service 
charges owed by the company tenant. And why, in dealing with that enquiry, and consistent 
with the SIPP terms and conditions and the PMA, I considered Firm G was acting on behalf 
of Suffolk Life. I also said why I didnt think paragraph 10.22 of the SIPP terms and 
conditions meant that a third party professional such as Firm G couldnt be acting on behalf 
of Suffolk Life. 
In my view, Firm G was undertaking duties which Suffolk Life would otherwise have had to 
carry out itself (as per Suffolk Lifes responsibilities under the SIPP terms and conditions) but 
had instead delegated to Firm G to carry out on Suffolk Lifes behalf (and in accordance with 
the PMA). Although, in dealing with the company tenants enquiry, Firm G gave wrong 
information, that didnt mean Firm G wasnt acting on behalf of Suffolk Life. My view was that 
Firm G was acting for and on behalf of Suffolk Life and as the latters agent. 
I still think thats the case. And that, in accordance with the general principles of agency law, 
Suffolk Life, as principal, is responsible for what Firm G did. I explained in my provisional 
decision why Firm Gs mistake (and theres no dispute that the bank details Firm G gave to 
Mr Hs co-director were wrong) had caused financial loss to the SIPP and ultimately to Mr H 
as the beneficiary of the SIPP.  
Ive already explained why I dont think a payment of compensation will constitute an 
unauthorised payment for the purposes of FA 2004. Ive also dealt with what should happen 
if payment of compensation into the SIPP will trigger the loss of protection. If a cash 
payment direct to Mr H is to be made, Ive adjusted the amount that should be paid to take 
into account the tax hed otherwise have paid and to ensure he isnt over compensated. 
As to any investment loss, I dont think the fact that Mr Hs SIPP may, at times, have had a 
cash surplus makes any real difference and when Ive said any investment loss should be 
calculated using the actual (net of charges) return achieved by the SIPP during the two 
periods in question. If money was held in cash during those periods that will be reflected in 
the overall rate of return. I think its reasonable to assume, if Mr Hs SIPP had received the 
two rent and service charge payments, that money wouldve been invested similarly to other 
money held in his SIPP and so its fair to use the overall rate of return achieved by the SIPP 
to calculate any investment loss.  I maintain the findings I made in my provisional decision are fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. Ive set those out above in full and they form part of this decision. 
And I still think what I proposed as to how Suffolk Life needed to put things right for Mr H is 
fair and reasonable. Ive repeated that here.
Putting things right
My aim, in awarding redress, is to put Mr H as far as possible in the position hed be in now,
but for Suffolk Lifes/its agents error. I consider that responsibility for the rent and service
charge payments (in total £47,074.08) going astray rests with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited. 
To compensate Mr H fairly, Suffolk Life Pensions Limited must:
Pay Mr H the amount of the two rent and service charge payments which went astray 
and which Ive indicated total £47,074.08.
Mr H has also lost out on investment growth on those missing payments. Suffolk Life 
Pensions Limited must pay Mr H a return on those funds calculated from the date 
each payment wouldve been credited to the SIPP bank account to the date of my 
final decision.
That rate of return should be equivalent to the overall rate of return achieved by the 
SIPP (net of charges) during the two periods in question.
These payments should be made into Mr Hs SIPP to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payments should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
In carrying out that calculation any additional sums paid into the investment should 
be added to the calculations from the point in time when they were paid in. Any 
withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if they are totalled and all those payments deducted at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the SIPP if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If Suffolk Life Pensions Limited is 
unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. On the assumption that Mr H is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if hed have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Interest at 8% pa should be added to any redress unpaid after 28 days of when 
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited receives notification from this service of Mr Hs 
acceptance of the final decision.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited must also pay Mr H £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Suffolk Life Pensions Limited 
considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, Suffolk Life Pensions Limited should tell Mr H how much has been taken off 
and give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Suffolk Life Pensions Limited must redress Mr H as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman