DRN-3222909
The complaint
Ms H complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Black Horse, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms H. The car here was about 
two years old and had already completed about 24,000 miles. I think a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect too much wear and tear on a car of that age and mileage.
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality we should consider whether it has been durable. The dealership confirmed there 
were issues with the timing belt on this car when they looked at it in 2021 and as another 
garage has now replaced the timing belt and the car has been working well, I am persuaded 
that there was a timing belt fault. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a timing belt 
to fail after only 50,000 miles of driving. The technical specification suggests the timing belt 
on this vehicle should be replaced at 90,000 miles. So, Im persuaded that this car hasnt 
been durable and therefore hasnt been of satisfactory quality.
Black Horse have suggested they should be allowed to pay for the repair to the car as Ms H 
accepted a repair. In those circumstances, they say they shouldnt be asked to support 
rejection of the vehicle.
I dont agree. The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault and 
I think the business had that opportunity in March 2019 when they say the car was 
recovered to a manufacturing dealership having cut out. Whilst the business didnt identify a 
fault at that point I think the same thing happening in December 2020 suggests, on balance, 
the problem was a reoccurrence and not an isolated incident. In those circumstances, I think 
Black Horse should allow Ms H to reject the car as the repair has failed. 
Ive considered whether Ms H getting the car repaired in 2021 is her acceptance of repair as 
a resolution to her problem, but I dont think it is. I dont think Ms H was given an option to 
reject the car, the business wanted £700 to simply diagnose the issue and hadnt committed 
to refunding that that money if Ms H paid it. 
Putting things right
Black Horse should take the car back and end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Ms H has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Ms H had to have the car repaired and I think its fair for Black Horse to refund that money. It 
seems the repair would always have needed to be completed before the car could be sold, 
and its therefore fair for Black Horse to refund the repair cost as the price theyll attain for 
the car will now be higher. I think the repair has been completed at a reasonable cost as I 
can see the dealership wanted £700 to merely strip the engine and diagnose the problem 
and the repair cost was only a few hundred pounds more.
Ms H has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to arrange a repair. Shes also had to escalate 
her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances Black Horse should pay her £150 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ms H was given a courtesy car and kept mobile between 8 January 2021 and 3 March 2021. 
But between 17 December 2020 and 8 January 2021 she couldnt drive the car and didnt 
have a courtesy vehicle. She also had to have the car repaired and wouldnt have used it 
during that time. Taking all that into account I think Black Horse should refund January 
2021s monthly instalment in respect of the lack of use Ms H has had from the car. Theyll 
need to add interest to that refund as Ms H has been deprived of the money.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Black Horse Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Ms H.
Refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the timing chain repair of £1,038 and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the January 2021 finance instalment adding 8% interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.Pay Ms H £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Hs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman