DRN-3213147
The complaint
 Miss E complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC sent her a third partys information 
when she made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). She wants more compensation 
than Barclays offered her.
What happened
 On 30 April 2020, Miss E raised an online DSAR with Barclays. 
On 11 May, Barclays sent the DSAR and it was delivered by courier on 13 May. In the pack, 
Miss E also received another customers DSAR which included mortgage and personal 
information. She didnt know what to do with the information, and took it to a branch. She 
said she was worried that her own data had been sent to the third party by mistake.
Miss E complained to Barclays, saying she thought it was a breach of data protection. She 
also said shed submitted numerous DSAR requests and hadnt heard anything from 
Barclays.
In its final response letter, Barclays replied that it had looked into this carefully. As 
documentation for a DSAR was only printed once, it confirmed that Miss Es documents 
hadnt been shared with anyone else. It said it took it very seriously that another customers 
data had been sent to her. Barclays said it had provided feedback to the team which had 
mistakenly picked up another customers information as well as Miss Es, and had included it 
in Miss Es envelope with her own information.
Barclays also said that it only had one record of Miss E having made a DSAR, which had 
been on 30 April which it had sent out on 11 May.
Barclays offered Miss E £75 for the upset caused and the trouble she said shed had logging 
a complaint.
Miss E wasnt satisfied. She contacted this service. She told us about an earlier complaint 
about Barclays, but later clarified to the investigator that her complaint to us was about the 
DSAR. There was also an issue about whether Miss E had brought her complaint to this 
service within the time limits set by our rules, but it was decided that we could look into it.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. He explained that this service cant make 
a finding on whether the data protection rules GDPR had been breached, but we could 
comment on whether or not Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably in processing Miss Es 
DSAR.
The investigator didnt agree with Miss E when she said Barclays hadnt processed the 
request quickly enough. He also said that there was no evidence that Miss Es details had 
been passed to anyone else by mistake. But he could appreciate Miss E would be worried, 
and he thought Barclays should pay Miss E £125 compensation.
Barclays agreed, but Miss E didnt. Miss E sent a long email. She said she deserved £1,000 
compensation as her case had now been escalated to this service. She set out multiple 
points including:
- A Barclays employee had told her that her complaint was exceptional;
- There had been improper disclosure of private information, which might be damaging 
to her reputation and safety;
- Barclays repeated errors had caused embarrassment to her over a significant period 
of time;
- There had been breaches of data protection;
- Her address details, account, notepad entries, and personal information had been 
disclosed;
- Inaccurate information had been provided;
- Barclays had delayed processing her complaint;
- Barclays had delayed communicating with her;
- Barclays hadnt kept her up to date with the progress of her complaint, and hadnt 
apologised;
- Barclays had taken too long to investigate;
- There had been uncertainty about whether her personal details had been swapped 
with multiple other customers;
- Shed had to chase Barclays for updates;
- Her initial DSAR request had been delayed;
- Shed had to take other customers personal information into a branch, where shed 
been interrogated by staff about why she had it. She said she felt like a fraudster and 
was embarrassed;
- She hadnt had a call back, and there hadnt been action or written responses.
The investigator replied to these points. He appreciated that Miss E had been concerned. 
But he said that although he couldnt say with certainty her data had been sent to anyone 
else, there was no evidence to show that had happened. He also noted that Miss E had 
raised a number of previous complaints about other matters with Barclays, and it had sent 
final response letters in June 2020, August 2020 and April 2021. These had each been 
about separate issues and in line with complaints handling guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Barclays had investigated them separately. And this guidance said 
that businesses have eight weeks to reply to complaints.
The investigator didnt agree that Miss Es request for £1,000 compensation was reasonable. 
He still thought that £125 was fair. Miss E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Miss E has raised multiple points in her submissions to the service. Ive understood and 
looked into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
First, this service doesnt have the authority to say whether or not Barclays breached the 
data protection rules GDPR. Thats the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Miss E told us that shes contacted the ICO.
Looking first at Miss Es request for her DSAR, she said that shed had to raise the request 
multiple times before Barclays lodged the request. Ive looked at Barclays internal systems 
notes. As Ive set out above, these show that Miss E lodged her online request on 30 April, 
and that Barclays sent the DSAR on 11 May, and it was delivered by courier on 13 May. Our investigator asked Miss E for any evidence that shed made previous requests, but she didnt 
provide any. So on the evidence that I have, I find that Barclays processed Miss Es DSAR 
request in a timely manner. Separately, I understand that there had been some delays in 
dealing with her various previous complaints, but I find Barclays acted in line with the FCA 
timescales for complaints.
When the DSAR arrived, I appreciate that it would have been worrying for Miss E to have 
received someone elses data together with her own DSAR, because shed have wondered 
whether her own data had been sent to someone else as well as to her. She went to a 
branch to return the information which wasnt hers, and shes said she was interrogated 
about why she had someone elses data. Its not possible for me to say for certain what was 
said, as there isnt evidence such as call recordings, but there would have been 
inconvenience in taking the information in.
Ive considered whether its likely that Miss Es data was disclosed to any other customer. 
Barclays explained that what happened was that a DSAR is only printed once. It said that 
what happened was that someone in that team picked up the third partys printed 
information, and put it into the envelope together with Miss Es printed information. The fact 
that the process is to print only once, and that Miss E did receive her own DSAR, means 
that, although I cant say for certain, I consider its unlikely that Miss Es information went to 
anyone else.
When this service considers compensation, we do so in relation to things which have 
actually happened. So, for example, I can take into account the fact that Miss E took the 
DSAR to a branch, but not the fact that her data might have, but probably didnt, go to 
another person.
Ive looked at the list of factors which Miss E raised in response to the investigators view. 
But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that Barclays made all the errors 
which Miss E has claimed here. I dont consider compensation should be £1,000 as Miss E 
believes. To give just two examples, it was a one-off error and didnt carry on over a 
significant period of time. Nor do I consider there was a delay in processing the original 
DSAR.
I consider that £125 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss E £125 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Its not clear to me whether 
Barclays has already paid Miss E the £75 it offered, but if it has, this should be deducted 
leaving a further £50 to pay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman