DRN-4215136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling and 
settlement of a claim they made for repairs to a damaged underground pipe at their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G reported a below ground leak, from a pipe serving their home, to Admiral  
their home insurance provider. 
Mr and Mrs G explained they had already made arrangements to have the leak repaired by a 
local contractor because theyd needed to shut off the water supply to their home to stop the 
leak, and so would have no water for their family until the repair was completed.
Admiral agreed Mr and Mrs G could get the works completed and gave instruction as to what 
evidence they needed to capture during repairs so that the claim could be validated. But 
following the repairs, Admiral disputed the necessity and cost of the repairs which 
Mr and Mrs G had carried out. So, instead of reimbursing the full costs theyd incurred, 
£4,500 + VAT, it settled the claim for £1,296.23 + VAT (less the policy excess)  which is 
what it said its contractors could have carried out a suitable repair for.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. He thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. He said Admiral 
hadnt persuaded him that the works Mr and Mrs G carried out were excessive or 
unnecessary. He also said Admiral hadnt shown that it warned Mr and Mrs G that it would 
limit any settlement to the costs of its supplier. So, he said it would be fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to pay the full costs incurred by Mr and Mrs G and to pay 8% simple interest on any 
unpaid amount.
Admiral didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy do explain that Admiral can decide how to settle a claim, 
and that it can limit the amount of a cash settlement to the amount it would have cost for it to 
carry out a suitable repair through its chosen supplier. But as an ombudsman, Im not bound 
by a strict application of the policy terms and conditions. Instead, my role is to consider what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
There is limited evidence available to show precisely what was discussed when 
Mr and Mrs G first raised their claim. But theyve maintained they werent told that by going 
ahead with their own repair, the most Admiral would pay would be its own suppliers costs. 
Neither were they told the works their contractor said were required would be challenged. 
Mr and Mrs G have been consistent in their testimony about the initial claim discussions 
throughout their complaint. And the contemporaneous notes and emails Ive seen from 
Admiral dont appear to contradict their testimony either. So, on balance, Im persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs G were not adequately advised about the potential implications of their decision 
to go ahead with their own repair.
I consider it would have been good industry practice for Admirals adviser/claim handler to 
have made clear all the potential implications of Mr and Mrs Gs intention to carry out their 
own repair, so they could have properly made an informed choice. Because Im persuaded 
this didnt happen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint, for Admiral to limit the cash settlement to its suppliers costs.
In addition to being limited to its suppliers costs, Admirals cash settlement wasnt based on 
the full works Mr and Mrs G had carried out. Instead of replacing the full length of 
underground pipe between the leak and stop cock, Admiral said its supplier would have 
carried out a bypass, at a lower cost. This was based on a desktop review of the video, 
photos and invoice Mr and Mrs G supplied (as instructed) by its supplier. Heres what was 
said:
The insured reported a leak to the water supply pipe. A 3rd party contractor 
(redacted) investigated and carried out repairs. Photos, a video clip and an invoice 
for £4,500.00 + VAT was provided. Having reviewed the supplied evidence, we 
confirm a leak to the pipe beneath the property. The 3rd party contractor replaced the 
whole supply from the external stop tap to the internal one (amount charged is high). 
The leak could have been resolved by part re-routing the supply. Using insurer rates, 
the costs for an investigation and bypass repair are £1,296.23 + VAT.
Mr and Mrs G provided their own comments to explain why a bypass wasnt carried out. 
They explained:
As can be clearly seen from the video and photographic evidence we have provided, 
whilst it might have been possible to cut into the pipe above the leak, the position of 
the leak (100-200mm below the level of the solid concrete floor of the utility room at 
the point at which the pipe bent and continued underground to the main utility 
isolating valve at the top of the drive), would have required the pipe to have been 
extensively excavated to access a suitable point below the leak to repair the situation 
with an effective by-pass. Ie it was not feasible to conduct a simple by-pass in this 
situation without a degree of significant excavation. Furthermore, the proximity of the 
mains electrical conduit (it entered the property directly adjacent to the leaking pipe) 
would have meant conducting any excavation and by-pass repair activity in very 
close proximity to a live electrical mains conduit at a point before the main supply 
meter and RCD breaker in the house. This would potentially have required the 
electricity board to isolate the house (and any others fed from the same source) from 
the main supply for the duration of the repair causing additional cost and 
inconvenience, because as I'm sure you are aware, in accordance with HSE advice 
and guidance (HSG47) if possible any work should be conducted after eliminating the 
risk/designing out the risk as far as reasonably practicableThe above are essentially all of the technical representations/explanations as to the works 
which were completed, or allegedly could have been completed. In situations like this, where 
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what do I consider to be more likely, in light of the evidence and 
arguments which are available.
Having carefully considered everything, I find that the weight of evidence in this case 
supports Mr and Mrs Gs position, rather than Admirals. Admiral is the one seeking to 
reduce the settlement, so the onus is on Admiral to show that this is fair. And I dont believe 
it has done so.
I say this because Admirals report lacks any sufficient detail as to how a bypass could have 
been completed given the positioning of the pipe, how it could have been completed for the 
amount it has suggested, or how it could have been completed safely given the close 
proximity of the electrics  which doesnt seem to be in dispute. Im also mindful that its 
supplier never carried out a site inspection, but rather based its findings solely on a desktop 
assessment after the fact.
I appreciate the explanations regarding the need to replace all the pipework (rather than 
bypass) have come from Mr and Mrs G themselves, rather than their contractor  and so 
cant be considered an independent expert opinion (although as I understand it, their 
expertise is in electrical health and safety). But despite their opinion not being independent, I 
still find their explanations to be more persuasive than Admirals suppliers, particularly when 
considered against the photos, video, and invoice.
Ultimately, for me to be persuaded by Admirals position, Id need to be satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs G had acted unreasonably by carrying out the repairs they did, and that the 
amount Admiral has paid so far in settlement of the claim would actually have been sufficient 
to carry out an alternative, successful repair safely. But Admiral hasnt persuaded me of 
either. So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think Admiral should cover the 
full costs Mr and Mrs G incurred in repairing the issue  less the policy excess.
This means Admiral must pay Mr and Mrs G the difference between the amount already paid 
and the cost of their invoice. Admiral should also add 8% simple interest to the amount 
outstanding, from the date Mr and Mrs G were out of pocket, to the date they are 
reimbursed. This is to compensate them for being deprived of the use of that money for 
other purposes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
Pay the difference between the settlement already made and the full amount incurred 
by Mr and Mrs G.
To that amount, add 8% simple interest* from the date they were out of pocket to the 
date they are reimbursed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.* If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman