DRN-2950726
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Limited, trading as Fiat Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Hes being helped with his complaint by his representative.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Fiat Financial 
Services that he electronically signed in November 2018. There were some issues with the 
car that were dealt with by the dealer. The car broke down in December 2020 and the dealer 
said that it required a new engine. It said that the oil pump had failed but the engine had 
been damaged when Mr C continued to use the car after the oil warning light came on.
Mr C complained to Fiat Financial Services and said that he wanted to reject the car. It said 
that hed had reasonable usage from the car since 2018 and it had been driven for 5,539 
miles since it was delivered to him, all previous repairs had been completed under warranty 
or as a gesture of goodwill, and it wouldnt be willing to accept his rejection of the car. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the problem appeared to be 
due to wear and tear and she thought that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr C. She didnt think that it would be fair to ask Fiat Financial Services to do 
anything more to resolve his complaint.
Mr Cs representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says that the engine management warning light or oil warning light didnt 
come on while Mr C was driving the car, the car has had several problems with oil leaks 
despite having regular services and that the engine seized not long after having a service 
and MOT. She says that whenever a problem occurred the car was taken in for repair.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Fiat Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr C was more than six years old, had been driven for 
52,285 miles and had a price of £5,025;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the dealer has described the repairs that its made to the car  the first repair was in 
February 2019, it was repaired again in April and November 2019 and in January 
2020  and the coolant housing was replaced in October 2020 when the mileage was 
recorded as 57,824;
those repairs were made under the cars warranty or as a gesture of goodwill and Ive 
seen no evidence to show that Mr C complained about, or the dealer investigated, 
any oil leaks since the first repair in February 2019;
the car passed an MOT test in November 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 
58,286  advisories were noted but none of them related to oil leaks;
the dealer says that the cars oil pump failed in December 2020 and that Mr C 
continued to drive the car which damaged the engine and the engine needs to be 
replaced  its offered Mr C a new replacement engine, a second-hand engine or a 
reconditioned engine but says that hed have to pay for it;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there was a fault with 
the cars oil pump when the car was supplied to Mr C or that a fault was developing 
with it at that time  if it had been faulty I consider it to be reasonable to expect that it 
would have failed sooner than it did and I dont consider it to be likely that Mr C would 
have been able to use the car for more than two years and to drive 6,000 miles;
I sympathise with Mr C for the difficulties that hes had with the car but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to him; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Fiat Financial Services to allow Mr C to reject the car, to pay for the engine to be 
replaced, to pay any compensation to him or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman