The complaint
Miss B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In July 1995, Miss B applied for a credit card. At the same time, a PPI policy was added to 
the account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the card, so she'd repay the extra cost with 
interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss B thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think that it should be upheld. Miss B 
didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first checked if Miss B was given the choice to buy PPI.
Miss B says she says she cannot remember where the sale took place. But she says at no 
point was it made clear that the policy was optional and if this had been made clear she 
would have declined it. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen 
about the sale.
Barclays says Miss B applied for the policy during a meeting in a branch. I've seen a copy of 
the application form. To add PPI to the account, Miss B needed to complete a separate 
part of the application form, headed "Payment Protection Plan". This included a box labelled
"Yes, I want my Barclaycard account(s) to be covered against unemployment, 
accident, sickness and death. Subject to any application for a Barclaycard being 
accepted, I authorise you to debit the Barclaycard account(s) to which this application 
relates with the monthy premiums due until further notice from me to the contrary, or 
termination of the Plan."
This box is ticked.
DRN-1075469There's another box, labelled "No, I do not require protection and understand that it is still my 
responsibility to repay the outstanding balance if I am unable to work or I die". This box is 
not ticked.
So though I recognise Miss B doesn't think she wanted the policy, I think it's more likely Miss 
B knew she had a choice about the PPI and chose to buy it.
Barclays says it recommended Miss B buy the policy. So it had to make sure the policy was 
right for her. Based on what I've seen of Miss B's circumstances, I think it was. Miss B wasn't 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. Though Miss B got some sick pay 
if she couldn't work, this policy would have paid a tenth of the outstanding balance each 
month for up to a year if Miss B was off work sick or lost her job.
I accept that the information Barclays gave Miss B about the policy may not have been as 
clear as it should have been. But Miss B chose to buy the policy, so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. I think the cover could have been useful to her if something went wrong. It 
looks like it was affordable. So I don't think better information would have put her off buying 
it.
This means Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss
B, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything else Miss B has said. But these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesn't have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman