DRN-1352623
Complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a regular 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out his mortgage.
Background
Mr M took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1995. At the same time, he was sold a PPI 
policy. A successful claim wouldve covered his mortgage payments in the event Mr M was 
unable to work because of illness, injury or unemployment for up to 24 months following a 
waiting period of 90 days.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
Nationwide had made the 90 day waiting period clear and thought had it done so Mr M 
wouldnt have agreed to take the policy. Nationwide disagreed. So Mr Ms complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr M have copies of all the paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. But where there is limited 
information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think its likely Nationwide did give 
enough clear information to Mr M.
I say this because the PPI had a 90 day waiting period  meaning Mr M couldnt make a 
claim if he was unemployed, injured or too sick to work for the first three months. 
Nationwide says that as part of its process Mr M wouldve been given a PPI leaflet including 
information about the 90 day deferment period. I dont know if he actually received or read 
this leaflet but, even if he had, I dont think the information about the waiting period was 
sufficiently prominent to draw Mr Ms attention to this term.
And I think this piece of information wouldve mattered because Mr M says he was not 
entitled to any sick pay other than statutory sick pay and he didnt have any other means of 
supplementing his income if he couldnt work such as savings.
Mr M was solely responsible for this mortgage, so I think his income was important and had 
he been unable to work, that wouldve had a significant effect on his financial situation. So, I 
think if Mr M was unable to work he wouldve struggled to keep up his mortgage repayments 
for the initial three months before he was able to make a claim. And I think its more likely 
than not that he wouldve wanted to be able to make a claim on the PPI policy much sooner 
than 90 days  particularly as he had such limited other means of making his repayments.
Ive taken into account what Nationwide has said about the arrears management measures it
wouldve offered Mr M if he was struggling to make his repayments during the 90 day waiting 
period. But these measures are informal and are at the discretion of Nationwide, so theres 
no guarantee that this type of help wouldve been offered or available when Mr M may have 
needed it.
So, I dont think Mr M wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had made this 90 day waiting 
period clear and I think Mr M has lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
What Nationwide should do to put things right
Nationwide should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman