DRN-4353767
The complaint
Mr D is complaining Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has avoided his car insurance 
policy and declined a claim he made.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr D bought a car and took out an insurance policy  provided by Skyfire  
to insure it. In December 2022 Mr D was involved in an accident with a third partys vehicle 
where his car suffered significant damage. So he contacted Skyfire to claim for the damage 
on his insurance policy. Skyfire inspected his car and said it had been modified from its 
original form. But it said Mr D hadnt told it about any modifications and it said it wouldnt 
have insured him had it known about them. So it avoided his insurance policy, declined to 
cover Mr Ds claim and said he needed to repay the amount it had paid to the third party for 
their claim.
Mr D didnt think Skyfire were being fair as he said he didnt know the car had been modified. 
He thought it was unfair for it to decline his claim and he said he was around £55,000 out of 
pocket as a result, so he referred his complaint to this Service.
Since then, Skyfire provided this Service with the original advert for the car which it said 
showed the car wasnt modified when it was sold to Mr D. The investigator discussed this 
with Mr D and he then admitted hed modified the car himself, but panicked when Skyfire 
raised this.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She acknowledged that Mr D had given false and 
misleading information to Skyfire when it raised the issue about the modifications. But she 
said she needed to think about whether this had ultimately impacted on Skyfire liability  i.e. 
would Mr D still be in the same position if hed been open and honest at the start. She didnt 
think it had. 
The investigator said Mr D only needed to tell Skyfire about things that fundamentally 
changed the risk Skyfire were being asked to insure. She said Mr D had added a lower front 
bumper spoiler, tinted the fog lights and added a vinyl wrap behind the number plate. She 
thought the addition of the bumper spoiler would have made the car more stable, but she 
essentially thought the changes were cosmetic. She didnt think theyd changed the risk 
Skyfire were insuring, so she didnt think Mr D needed to tell it about the changes hed 
made.
Skyfire didnt agree with the investigator as it said the terms of the insurance policy set out 
that Mr D needed to tell it about any modifications. And it said it had shown it wouldnt have 
insured Mr D had he done so. So it maintained it was entitled to have done what it did.
As Skyfire didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
As its now been established that Mr D added the modifications after he bought the car and 
during the policy term, I need to think about whether he should have contacted Skyfire to 
advise of the changes hed made. 
The Consumer Insurance (Representations and Disclosures) Act 2012 set out that a 
consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering 
into or varying the contract with an insurer. But importantly theres no ongoing duty for the 
consumer to advise an insurer of any changes in their circumstances once the contract 
begins. However insurers will generally add a policy condition requiring them to do so. 
In this case, the terms of the policy set out the following:
Changes which may affect your cover
As some changes will affect your cover, you should tell the insurer immediately about any 
change to the details you have previously declared on your Statement of Fact, for example:
a modification to your car which improves its performance or handling, including over the 
air updates from your vehicle manufacturer. Any modification which improves the value 
or increases the chances of it being stolen or someone breaking into it to steal what is 
inside.
However, I think this is a significant ongoing duty towards Mr D and, if Skyfire wishes to rely 
on such a term, I would expect it to have highlighted this outside of the terms of the policy. 
Insurers will generally do this in a policy summary, or an insurance product information 
document. But I cant see that Skyfire has brought this term to Mr Ds attention. So I dont 
think Skyfire has done enough to ensure Mr D was aware he needed to disclose material 
changes that affected the performance, value or desirability of the car.
However, I am also acutely aware that Mr D lied to Skyfire about how the modifications 
came to be on the car. Clearly Mr D should have been honest with Skyfire at the start about 
the modifications and Ive thought about whether this should have an impact on whether I 
can reasonably require Skyfire to settle his claim. In thinking about this, Im conscious of the 
Supreme Court ruling in Versloot Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG. In this 
case, the Court ruled that, to be able to decline a claim on the grounds of fraud, the lie needs 
to:
 Make a claim that wouldnt normally be paid under the policy appear to be one that 
would be; or
 Increase the amount the consumer could claim for, to more than theyre entitled to.
So, the question for me to ask is, by not being honest about the modifications, has Mr D 
hidden something that would have impacted Skyfires liability on the claim  in short, would 
Skyfire still have had to pay the claim under the terms of the policy anyway had he said at 
the start that hed arranged for the car to be modified himself.
The policy conditions required Mr D to let Skyfire know about anything that changes the 
details Mr D previously declared on his Statement of Fact. However, I dont think its fair for 
an insurer to require a consumer to have to disclose every single thing that changes and 
particularly where it doesnt actually change the risk that the insurer is insuring. When an 
insurer enters into an insurance contract it effectively promises to cover the policyholder against certain insured perils. And in many cases, if the consumer's circumstances change 
during the term of the policy, that is generally just part of the risk the insurer agreed to take 
on  so long as it doesnt change the actual risk. 
So, what this means, is that Id generally think its only fair that an insurer can require a 
consumer to tell it about something that fundamentally changes the actual risk their insuring 
 i.e. something that changes the likelihood of loss or damage occurring. And I think this is 
supported by the examples of what Skyfire has set out about what it would expect 
consumers to tell it about.
Ultimately, the question for me in this case is whether I think the modifications Mr D had 
carried out to the car have changed the actual risk Skyfire was being asked to insure. I dont 
think they did and Ill explain why.
I think tinting the fog lights and adding a vinyl wrap to the area behind the number plate were 
purely cosmetic, so Im satisfied they dont change the risk. The key issue here is the front 
spoiler. However, this Service has done a lot of research regarding this and Im not 
persuaded it makes the risk higher. Generally, I understand the effect of a front spoiler is to 
redirect the air flow and helps make the car more stable. So, if there is any effect on 
performance, it arguably makes it less likely that an accident will occur. But I dont believe 
this was a particularly expensive addition and it seems to me that the effect of the spoiler 
was large aesthetic. And Im not persuaded its changed the performance of the car in any 
form.
Ive also thought about whether the additions make the car more valuable or likely to be 
stolen. But, as I said, I dont believe that these additions have materially changed the car. So 
Im not persuaded it changed its desirability or value.
Taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded the modifications have fundamentally 
changed the risk Skyfire has been asked to insure. Im aware Skyfire has said its shown it 
doesnt cover vehicles that have certain modifications. So it thinks it has shown the risk has 
changed. I do not dispute what its risk assessment criteria says, but this goes to how Skyfire 
assesses a risk  i.e. it perceives a car that is modified is a risk it doesnt want to insure, but 
it doesnt mean the risk has actually changed. 
In short, the crux of this is whether there was an actual increased risk to Mr D suffering loss 
or damage immediately after he added the modifications and, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think it did.
So, it follows that I dont think Mr D needed to disclose these modifications until it came to 
renewing the insurance policy. As a result, I think Skyfire would have still had to settle the 
claim even if Mr D had been clear and honest at the outset. So I cant reasonably say that 
Mr Ds dishonesty could have had any impact on Skyfires liability. Im not saying I excuse 
Mr Ds actions. Clearly he should have been clear and honest throughout. But I have to take 
into account what the terms of the policy say and the law. 
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was fair for Skyfire to have avoided the 
policy, declined Mr Ds claim and looked to recover what it paid out on the third partys claim. 
And I think it should do the following to put things right:
1. Remove all record of the policys avoidance/cancellation from internal and external 
insurance databases;
2. Settle Mr Ds claim in line with the terms of the insurance policy. It can deduct any premium refund it gave from any settlement it made; and
3. Cease any recovery action regarding anything it paid out on the third partys claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Ds complaint in line with my 
instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman