DRN-1429300
The complaint
Mr G complains about the premium increase to his reviewable whole of life policy (the policy) 
by Aviva Life Services UK Limited (the business).
He says:
The policy is too expensive. 
The terms and conditions havent been applied correctly.
What happened
In 1994, Mr G was advised to take out the policy by a third-party broker. 
Mr G says that although theres been no premium increase, in 2019 it increased from £38.52 
a month to £75.48, which is unaffordable given that his only income is his pension. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she made the following key points:
Although she can understand why Mr G is unhappy with the premium increase, shes 
unable to say that the business has done anything wrong. 
The premium increase  despite it being above 125% cap suggested in the terms 
and conditions  isnt unjustified, given the way that a reviewable whole of life policy 
operates. 
If the premium isnt enough to support the sum assured, it will have to increase to 
maintain the sum assured. This, along with options open to Mr G if hes unhappy 
about paying a higher premium, is made clear within the terms and conditions of the 
policy and documentation provided. 
Because the policy was qualifying the business couldnt reduce the sum assured to 
less than 75% of the premiums from the commencement of the policy to the age of 
75. There were also premium spreading tests that have been applied which means 
that the premiums cant increase higher than 125% without Mr Gs consent. 
By default, the business reduced the sum assured because it cant automatically 
increase the premiums without Mr Gs agreement to pay the higher sum.  
This is why Mr G was sent the review letter dated 4 May 2019, in which he was given 
the option to increase his premium to maintain the sum assured or pay the same 
premium and reduce his sum assured. 
Over the years Mr G wouldve received the reviews which wouldve highlighted the 
possibility of future premium increases to maintain the sum assured. 
The premium increase is a natural consequence of how a reviewable whole of life 
policy would operate. 
Shes unable to say that the business has behaved outside of its terms and 
conditions. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said:
In 2005, the business told him the investment built up to date [i.e. the accrued 
amount in the savings component of the policy] shall be used in the future to support 
the life cover costs, (when deductions exceed the premium payable) before an 
increase in premium is required to maintain the current level of benefits at a plan 
review. 
He doesnt think the sum has been used as stated as he checked with an adviser. In 
the letter dated 14 October 2019, a sheet of figures was supplied to him, but they 
referred to the deductions made for the life cover component, not sums taken from 
the savings component to support the life cover.
The investigator has used one part of the terms and conditions to support another, 
thereby changing the context and meaning of what was said. He still believes that 
according to the terms and conditions the premium can increase but not above 
125%. 
The letter of 14 May 2019 (not 4 May 2019) made no mention that hed have to 
consent to increase the sum assured. 
At no time was he told that there was an option to limit the premium increase to 
125%. He was just given the option to keep paying the same premium or pay a 
higher premium. 
He wanted to keep the premium the same, but this wasnt by consent as it was the 
only the realistic option. For the business to suggest otherwise is disingenuous. 
He asks why his attention wasnt drawn to a third option to limit his premium increase 
to a 125% increase, with a modest reduction in sum assured. 
He chose to pay a higher premium but did so in protest and subject to the outcome of 
his complaint. 
He didnt consent and was never specifically asked to provide his consent to pay a 
higher premium. 
He feels that the business is just hiding behind its terms and conditions. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reason. Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr G says, Im not persuaded 
that the business behaved unreasonably by reviewing the policy and giving him the option to 
pay an increased premium (to maintain the sum assured) or pay the same premium (and 
reduce the sum assured). 
Before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr G and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether 
(or not) the business has done anything wrong. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I think its still important to reiterate the type of policy Mr G is complaining about is known as 
a reviewable whole-of-life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term but is instead 
designed to pay out on death whenever it occurs.  
At the start of the policy, the amount of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number of different factors, including future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent known at the start. This is why, despite what Mr G says, 
he couldnt have been told precisely how the premiums were going to increase. I also dont 
think that any provider couldve given an assurance that the premiums wouldnt increase 
over a certain amount. 
I appreciate that plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost 
of premiums are likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost or increased 
cost of the premiums. 
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover 
is not fixed and actually increases with age. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age, as the risk of making 
a claim becomes higher. 
I note that Mr G is now in his 60s and is more likely to make a claim than he wouldve in his 
30s when he took out the plan. It doesnt mean that the policy was designed to stop Mr G 
from continuing with the policy in later life when hes likely to need it most. Im mindful that 
its around 25 years since the policy was taken out so the premiums are bound to be 
higher.   
The term that Mr G refers to has to be read within the wider context of the other policy 
documentation and terms and conditions referring to the general nature and operation of the 
reviewable whole of life policy. 
I appreciate Mr G feels that his premiums shouldnt have increased above 125% of what he 
was paying, but given the nature of these policies, its simply impossible to set a limit on the 
premiums, without reduction in the level of cover. I dont agree with Mr Gs interpretation of 
the term that it gave an undertaking that the premiums wont increase beyond 125% of what 
he was paying. 
In other words, its unlikely that Mr G would be able to maintain the sum assured by paying a 
premium thats not going to be 125% higher than what he was paying at the outset, for the 
rest of his life. This isnt how reviewable whole of life policies operate.   
So, applying the basic principle upon which this policy operates, if the premium isnt enough 
to support the sum assured, it will have to increase.  The hope is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the 
policy reaches the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being 
paid. Whilst projections can be made, there are no guarantees, and may explain the rise in 
recent times.  
At each review the business needed to make new assumptions, about the cost of cover, life 
expectancy and investment performance in the future. These will have helped determine 
whether or not the premiums Mr G paid could maintain the level of cover or whether hed 
need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover. Given the way these policies 
operate, theres just no way to put a limit without reducing the sum assured. 
Its not possible to predict future premium increases with any degree of accuracy. But not 
being able to predict future premiums doesnt mean the policy isnt being administered 
correctly. And, whilst the cost of premiums has increased over the years  over 125% - its 
important to note that this doesnt mean that they wouldnt need to continue to increase in 
future. So even though Mr G decided to increase his premiums at the 2019 review, that 
doesnt mean he wouldnt need to make increases on future reviews to maintain the same 
level of cover. And theres no guarantee that in future it wont increase more than 125%. 
Once these calculations are completed, the business can determine whether the policy has 
passed the review  usually meaning no changes to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually meaning the policyholder will be offered the choice of either paying a higher 
premium to maintain the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. Its important to remember that this is in line with common industry practice and 
isnt unique to the business. 
Im satisfied the policy documentation and review letters makes clear what happens when a 
premium isnt enough to support the sum assured and the options that are open to the policy 
holder. 
And thats why in 2019 Mr G was given the choice to increase his premium (to maintain his 
sum assured) or continue to pay the same premium to maintain the sum assured. 
Whether this was giving consent  as the business suggests  or providing authority, the 
business needed Mr G to make a choice, and if he didnt it seems the default position would 
be to reduce the sum assured so that he could continue to pay the same premium as he had 
been. 
I think it would be wrong to expect Mr G to pay a higher premium every time the policy failed 
a review unless he had elected to do this and/or given his prior authority. 
On balance, Im satisfied given the nature and operation of the policy, it allowed the business 
to do what it was doing and that it  as the insurer  didnt mislead Mr G about how the 
policy would work. 
I appreciate Mr G feels the business is being disingenuous  hiding behind terms and 
conditions  and that he chose the only realistic option. He also asks why his attention 
wasnt drawn to a third option to limit his premium increase to a 125%, with a modest 
reduction in sum assured. 
But this is because there isnt a specific third option. What Mr G alludes to broadly falls 
within him continuing to pay the same premium  so no increase to his actual premium but 
the sum assured would reduce, thereby ensuring that he would pay nowhere near the 
premium increase to maintain the sum assured. But it was only with his authority that the business could continue to charge a much higher 
premium  even over the 125% increase he refers to  to maintain the sum assured (or even 
a higher sum assured), and not something that itd impose on him without giving him a 
choice.
So, in 2019, Im satisfied Mr G agreed to pay a higher premium to maintain the sum assured. 
I note he says he was forced to take this action and did so in protest, not through consent. 
But Im satisfied that Mr G had options and chose to increase his premium and maintain his 
sum assured. He didnt have to, and certainly didnt have to in order to pursue the complaint 
with our service, which is something he couldve done regardless.  
I appreciate Mr G wasnt specifically asked for his consent  but the effect of the options 
was to ask him to decide whether or not he wished to go with one option over another, which 
I understand the business took to mean the same thing in its response to Mr G.   
Despite what Mr G says, Ive seen no reason for the business to specifically ask for his 
consent or to provide a third option (with a pro rata option) which simply doesnt exist for 
reviewable whole of life policies. Therefore, the business has done nothing wrong by not 
doing so. 
The business is obliged to take on board and apply the figures from its actuaries. And Ive 
seen no evidence that it hasnt operated in the way that it was designed to. In other words, 
Im satisfied that the business is entitled to set its premiums, based upon advice from its 
actuaries, in the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, and its not for us to tell it 
how to run its business. Despite how Mr G might feel, and notwithstanding my decision, the 
business doesnt have free reign to increase premiums without justification. 
So far as the business responsibilities (as the policy provider) are concerned, on balance 
Im satisfied that it provided policy documentation that was (overall) reasonably clear, fair 
and not misleading. I appreciate the point Mr G makes about the 125% cap but that has to 
be read in context of the wider policy documentation provided and not in isolation because 
the policy was only guaranteed for the first 10 years.  
There is simply no way that a whole of life policy provider can guarantee a maximum 
increase cap, without reducing the sum assured. And this in my opinion what the term is 
saying. 
Therefore, although the premium increase was higher than 125%  Mr H would only have to 
pay that if he chose to (and is what the investigator referred to as consent) otherwise he 
could continue to pay the same premium without any increase at all and well within the 
125% cap. 
 
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman