DRN-3099286
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go 
Skippy is responsible for her car being impounded for having no car insurance policy in 
place.
Mr D is representing Miss A in her complaint. For ease Ill refer to the complainant as Miss A 
in my decision.
What happened
Miss A bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Somerset. Unfortunately Miss A was 
stopped by police when carrying out a vehicle registration check on her car. Miss A provided 
details of Somerset  and after speaking with them  the police said Somerset couldnt trace 
a live policy. So it impounded Miss As car. 
Miss A spoke with Somerset after her car was impounded and it was established that she 
did have a policy. But when Miss A applied for the policy online one of the digits of her 
registration plate was incorrect. Having cleared up the confusion, Miss A contacted the 
police and provided the details of her policy and her car was released.
Miss A didnt receive a conviction or fine, but she had to pay the impound release fee. She 
complained to Somerset about what happened to her as she believed it was responsible. 
Miss A wanted Somerset to reimburse her for the impound release fee. 
Somerset didnt uphold Miss As complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the incorrect 
registration details being recorded for Miss As car as she provided the information online. 
Miss A didnt agree and so she asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator found some inconsistencies in the information provided by Somerset, Miss 
A and what the police officers account of their contact with Somerset was. But ultimately she 
thought that  as it was Miss As responsibility to check shed provided the correct details 
about her car when buying a policy, the outcome would have been the same  even with the 
inconsistencies. She said that because the registration details were incorrect, Miss A would 
have still been stopped by the police  and with the correct registration details provided, 
Somerset wouldnt have been able to trace a live policy. So the investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss A didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree there are some inconsistencies in regard to what information the police officer was 
given when he called Somerset to find out if Miss As car was insured. The police officer told 
Miss A that Somerset said her policy had cancelled a few days after it was bought. Somerset 
disputed this. But it said it could only find a policy with the (correct) registration details from 
2019 which had lapsed. 
But irrespective of the differing accounts  I dont think it would have changed what 
happened. The responsibility to provide correct registration details when applying for a policy 
rested with Miss A. Unfortunately due to Miss As error here, this meant her car didnt show 
as being insured when the police stopped her. This would have happened in any event and 
isnt something Somerset is responsible for.
The registration details the police officer gave Somerset didnt tie in with any live policy for 
Miss A, due to the error. So  even if the accounts were consistent  the outcome would still 
have been the same because Miss As correct registration details were not on the policy 
shed bought  so Somerset wouldnt have been able to trace her car. 
I understand Miss As upset at being stopped by the police  when she had after all paid for 
insurance. But because of the mistake in recording the car registration details  I cant hold 
Somerset Insurance responsible for what happened. It therefore follows that I dont think it 
should reimburse Miss A for any related costs as a result.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman