DRN-3845584
The complaint and what happened
Miss E complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund several 
payments from her account which she says she didnt make. She also complains about 
overdraft charges. 
I issued a decision last month and explained that I could only consider Miss Es complaint 
about the disputed transactions (to a mobile network) and overdraft charges from 22 March 
2016 onwards  shed complained too late in relation to account activity prior to that date. 
I passed the case back to the investigator to issue their assessment on the merits of what 
this could consider.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. They explained that Halifax was only 
entitled to refund an unauthorised payment if Miss E had notified Halifax within 13 months of 
the date of each transaction she disputed; Miss E raised concerns long after this period. In 
relation to overdraft-related charges, the investigator noted that there was just one occasion 
when interest was applied to Miss Es account for being overdrawn. The investigator was 
satisfied that this had been applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Miss E didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unrecognised transactions to the mobile network
Looking at Miss Es account statements, the last transaction to the mobile network which she 
disputes took place on 3 July 2017. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009) is relevant here. According to PSR 
2009 Regulation 59, a payment service user is entitled to redress only if it notifies the 
payment service provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction.
Looking at Halifaxs account terms and conditions applicable at the time, it says:
Except for direct debits or payments made using an overdraft, we will not refund the 
payment if you tell us more than 13 months after it was made that the payment was not 
made properly or was unauthorised.
As Miss E didnt contact Halifax until 2022, I dont think its decision not to refund the 
payments is unreasonable given the time thats passed.
Charges
Having looked at Miss Es account statement for the period starting from 22 March 2016 and 
earlier this year, when she made a complaint, the only overdraft-related charge that I can 
see is £0.01 interest that debited the account on 1 August 2017. 
Miss E is right in that the type of account she held at the time didnt offer an arranged 
overdraft facility. While there was no arranged overdraft facility in place, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that the account couldnt have gone into an unplanned overdraft. There 
may be occasions when this might happen. For instance, a debit card transaction that is 
approved when sufficient funds are available may be collected by the merchant a few days 
later, by which point the funds have been withdrawn by the account holder. It seems to me 
that this is what happened here. And it left Miss Es account in an unplanned overdraft for 
three days. According to the account terms and conditions, although Halifax didnt charge an 
overdraft usage fee on that type of account, it was entitled to charge interest on the 
unplanned overdraft. This is why Miss E paid £0.01 in debit interest. 
I can see that since the investigators assessment, Miss E has also queried a £10 fee that 
was applied to her account on 1 April 2016. This fee is for a direct debit being returned 
unpaid. A returned item fee is different to overdraft-related charges. Ive looked at the 
account terms and conditions from the time and they state that Halifax can charge a £10 fee 
if its unable to make a payment (such as a direct debit) due to insufficient funds. And this 
applies to the account Miss E held.
All in all, Im satisfied that the fees and charges were applied correctly in line with the terms 
and conditions applicable at the time. I realise that this will come as a considerable 
disappointment to Miss E. But in the circumstances, I dont find that Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman