DRN-2706645
The complaint
 Mr L is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 In March 2020, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. He paid a £600 deposit and the agreement was for £4,890 over 46 months, 
with monthly repayments of £130.29. At the time, the car was just over 11 years old and had 
done 78,000 miles.
Mr L said that he started having problems with the car on the day it was supplied to him. He 
complained to the dealership and hes said that, over the next three to four months, the car 
went in for repair a number of times. And, in June 2020, the dealership arranged for the 
repairs to be completed by a gearbox specialist. But Mr L said he continued to have 
problems with the car.
In July 2020, Mr L complained to Close Brothers that the gearbox was leaking oil, the car 
vibrated, and there were problems with the drivers side wheel bearings and suspension. He 
asked to be able to reject the car. Close Brothers arranged for an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. The independent engineer said that the previous repairs on the car hadnt 
been completed correctly. So Close Brothers gave Mr L the right to reject the car.
Mr L initially agreed with Close Brothers that hed keep the car if it could be repaired 
properly. But he then changed his mind and said he wanted to reject the car. Because the 
car had been off the road for five weeks, and Mr L hadnt been provided with a courtesy car, 
he arranged form the car to be repaired so it could be used  he needed to car to be able to 
get to and from work. And, because Mr L had had the car repaired, Close Brothers said he 
could no longer reject this.
Mr L was unhappy with Close Brothers decision, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said, from the evidence shed seen, it was likely that that car was faulty 
when it was supplied to Mr L  he had problems with the gearbox, and he made several trips 
to the garage to get sensors replaced as the engine management light kept comping on and 
the car would go into limp mode. So she didnt think the car was of a satisfactory quality. And 
she thought Close Brothers needed to do something about this.
The investigator said that Mr L should be able to reject the car, because Close Brothers had 
already had the opportunity to fix the car and these repairs had failed. She said that Mr L 
didnt have use of the car for around seven weeks in total, so he should be refunded the 
equivalent amount of payments (plus interest); and that Close Brothers should pay him an 
additional £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
But the investigator thought that, because Mr L had initially been given the right to reject the 
car, and he chose to have the car repaired without giving Close Brothers the opportunity to 
do so; Close Brothers didnt need to refund Mr L the costs of these repairs.
Close Brothers didnt respond to the investigators view. The MOT was due on the car in 
March 2021, and Mr L would need to pay for repairs so the car could pass the MOT and he 
could continue to use it. Because Close Brothers had delayed in responding, the investigator 
also told them that, if Mr L needed to repair the car to get it through the MOT in the 
meantime, then shed also expect them to refund him the costs related to the MOT repairs.
Close Brothers asked for more time to respond to the investigators view, and her additional 
comments about the MOT costs, but they havent done so. Because of this, this complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Close Brothers are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by 
what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr L took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
Its not disputed that Mr L was having problems with the car from when it was supplied to 
him, or that the dealership who supplied the car attempted to repair the car before Mr L 
complained to Close Brothers.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 29 July 2020. This says that the 
gearbox and driveshaft were leaking oil; that the gearbox had been worked on recently, 
appeared to have split, and had been repaired with silicone sealant; that the shock 
absorbers were leaking heavily; and that the ball joints were leaking grease. The 
independent engineer said the car wasnt fit to be driven for a road test.The independent engineers opinion was that the recent repairs to the gearbox hadnt been 
carried out satisfactorily; and that the ball joint had been damaged when the gearbox was 
removed for repair. The independent engineer recommended the car should be returned to 
the dealership for further repair. They also said that on the balance of probability the faults 
found would have been developing at finance inception.
Based on this report, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied 
to Mr L. The CRA allows for one chance at repair, and this repair has taken place. As the 
independent engineer has confirmed the previous attempt at repair has failed, Mr L should 
be allowed to reject the car. And Im pleased to see that Close Brothers initially offered Mr L 
this option in a phone call on 19 August 2020.
I appreciate that Mr L needed his car for work and, because he was without transportation, 
Ive seen that he paid £220 for repairs to the car on 26 August 2020  new driveshaft oil 
seals were fitted, and the split covers for the ball joints were replaced. Ive also seen that he 
paid £182.21 on 2 November 2020 for a new fan belt, headlamp bulbs and wheel balancing.
Because the August 2020 repairs took place after Close Brothers had told Mr l that he had 
the right to reject the car, and Mr L didnt give Close Brothers the opportunity to make these 
repairs; I agree with the investigator that Close Brothers dont need to reimburse Mr L for 
these costs. I also agree that Close Brothers arent responsible for the costs of the 
November 2020 repairs  these are wear and tear items and werent identified by the 
independent engineer as faults on the car when it was supplied to Mr L.
However, on 1 September 2020, Close Brothers said Mr L could no longer reject the car 
because hed had some repairs done. Mr L needed the car to be able to get to and from 
work, and hed not been offered a courtesy car even though the independent engineer had 
said the car wasnt fit to be driven in its current state. So I dont think the fact that Mr L had 
some temporary repairs done to keep him mobile changes the situation - it doesnt mean the 
car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, or that the previous attempts to repair the 
car hadnt failed. So I dont think that Close Brothers acted reasonably by telling Mr L that he 
no longer had the right to reject the car. And this right to reject should still exist.
Turning to the costs Mr L incurred getting the car through the MOT. Mr M had an obligation 
to maintain the car in a reasonable order and condition. And, to do this, it would require him 
to make sure the MOT remained in place and valid. Additionally, he was still paying for the 
car, still needed to use this to get to work, and he couldnt replace the car until this matter 
was sorted. It cost Mr L £1,287.52 to get the car to the minimum standard to pass the MOT. 
And, if Mr L been allowed to reject the car, then he wouldnt have incurred these costs. So Ill 
also be asking Close Brothers to reimburse these. 
Putting things right
 Close Brothers should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr L.
remove all record of the agreement from Mr Ls credit file.
refund the £600 deposit/part exchange contribution to Mr L.
refund Mr L the equivalent of seven weeks payments, to compensate him for the 
period of time he was without use of the car.
reimburse Mr L the £1,287.52 costs relating to the MOT in March 2021.
pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above, to be calculated from when Mr L made 
the payments to the date of the refund.Pay Mr L an additional £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman