DRN-3111205
The complaint
Mr S has complained that his motor insurance provider MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) 
unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy, and the affect this has had on him. 
What happened
Mr S held a motor insurance policy with MCE.
On 17th January 2021 MCE attempted to take a payment from Mr S, but this was declined. 
MCE attempted to take the payment a second time on 24 January 2021 but again the 
payment was declined. Each time a payment was missed a late payment fee was added to 
Mr Ss account.
On 28 January 2021 Mr S called MCE and agreed to make a payment towards his insurance 
by 2pm on 1 February 2021.
Mr S called MCE to make a payment towards his account before the agreed time on 1 
February 2021, but MCE was unable to take a payment from Mr S due to technical issues. 
MCE advised Mr S to call back after 3pm and confirmed his policy would not be cancelled.
Mr S received a text message later the same day stating his policy had been cancelled.
MCE accepted it had made a mistake in cancelling Mr Ss policy. Although MCE was unable 
to reinstate Mr Ss policy it did remove the cancellation charges and only asked Mr S to pay 
for the time he was covered under the policy. MCE offered to quote for Mr Ss motor 
insurance again, but he declined this offer.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and felt it should be upheld. She said MCE 
should pay Mr S £150 for the trouble it had caused him. MCE disagreed so this complaint 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by Mr S or MCE. What is in dispute is 
whether MCE has already done enough to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
Its clear that Mr S missed a payment he was supposed to make against his motor 
insurance, and that late payment charges were added to his account as a result. The 
charges that were applied are detailed in Mr Ss insurance policy and considered to be 
reasonable charges for administration costs incurred due to missed payments.
Its also clear that as Mr S was unable to make his payment on time, MCE agreed a date he 
could make a payment to prevent his motor insurance from cancelling. But following a 
technical issue MCE cancelled Mr Ss policy in error.
Mr S has explained the cancellation of his policy has caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience along with financial difficulty due to losing work.
MCE agreed to only charge Mr S for the insurance he had used and offered to quote for a 
new policy. I think Mr S could have avoided losing a substantial amount of work by taking out 
a new policy.
But I also think MCE caused Mr S undue stress when it cancelled his policy shortly after it 
agreed that it wouldnt. I can also appreciate that Mr S may not have wanted to continue to 
be insured with MCE given his experience, and its possible he did lose out on work 
opportunities while considering other insurance options.
Putting things right
In addition to what MCE has already done to resolve Mr Ss complaint it should also pay him 
a further £150. I think this is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience MCEs error 
caused Mr S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. MCE Insurance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman