DRN-3861133
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) dealt with the renewal and subsequent cancellation of his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr T had motor insurance with RSA. About four weeks before the renewal date, RSA wrote 
to him to invite him to renew the policy. RSA wrote again two weeks later as Mr T hadnt yet 
renewed. On the morning of the renewal date, RSA cancelled the policy as it hadnt heard 
from Mr T or received payment for the policy renewal. Later the same day, Mr Ts payment 
was matched to his account by RSAs finance team. Mr T had made the payment by bank 
transfer a few days earlier.
RSA contacted Mr T and explained the policy had been cancelled. RSA offered to reinstate 
the cover, but Mr T decided to cancel the policy and asked for a refund. 
Shortly after this, Mr T complained to RSA about the cancellation and that he hadnt received 
the refund. Later he also complained that the refund had been made to his credit card, 
although he had asked RSA not to retain the credit card details.
RSA failed to log Mr Ts letter as a complaint. As Mr T hadnt had a response to his 
complaint, he complained to this service. When we contacted RSA, it said it hadnt had a 
complaint from Mr T and it asked for the usual eight weeks we would give it to respond. 
However RSA still didnt respond to Mr T in the time allowed, so his complaint was allocated 
to one of our investigators.
Before our investigator had sent their view about the complaint to Mr T and RSA, RSA sent 
its final response letter to Mr T. RSA upheld Mr Ts complaint, apologised and said it was 
sending him a cheque for £275 for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint, but said RSAs offer was reasonable and fairly 
addressed the impact of its errors. 
Mr T wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr T wants additional compensation to cover the extra cost of the new motor insurance 
policy he took out and the costs of the tracked postage for his letters of complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Ts complaint but I think what RSA has already offered to do to resolve it is fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr T has told this service that the compensation RSA awarded him was satisfactory as far 
as its wrongdoings were concerned, so Im not going to go into any detail about these. 
However Mr T says this compensation didnt cover the extra expenses he incurred. 
RSA offered to reinstate Mr Ts insurance policy, but he chose to cancel it and take out an 
alternative policy elsewhere. He says this was more expensive and he wants RSA to pay the 
difference.  However because Mr T could have kept the original policy with RSA at no extra 
cost, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect RSA to compensate him for the 
extra cost of the new policy.
Mr T also wants RSA to compensate him for the cost of the tracked postage to send his 
complaint letters. This service doesnt expect businesses to cover the usual reasonable 
costs of making a complaint, so Im not asking RSA to compensate Mr T for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. But I think what Royal and Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n has already offered to do is fair and 
reasonable. If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n has already 
paid the £275 compensation to Mr T, Im not asking it to do anything more. If Royal and Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n hasnt yet paid the £275 compensation to 
Mr T, I require it to do so now.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman