DRN-3357029
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with how Creation Financial Services Limited has dealt with her request for 
a refund of payments she made for a sofa using her Creation credit card.
 
Mrs Fs complaint is being dealt with by her representative, Mr F. For simplicity, I will refer to 
Mrs F throughout.
What happened
At the end of 2019, Mrs F ordered a sofa from a supplier Ill call J. She paid the deposit and 
the balance using her Creation credit card. The sofa was delivered in March 2020. A few 
weeks later, Mrs F told us part of the sofas mechanism had stopped working. She told J 
about this and it arranged a visit from a technician from a company Ill call H. By the time of 
the visit, Mrs F was also unhappy with the sofas material as it had started to sag.
 
Mrs F told us that, when the technician was there, he tried to fix the mechanism but couldnt 
and he needed to order replacement parts. She also told us the technician thought there was 
no problem with the sofas material. Soon after, Mrs F asked J for her money back. But its 
position was that it should be given the chance to repair the sofa. Mrs F wasnt happy with 
this and asked Creation for a full refund. It treated this as a claim under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
In short, Creation also thought that the supplier should be given the chance to repair the 
fault. But Mrs F said that J had tried  and failed  to fix the problem. She told Creation this 
meant she met the criteria for a full refund as set out by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA 2015). Creation didnt agree. Briefly, it said it couldnt see that a full attempt to repair 
the sofa had been completed.
 
One of our investigators looked into this for Mrs F. He also thought no repair had been 
carried out and Creation should be given the chance to rectify the fault. He said Creation 
should pay £75 compensation to Mrs F for the delays in dealing with this matter. Mrs F didnt 
agree with our investigator. She repeated that the repair hadnt worked, and she wanted a 
full refund.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2022. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why. But 
first, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has 
been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the key issue here: should Creation have given Mrs F a full 
refund?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail or argument, only those that Im satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) sets out that, in certain circumstances, as 
the provider of the finance used to pay for the sofa, Mrs F has a like claim against Creation 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, J. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here. 
Its not disputed that theres been a breach of contract here as the sofa doesnt work as it 
should. All the parties accept theres a problem with the sofas mechanism. What is disputed 
is what should be done to put things right. Mrs F is asking for a full refund of the cost of the 
sofa. She says the provisions of the CRA 2015 allow this.
 
In very general terms, the CRA 2015 sets out that, where theres a problem with the goods 
outside of an initial 30-day period, Mrs F has a right to require the supplier to fix the problem 
so that it conforms to the contract. If that repair isnt successful, or takes an unreasonable 
amount of time, she then has a final right to reject the goods. Creation says a repair hasnt 
been attempted. But Mrs F insists Hs technician tried  and failed  to repair the sofa when 
he visited her property. So, I need to decide if a repair has been attempted and, if it has, do 
the goods now conform to the contract.
 
Im satisfied that the key event here is when Hs technician first visited Mrs F after shed 
reported the problem to J. Mrs Fs testimony is that the technician attempted a repair but 
made matters worse. Shes been consistent on this point throughout. J, in an email to Mrs F, 
said it understood the first technician did attempt to rectify the problem, but generally he 
would have just been trying to identify the cause of the problem. Ive looked at Creations 
correspondence with Mrs F. It states that when the technician looked at the sofa, he found a 
missing or dislodged pin. He replaced this, but the mechanism still didnt work correctly.
 
Creation has said it doesnt consider this to be a repair. I dont agree. Mrs F asked J to fix 
the sofa and it arranged for a technician from H to come out. Its not disputed that the 
technician replaced the missing or dislodged pin. Mrs F says the technician tried to fix the 
problem. J says the technician tried to fix the problem. If replacing the missing or dislodged 
pin had fixed the problem, Im satisfied that its reasonable to think everyone would have 
accepted a satisfactory repair had been carried out. But the attempt didnt fix the problem.
 
So, Im satisfied Mrs F gave the supplier one opportunity to repair the goods so they 
conformed to contract, and this hasnt worked. It follows that Im also satisfied this means it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mrs F to be able reject the goods and for Creation to give 
her a refund.
 
Ive also thought about if Creation should compensate Mrs F for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced due to its handling of her S75 claim. Our investigator 
thought Creation should pay Mrs F £75 for this. I agree.
 
Im satisfied Creation could, and should, have settled this matter much earlier. I think by mid-
September 2020, Mrs F had supplied detailed information to Creation about the reasons for 
her claim. Based on this, I think Creation had enough to settle her claim at that point. But it 
didnt. So, Mrs F has had to continue to pursue this matter. Taking all this into account, I 
think £75 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the individual circumstances of 
this case.
 
In summary, for the reasons outlined above, Im minded to direct Creation to:refund the £2,900 cost of the sofa to Miss Fs credit card account, backdating this to 
21 September 2020 - being the date I think it should have settled her S75 claim. It 
should reconstruct her credit card account to reflect that the refund was given on this 
date. If, after doing so, this shows Mrs F would have been in credit at any point, it 
should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date she would have been in 
credit until the date Creation refunds this.
arrange for the sofa to be collected from Mrs F at no cost to her.
if any adverse information is showing on Mrs Fs credit file due to this dispute  and 
Ive not been made aware if it has  Creation should arrange for this to be removed.
pay Mrs F £75 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Creation didnt accept my provisional decision. Briefly, it said Mrs F received the goods in 
March 2020 but didnt report the fault until June 2020. It says this shows there was no fault 
found with 30 days which would have entitled Mrs F to a refund. Creation also repeated that 
no repair has been attempted and the retailer should be given an opportunity to rectify the 
issue.
 
Creation went on to say that if, in the future, the goods do need to be collected, it cant 
arrange this  instead, Creation would ask Mrs F to arrange for her council to collect the 
goods and it would cover the costs. Creation did agree that some form of compensation is 
due to Mrs F for the delays in dealing with this issue.
 
Mrs F accepted my provisional decision. She also pointed out that shed paid off her 
Creation credit card in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has said that, as Mrs F didnt report the fault till a few months after the sofa was 
delivered, this shows no fault was found within the 30 days that would entitle Mrs F to a 
refund. But this is a moot point given that Mrs F isnt asking for a refund under her short-term 
right to reject under the CRA 2015 - which seems to be what Creation is implying.
 
The CRA 2015 sets out that if the goods dont conform to contract  for example theres a 
fault as there is here  Mrs F has a short-term right to reject the goods and get her money 
back. Generally, in Mrs Fs situation, theres a 30-day time limit from when the goods were 
delivered for her to exercise this right. But as above, thats not what Mrs F is asking for.
If a problem arises after the short-term right to reject time limit has passed, other rights are 
available to Mrs F. As I set out in my provisional decision detailed above, the CRA 2015 sets 
out that, where theres a problem with the goods outside of the short-term right to reject, 
Mrs F has a right to require the supplier to fix the problem so that it conforms to the contract. 
If that repair isnt successful, or takes an unreasonable amount of time, she then has a final 
right to reject the goods. Thats the right Mrs F wants to exercise. So, Creations point about 
no fault being found within 30 days has no bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
Im satisfied the crux of this complaint remains the same: has a repair been attempted and, if 
it has, do the goods now conform to contract? Im sorry to disappoint Creation here, but 
nothing its said in its response to my provisional decision has changed my mind.
 
Creation says at no point was a repair undertaken. For the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I dont agree. Hs technician identified a missing or dislodged pin. He replaced this. If this fixed the problem, it would be fair and reasonable to say a repair had 
been carried out. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say a repair wasnt carried out 
because replacing the missing or dislodged pin didnt fix the problem. I remain satisfied a 
repair was attempted and the goods didnt conform to contract afterwards. Im also satisfied 
it follows that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to now allow Mrs F to reject the 
goods and get her money back.
 
Ill now turn to Creation not being able to arrange to have the sofa collected. Its said it isnt 
able to do this. Instead, its said it would ask Mrs F to arrange for the council to collect the 
goods and Creation would cover the cost. I think this is a sensible way forward, up to a point. 
But in order to minimise the inconvenience to Mrs F I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Creation to pay her the councils likely costs up front. Ive looked at the councils website. 
It shows a price range for the collection of similar items to be between £63 and £95. So, I 
think Creation should pay her £79  the midpoint of this range - to cover this.
 
Finally, Im pleased to see Creation accepts Mrs F should be compensated for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced due to the delays in dealing with this matter. It hasnt 
challenged the £75 outlined in my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to change this 
award.
 
For completeness, I know Mrs F has told us she no longer has a credit card account with 
Creation. I would point out that the redress outlined in my provisional decision does allow for 
this situation. Specifically, if after reconstructing her account, it shows Mrs F would have 
been in credit at any point, Creation should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date she would have been in credit until the date of settlement. This means that if the 
reconstruction shows there would have been a credit balance once the account was closed, 
Creation needs to refund this together with the 8% simple interest.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Creation should:
refund the £2,900 cost of the sofa to Miss Fs credit card account, backdating this to 
21 September 2020 - being the date I think it should have settled her S75 claim. It 
should reconstruct her credit card account to reflect that the refund was given on this 
date. If, after doing so, this shows Mrs F would have been in credit at any point, it 
should pay 8% annual simple interest on this amount from the date she would have 
been in credit until the date Creation refunds this. *
pay £79 to Mrs F to cover the likely cost to her of arranging for the sofa to be 
collected by her council.
remove any adverse information showing on Mrs Fs credit file due to this dispute. 
pay Mrs F £75 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
* If Creation thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
simple interest outlined above, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited must take the action Ive set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman