DRN-1589916
The complaint
Mr H complains about not being able to access Nationwide Building Society's online banking 
facility.
What happened
Mr H had held a number of accounts with Nationwide for over 10 years. And during that time 
he made use of online banking. 
Nationwide wrote to their customers and explained their online banking would no longer 
support Windows XP or Vista from the end of September 2019.  They said this was because 
those systems were unable to provide the necessary security. 
Mr H was unhappy Nationwide only gave him 30 days notice of the changes. Mr H used 
Linux on his computer and asked if that would be supported by Nationwide's online banking. 
Nationwide said they didn't think the system Mr H used was secure enough either, so he 
wouldn't be able to access online banking with it. Mr H was unhappy with this response as 
Nationwide hadn't explained why the system he used wasn't secure. He was also unhappy 
because he didn't know how he would be expected to check his accounts as he doesn't live 
near a Nationwide branch. Mr H also said he has limited mobile phone signal in his area, so 
he wouldn't be able to use Nationwide's mobile banking app to check his accounts. As 
Nationwide didn't resolve Mr H's concerns, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr H's complaint. He explained it was for Nationwide to decide 
which operating systems were supported by their online banking facility. So he didn't think 
Nationwide had treated Mr H unfairly by taking steps to ensure online banking remained 
secure. Our investigator also said it may have been helpful it Nationwide had explained why 
they didn't support Linux. But, he wouldn't expect a bank to go in to detail about why it didn't 
support particular systems.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasons below.
I should start by saying our service can't tell a bank which operating systems it has to 
support with its online banking facilities. That's a commercial decision for individual banks to 
make. All we can do in cases like Mr H's, is to decide whether another customer, with similar 
circumstances, would have been treated the same way.
We expect banks and building societies to take all necessary steps to ensure their 
customers accounts are safe. And that may involve changes to the way customers are able 
to access their accounts. I wouldn't necessarily expect the bank or building society to go in to great detail about the changes, as those decisions are often commercially sensitive. But if 
changes are made, I'd expect a business like Nationwide, to give their customers notice of 
those changes.
In this case, Nationwide made the decision for their online banking to no longer support 
Windows Vista or XP. And they did this because those operating systems were no longer 
going to be updated by Microsoft. That meant they may not be secure going forwards. Given 
Nationwide's concerns about online security, I think taking steps to protect their customers 
accounts was a sensible one. So I can't agree their decision in this regard was unfair on Mr 
H.
As mentioned above, I'd expect Nationwide to give their customers notice of changes. And 
Mr H doesn't dispute he received this notice. So, I'm pleased that happened. I've reviewed 
the information Nationwide sent out. And this explains the other Microsoft operating systems 
their online banking supports. That's something I'd expect Nationwide to provide, as it 
explains what their customers can use so that they can continue using the online banking 
facility if they chose to. Nationwide's letter also explained customer's could use their mobile 
banking app if online banking would no longer be suitable or available to them. Again, I 
consider this level of information was appropriate as Nationwide gave their customers 
options of how they could continue to access their accounts remotely.
I've taken on board what Mr H has said about the limited mobile signal where he lives. So I 
understand using a mobile banking app isn't a suitable alternative for him. But Mr H hasn't 
said why he wasn't able to change the operating system on his computer if he wanted to 
continue using online banking with Nationwide. Nationwide made their decision for the 
benefit of the majority of their customers. So, if it's a case of Mr H choosing not to change 
his operating system, rather than being unable to, I again can't agree Nationwide treated him 
unfairly.
Part of Mr H's complaint is that Nationwide didn't give him enough notice of the changes - he 
felt 30 days wasn't sufficient. Nationwide say their terms and conditions say they will give 
customers 30 days notice of changes to their accounts. I've seen the relevant terms and 
conditions for the accounts Mr H held, and I'm satisfied that is the case. I appreciate Mr H 
may have wanted more time before the changes took place. But I've not seen anything to 
suggest he was given less time than other Nationwide customer. I've also not seen 
any information as to why 30 days wasn't enough time for him to get an operating system 
that was supported - if he wanted to continue using the online banking system. The evidence 
I've seen suggests Nationwide acted in line with their terms and conditions when giving 
notice about the changes to their online banking facility. So, I don't consider they did 
anything wrong in respect of this part of Mr H's complaint.
Mr H has told us that Nationwide's actions meant he chose to move his accounts elsewhere. 
While it may not have been ideal for Mr H to change banks, it seems he was able to find 
one that provides the services he needs. And as mentioned above, it's for Nationwide to 
decide which systems it supports. And I've not seen any evidence to persuade me Mr H was 
treated differently to any other customer with similar circumstances. So, I won't be asking 
Nationwide to do anything to put things right.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr H's complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman