DRN-4498267
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the consequences arising from the delay caused by London & 
Colonial Services Limited (trading as L&C Pensions) in purchasing and investing two 
separate investment trusts into her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in April 2020. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H met with an overseas financial adviser and agreed to transfer their 
defined benefit pension schemes into new international SIPP plans with L&C Pensions. I 
understand most of the funds were held within international investment bonds, managed by 
a third party, which allowed for the opportunity to hold a full range of available funds in the 
market within it. But it also carried a 1% early redemption penalty per year for 10 years. 
Subsequently Mr and Mrs H moved 80% of their funds into a new SIPP with another UK 
provider, where it remains. But, because of the possible invocation of the 10% early 
redemption penalty, the remaining 20% remains invested in the SIPP. From this point Ill 
refer to Mrs H solely - as this is her complaint, but Mr H has a similar complaint which we are 
also considering.
On 2 April 2020 Mrs H wrote to L&C Pensions  on behalf of her and her husband, in 
respect of the ongoing charges which were applied to their plans. In the same letter she 
asked for their SIPP funds to be invested, in an equal split of 40%, into two separate 
investment trusts with the residual amount left in cash. On the same day L&C Pensions 
confirmed receipt of the instruction and said it had instructed the asset provider to carry out 
the request. 
Separately on 3 April 2020 Mrs H complained to the overseas jurisdiction responsible for the 
firm that gave the original transfer advice. She said the advice wasnt suitable and she hadnt 
been made aware of the early redemption penalty or the rest of the ongoing fees shed been 
charged. 
But the purchase of the investment trusts wasnt completed until 29 April and 6 May 2020 
respectively  and even then, the correct percentages werent acquired. So Mrs H 
complained to L&C Pensions about the delay and said she wanted to be put back into the 
position she would have been in without the delay. 
In May 2020 L&C Pensions accepted that a delay had occurred and said the asset manager 
would carry out a loss assessment calculation. Mrs H accepted this position although she 
noted the further delay in completing the calculation. 
She said she would like an explanation for how the error occurred and would then like to 
transfer the funds to another SIPP provider without any penalty.
In June 2020 L&C Pensions said it was still awaiting confirmation that the asset provider had 
completed the calculation but said it wasnt responsible for any delay as it had sent the 
instruction within its usual service levels and had requested the correct percentage of each 
asset to be purchased. 
   
In January 2021 Mrs H sent a letter to the asset manager explaining that the matter still 
hadnt been resolved from the previous year. But she didnt receive a response or any 
further contact from L&C Pensions. After an automated response from L&C Pensions about 
a subsequent chase in November 2021 Mrs H brought her complaint to us. Unfortunately, 
the complaint couldnt be traced so Mrs H reiterated her complaint in August 2022. She 
explained that:
L&C Pensions had failed to execute her request to invest 80% of her SIPP funds in a 
timely manner following her request of April 2020. It had also failed to purchase the 
full 80% of the two trusts.
It had failed to honour its promise to put her back into the position that she ought now 
to be in  and had failed to correspond with her at all since June 2020.
She hadnt received any annual statements relating to her SIPP and so hadnt been 
able to confirm the fees shed been charged or a breakdown of the value of the 
investments within the plan. 
She had been told to complain about the firm that advised her to transfer to a SIPP 
and about the charges levied to the Swiss regulator - and had done so - but hadnt 
heard anything further.
Subsequently in November 2018 around 80% of the SIPP was transferred to another 
provider and she is satisfied with that arrangement. But the remaining 20% remains 
trapped because she is disputing the 10% exit fee to transfer  which is why she 
decided to invest that money into the two investment trusts until the matter was 
resolved. 
She wants L&C Pensions to increase her SIPP by any loss suffered as a result of the 
delay and incorrect purchase. She also would like us to tell L&C Pensions to allow 
her to transfer the remaining funds  once corrected in value  to her new SIPP 
without an exit penalty. She would like the fees shes been charged to manage her 
SIPP be refunded as well. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said that:
Hed considered the matter of whether Mrs H had been financially disadvantaged by 
not being able to move her funds while she was waiting for compensation to be 
arranged  but thought she would have been able to do that at any time. So he didnt 
expect L&C Pensions to refund fees or compensate her for any loss of investment 
opportunity. 
He thought L&C Pensions should pay Mrs H £400 for the impact its actions had on 
her. 
But we didnt have any enforcement powers to punish L&C Pensions for their actions 
and to ensure others wouldnt be affected. That was the role of the regulator.
L&C Pensions should pay redress arising from a calculation which compared the 
current value of her bond with its notional value had the investment instruction been 
processed with an investment date of 7 April 2020.
Mrs H didnt dispute the outcome but believed the redress should be worked out differently. 
She said that, had the instructions been carried out correctly, she could have worked 
towards an exit strategy which allowed for potentially greater investment returns to cover 
the exit penalty that was imposed on the plan.
 
She said that she could have traded the investments at their peak value  they have now 
both fallen appreciably  so that both her and Mr Hs plans would now be worth around 
£290,000 more. She said this would have covered the exit penalty and allowed them to 
transfer the bond away from L&C Pensions.She thought that L&C Pensions should restore her residual cash to what it would have been 
at the time of the purchases  before subsequent fees were taken and eroded the cash 
balance - and then allow a penalty free in specie transfer to a new SIPP provider. 
L&C Pensions didnt respond, and the complaint was referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2022. Heres what I said:
The delay in purchasing the investment trusts
When we first approached L&C Pensions about this matter it told us that it thought the 
matter had been settled and that compensation had been paid  which I assume to be the 
reason it might give for its subsequent non-engagement. But I dont think the matter has 
been settled, because theres no evidence to show who was responsible for the delay and 
no explanation to accompany the entry of compensation on the transaction sheets. I can 
understand Mrs Hs concerns therefore that she doesnt know if the compensation is fair or 
whether the calculation has been carried out using the correct dates. Ill set out below what I 
think L&C Pensions needs to do to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the letter Mrs H sent to L&C Pensions on 2 April 2020 complaining about 
the ongoing SIPP fees, and which also contained our instruction forthwith to invest 40% of 
each of the net SIPP funds in the xxx Investment Trust and 40% in the xxxx Investment 
Trust. The remainder will remain in cash in these SIPPs until we have determined next steps 
in the complaints process. Ive also seen that the sales werent carried out until 29 April and 
6 May 2020 respectively  but not for the full 40% of each investment trust. I think thats too 
long and didnt represent the detail of the actual request.
Ive also been presented with the subsequent email trail between Mrs H and L&C Pensions 
setting out her request to be put back into the position she should have been had the 
instruction been carried out correctly. No final response was provided to her complaint 
although I have seen a copy of a later transaction sheet which showed entries for purchases 
of two investment trusts on 20 April 2020 (£68,500.67 each) followed by further purchases 
on 10 June 2020 (£48,558.48 and £47,912.98). These were then redeemed and purchased 
through the cash account on 18 June 2020 with an entry of £20,322.72 entitled complaint 
compensation. There is also a separate policy valuation page within the information which 
sets out the value of the cash and the investment trusts.
But those purchase dates are 18 June 2020, and the purchase price dates are 
19 October 2022 - so its unclear whether any compensation, if added, had been calculated 
from the 29 April 2020 dates (or earlier as set out by the investigator) as they should have 
been. 
Im satisfied that some element of compensation has been applied to the SIPP, but in the 
absence of any qualifying information I cant be sure what dates were used and how many 
additional units should have been purchased. And although L&C Pensions has said that it 
sent Mrs Hs instruction to the asset manager for action, it hasnt provided any evidence to 
demonstrate that it did that or given any reasons for the delays that took place. As the SIPP 
provider and administrator here, I think L&C Pensions was responsible for the purchases 
being competed in a timely manner. If it believes the asset manager to be responsible it 
should claim back any redress payable here from it.Our investigator believed that the investment should have been carried out by 7 April 2020  
namely four working days. I would normally use the number of working days that were taken 
when the instruction was actually worked upon until the purchase was made as a guide to 
what should have happened  but that information isnt available here. So Ive decided that 
the purchases should have been made within one calendar week of the instruction at the 
latest. I note that L&C Pensions says it had to carry out due diligence of the assets as it 
wasnt sure they could be held within the bond  so I think the time period Ive set out should 
allow for that extra research to be completed. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if the correct percentage of investment had been purchased without the 
delays that occurred.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs H's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested.
What must L&C Pensions do?
So, if any final decision remains along these lines, to compensate Mrs H fairly, L&C 
Pensions must:
Compare the current value of the bonds with the notional value of the bonds had the correct 
percentage been purchased by 9 April following the instruction of 2 April 2020. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
L&C Pensions should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, L&C Pensions should pay into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If L&C Pensions is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs H 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs H would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either L&C Pensions or Mrs H dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mrs H receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any 
final decision has been issued on the complaint.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C Pensions deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. L&C Pensions should give 
Mrs H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs H asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Any additional sum that Mrs H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
L&C Pensions totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The request for a refund of fees and a penalty free exit from the investment bond
In Mrs Hs letter of 2 April 2020 she spoke about the 1% yearly fee on the original face 
value of our SIPPs which you continue to levy. She also referenced the early redemption 
penalty which Ill turn to later. And looking at the transaction statement I can see quarterly 
fixed and management charges amounting to over £4,000, which Im sure would have 
caused her some concern  especially as they also being deducted during the process of 
answering her complaint which she of course says was never finalised. However as theres 
no regulatory guidance on excessive fees Ive taken a fair and reasonable view of what 
might be considered an appropriate level of fees, taking into account what might generally 
be seen in the industry. 
I have considered this matter carefully, but I dont think L&C Pensions should have to refund 
its fees in this case. I say that for two reasons. Firstly L&C Pensions is entitled to set its fees, 
within reason, at what it considers to be an appropriate level for the work it does in 
administering a SIPP. Then it was for the adviser who recommended the bonds in 2017 to 
make his recommendation based on a number of factors  one of which was fees and the 
effect of them on an investment. So I dont think its fair to say the fees were excessive. But I 
would have expected Mrs H to have been made aware of the level of fees that would be 
applied. 
I note that in his 2017 suitability report the adviser set out the operational costs. Its not 
entirely clear what these were but they were noted to be a year 1 set up fee of £180 plus an 
annual fee of £350 with an annual bond charge of 0.90% of the initial transfer. But of more 
relevance to Mrs Hs complaint is the illustration that was provided by the adviser dated 
25 April 2017 regarding the bond. This noted quarterly management charges of 0.225% with 
a quarterly fixed fee of £100. Ive applied these charges to the fees that were taken from the 
bond, and I think theyre broadly in line. So I think Mrs H was made aware of the fees, which 
is what I would have expected to see. 
As Ive said previously, although Mrs H might regard the fees as excessive I cant 
reasonably say that they are and as Mrs H was made aware of them before she took out the 
bond theres nothing to support the claim that L&C Pensions should have to refund them on 
that basis.
The non-negotiable early redemption penalty that Mrs H spoke about was noted in the 
illustration which said, if the policy is surrendered in the first 10 years, surrender penalties 
will be applicable. This was further explained in the application form which set out an early 
encashment charge as 10% of the total premium amount reducing by 1% p.a for 10 years. 
There are no early encashment charges after 10 years.So Mrs H was made aware of the charge at inception and while I can understand her 
frustration that it cant now be waived  even in light of L&C Pensions actions in not 
answering her complaint about the delayed and incorrect purchases  it wouldnt be fair for 
me to tell it to waive the charge and I dont think L&C Pensions have done anything wrong in 
continuing its implementation.  
The possible investment loss caused by not being able to trade the investments
In her response to our initial assessment Mrs H explained to us why she thought our redress 
recommendation didnt take into account the full effect of L&C Pensions actions on her 
retirement planning and her exit strategy for paying the early retirement charge on her 
bond and transferring to another provider, to rid herself of the ongoing difficult situation. She 
said that her strategy  when purchasing the funds in April 2020, was to invest to earn some 
investment growth and then sell the funds as close to their peak value as possible. She said 
this would then have been returned to the cash fund to cover the exit fees.
She said L&C Pensions actions have impacted her in two ways. Firstly, the delay in 
resolving the issue over the incorrect purchases meant that the investment trust passed their 
peak prices some time ago and have since fallen in value, so she says shes lost the 
opportunity to obtain the investment growth and cover the exit fees. She also says that the 
quarterly SIPP fees have continued to be applied which means the cash fund is now 
significantly depleted.
Mrs H has been consistent in setting out this strategy to us and I have no reason to dispute 
her intentions, so Ive thought very carefully about this matter. But I dont think it would be 
fair for me to award her compensation for this loss of investment opportunity for the 
following reasons. 
Firstly Mrs H says she intended to sell the assets at the peak of the price and Ive seen 
from her submissions that her and her husband are quite experienced, knowledgeable 
investors with regards to their own investments. But to disinvest at the very highest price of 
an asset isnt an easy thing to do. It wouldnt be clear when the market had in fact peaked 
until some falls had been experienced soon after  so I dont think Mrs H would have been 
able to sell at the levels she would have hoped, and that would make it almost impossible to 
make a judgement about when she would have sold the assets and how much investment 
return might have been made. So I think its impossible to quantify Mrs Hs request for 
compensation. 
But even if I am wrong in my assumption of what might have been achievable, I note the 
purchase of the investment trusts was made in April and June 2020 even though the 
percentage allocations werent correct. So, if Mrs H wanted to follow her exit strategy, I 
would have expected her to mitigate her position to demonstrate the intention of that strategy 
which I think ought to have led to her selling the purchases that were made in 
April and June 2020. 
But I havent seen anything to support the idea that she tried or even discussed doing that 
during the complaint process. I also note she said the funds peaked in November 2021 and 
January 2023 respectively so it would have been possible to make some of the returns she 
spoke about if shed gone ahead with selling the shares that she did hold at that time. 
Had Mrs H mitigated her position I may have been persuaded about her ultimate intention, 
but as she didnt its difficult for me to support her claim for lost investment opportunity based 
on what did happen.
 
CompensationAlthough I dont think theres enough evidence to support the idea of a refund of fees or to 
tell L&C Pensions to compensate Mrs H for the investment growth she lost out on from being 
unable to trade her funds in the way she wished to, I dont take lightly the impact this matter 
has had on her. Over a period of three years L&C Pensions has failed to give her a 
satisfactory answer to her complaint about its error as well as failing to respond to her 
regarding her other complaint points. I think his matter has disrupted Mrs Hs retirement 
planning and would have given her real concern about whether she had lost funds (or 
growth) from her SIPP permanently.
I think some of Mrs Hs issues here do stem from the initial transfer advice she was given in 
2017  which isnt L&C Pensions responsibility. But even so I think L&C Pensions actions  
as Ive set out above, would have had a significant impact on Mrs H and caused her a great 
deal of trouble and upset over an extended period of time. So I think L&C Pensions should 
pay compensation of £750. 
Responses to the provisional decision
L&C Pensions didnt respond, but Mrs H made a number of additional points in respect of 
the redress Id set out and the other complaint points. 
She made a number of comments and corrections to the information contained 
within the provisional decision
She said that when she complained about the delay in executing her instructions 
L&C Pensions made it clear that if she suffered any detriment because of market 
movements as a result, the provider would compensate her SIPP accordingly.
The lack of (timely) provision of annual plan statements from L&C Pensions was an 
ongoing problem which made it difficult to review and manage her pension 
accurately. She also understands that most major providers also offer full online 
access  which isnt something L&C Pensions has ever offered.
It would have been difficult for her to have moved the funds while the investigation 
was ongoing because of the lack of answers and basic services like statements. 
And also the lack of clarity around the compensation that was paid, the fees 
applicable to the plan, and the available transfer balance.
She cited a number of reasons why L&C Pensions were, in her view, unfit to 
continue as a regulated provider of financial services. 
If L&C Pensions had contacted her when the compensation payment was made to 
the account she would have requested full details of the calculation which would 
have highlighted that the purchase of further shares was required as set out in her 
original purchase instruction. This would have set her on the road to being put back 
into the position she ought then to be in. 
While she welcomed the redress methodology Id set out, she had some further 
considerations for me. 
She thought it was unfair that, after avoiding any discussion about the matter for 
three and a half years, L&C Pensions should be allowed to settle for a compensation 
figure that was some £30,000 lower than she thought it ought to have been on 
18 June 2020. She thought that the compensation figure L&C Pensions may have 
already paid into her account should be ignored and not taken into account when 
calculating the actual loss shed suffered here. And she also thought that to include 
the compensation as an offset in the calculation would further reduce her 
compensation by around £11,000 because of subsequent share price movements. 
I hadnt set out the interest rate that should be applied to any compensation from 
9 April 2020 to the date it eventually is paid. Her proposal was to use a bank base 
rate of 5.25% applied daily to the full amount payable.She presumed that, as the compensation L&C Pensions said it already paid was 
paid into her pension plan, there would be no need to make this payment directly to 
her after the deduction of tax. She thought any compensation due now should be 
able to be paid into the plan as it was before. She also suggested that both she and 
Mr H would be non-taxpayers initially in retirement, so she didnt think my assumption 
that they would be basic rate tax payers would automatically follow.
She wanted to set out the position with regards to the fees which applied to the plan. 
She explained that the ongoing charge was set at 1% of the original aggregate 
balances for 10 years after inception. But shed calculated the charges equated to 
1.1% of the aggregate initial investments and 5.8% of the remaining funds  after the 
2019 transfer  according to the latest valuations. She didnt think this was fair and 
wanted me to reconsider my provisional conclusions. 
She set out the background around the advice process from 2017. Her conclusion 
based on that sequence of events was that she disagreed with my assessment that 
the charge was explained to her  and was fair. She said that if both Mr H and herself 
paid the 1% fee over the full 10 years they would pay over £236,000 plus ancillary 
charges. And even though they transferred 80% of the funds in 2019 they have paid 
£82,000 in the ensuing three and a half years. She also though that L&C Pensions 
had mismanaged the administration of her plan, and this didnt justify such fees in 
any case. 
She hasnt been provided with a breakdown of the fees and commissions that were 
paid to her adviser  despite repeated requests. She explained that she had recently 
received correspondence setting out the fees payable on redemption  which didnt 
include an early redemption charge. But the correspondence also said that these 
fees do not include any fees that may be payable to your Financial Advisor or 
Investment Provider.  She said that, having not engaged an adviser since 2018, she 
assumed that no fees will be payable in that respect, but reserved the right to 
complain further under the consumer duty regulations if any are applied. She said 
that she is now going to request the transfer of her remaining funds  in cash - to her 
other SIPP provider. She wanted me to confirm this transfer wouldnt affect the 
payment of any compensation due. 
She didnt agree with my findings regarding the lost investment opportunity. She said 
that it would have been quite straightforward to sell the investment trusts  the 
purpose of which in the first place was to build up enough growth to cover the early 
encashment or exit charge. She thought she could have sold the trusts when the 
value met the level of the charge and therefore she wouldnt have needed to second 
guess the markets or try to sell at the peak value. She believed that as L&C 
Pensions didnt engage with her about the dispute and therefore she was unaware of 
the true position of the value of the trusts, it wasnt possible to try to sell the 
investments as that would have been shooting in the dark. So she thought the level 
of compensation due from that part of her claim ought to be the value of the early exit 
charge as set out in the quotation of December 2019  namely £180,105 plus 
interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mrs Hs further submissions and responses to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my findings. I know this outcome will 
disappoint Mrs H who thinks that the redress methodology Ive set out doesnt fully reflect 
the investment loss shes suffered, and that I havent made allowances for the growth she 
expected to crystallise from the investment trusts after she purchased them in April 2020  in 
an attempt to offset the early exit charge she would be charged to move the remainder of her funds to her other SIPP provider.
So Ill set out my reasons for reaching the same outcome, and answer Mrs Hs further points 
below.  
The delay in purchasing the investment trusts
Theres no dispute that Mrs Hs request of 2 April 2020 to invest 40% of each of the net 
SIPP funds in the xxx Investment Trust and 40% in the xxxx Investment Trust wasnt carried 
out when it should have been and when it was it didnt represent the amounts that had been 
requested. 
And Mrs H is right to say that L&C Pensions made it clear to her that if she suffered any 
financial loss because of adverse market movements resulting from the delay she would be 
compensated for that loss accordingly. L&C Pensions then told us that it thought the matter 
had been resolved and that compensation  which was calculated in June 2020  was 
subsequently added to the plan. 
I have seen evidence to show that some element of compensation - noted as complaint 
compensation was paid to Mrs Hs SIPP, but the details of that compensation werent 
disclosed. Therefore its not possible to determine if it does represent the loss that Mrs H 
suffered. In order to do that I would have expected L&C Pensions to provide a breakdown of 
any calculation that was carried out in order to show that any redress was based on the date 
the investment instruction should have been completed and that the amount of shares 
purchased was also correct. I would also have expected to see how L&C Pensions 
compensated Mrs H for any subsequent investment loss suffered. 
Of course, L&C Pensions argued that the delay was caused by the asset manager as it said 
it passed Mrs Hs instructions to the manager without delay. But L&C Pensions hasnt 
provided any evidence to substantiate that claim so I think, in the absence of such evidence, 
it was responsible for the instruction being completed in a timely manner as it was Mrs Hs 
SIPP provider. I said in my provisional decision that L&C Pensions ought to reclaim any 
redress payable from the asset manager if it believes thats where the fault lies.
So I think L&C Pensions needs to carry out a loss assessment as set below to compensate 
Mrs H for the error. I think the investment trusts ought to have been purchased within one 
calendar week of Mrs Hs written instruction as I think this allows for the due diligence L&C 
Pensions says it needed to carry out on the assets and whether they could be held within the 
SIPP. 
But Mrs H also had some concerns about the methodology I set out in my provisional 
decision. She said that if L&C Pensions had provided her with a breakdown of the redress 
calculation in 2020 she could have highlighted any errors and ensured that the purchase of 
further shares was carried out so that she didnt suffer further investment loss. 
She thought that my redress formula allowed L&C Pensions to settle on a compensation 
figure some £30,00 less than it should have been. Furthermore, she thought that if the 
compensation L&C Pensions had already paid was included in the calculation and offset 
against what I asked it to do - then she would be a further £11,000 worse off. 
She also questioned why I hadnt added interest to any investment loss  which she thought 
should be at the rate of 5.75%. Ive thought carefully about the points Mrs H has raised here but I think theyve been dealt 
with by my redress methodology. I say that because Im going to ask L&C Pensions to set 
out the position Mrs H ought to have been in, had the investments been purchased on 
9 April 2020 compared to the actual position she is now in. This means that any subsequent 
share movements are included in the calculation and theres no requirement for interest to 
be added because the calculation is brought up to the date of my decision. In addition, any 
compensation Mrs H has already received is now part of her SIPP value, so to offset that 
amount would mean that she would benefit beyond the loss shes suffered. So I think its fair 
to include the compensation already paid, in the calculation. 
So Im satisfied that what Im going to set out puts Mrs H back as close to the position shed 
now be in had the investments been purchased correctly  and in a timely manner. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if the correct percentage of investment had been purchased without the 
delays that occurred. 
What must L&C Pensions do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, L&C Pensions must:
Compare the current value of the investment trusts with their notional value had the correct 
percentage been purchased by 9 April following the instruction of 2 April 2020. If Mrs H has 
subsequently completed the transfer of her assets as shes told us she intends to do before 
the calculation is undertaken, then the date of any transfer should be used instead of the 
current value. 
If the notional value is greater than the current value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
L&C Pensions should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
L&C Pensions should pay into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If L&C Pensions is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs H wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs H would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If L&C Pensions deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. L&C Pensions should give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mrs H said that any redress should be paid into her plan as L&C Pensions had managed to 
do that previously with the compensation it paid. She said there was therefore no need to 
make the payment directly to her, after deducting tax, and that her plan should remain 
uncrystallised. Ive set out above that this should be the first course of action L&C Pensions 
should undertake, but I have also set out an alternative should payment into the plan no 
longer be possible. But if thats the case L&C Pensions need to provide evidence to show 
precisely why that situation may have changed. 
Additional interest
8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if not settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the complainant's acceptance). If Mrs H has transferred the assets before 
this calculation is completed then L&C Pensions should run its comparison to that date and 
then add interest at the same rate to the loss from that date until the date of the calculation. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if L&C 
Pensions totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The question of the plans fees and the early exit penalty for transferring within the first 10 
years.
Mrs H wanted me to reconsider my position regarding the fess that were deducted from her 
plan. She says they arent fair and would amount to £236,000 for her and Mr H over the full 
10 year term of the investment and they have already paid £82,000 in the three and a half 
years since 80% of the fund was transferred to another provider. She thought the fees were 
excessive and also that L&C Pensions administration of her plan was poor and didnt justify 
such a level fees. In addition, she said that my assertion that the fees were explained to her 
was wrong and that the sale of the plan was done in such a way that she wasnt made aware 
of them or their full effect.
But as I explained in my provisional decision the sale of the plan initially was carried out by 
an overseas adviser who isnt under our jurisdiction. It was his responsibility to explain the 
features of the plan he advised including all the applicable fees. So any complaint about the 
suitability of the sale and whether Mrs H had been made aware of how it worked  including 
its fees was his responsibility. I know Mrs H has already complained to the overseas 
regulator  without success so far  but Im simply not allowed to consider any complaint 
against him here. 
However, the adviser did provide a suitability report and an illustration which set out the fees 
involved. Ive seen a copy of these documents and as set out in my provisional decision Im 
satisfied that the fees were broadly in line with what has been deducted from the fund. So I 
think Mrs H was made aware of the charges even though she believes them to be 
excessive. L&C Pensions is entitled to charge whatever fees it thinks are appropriate for the 
work involved in managing the plan and for any early encashment charges it thinks are 
relevant. I think it needed to have made Mrs H aware of the charges  which I think has 
been the case here through the documents Ive mentioned.  But there arent any grounds for me to support the idea that the fees are excessive or 
unjustified. I havent been provided with any evidence to show that L&C Pensions hasnt 
fulfilled its administrative duties since 2017, although Ive taken into account the error that 
forms the basis of Mrs Hs complaint and her further point about the lack of statements and 
delay in providing a breakdown of the fees paid to her adviser. But I have considered those 
(in) actions and Ive taken its failure to provide that information and to satisfactorily answer 
her complaint into account through the amount of compensation Ive awarded for the impact 
these matters had on her. 
With regards to the early redemption penalty that applied during the first 10 years, Ive seen 
that the illustration explained that if the policy is surrendered in the first 10 years, surrender 
penalties will be applicable. While the application form confirmed that the penalty would be 
10% of the total premium amount reducing by 1% p.a for 10 years. So again, while I know 
Mrs H regards this as excessive, theres nothing to support that claim and I think she was 
made aware of the level of charges involved. It wouldnt therefore be fair for me to tell L&C 
Pensions to waive that fee. 
Mrs H has now told us that shes received an up to date redemption statement from L&C 
Pensions which doesnt include an early redemption charge but does also refer to fees which 
may be payable to her adviser, although she says she hasnt engaged an adviser since 
2018. She says shes begun the process of transferring her plan to her other provider and 
does not expect any of those fees to be included. Ive confirmed to Mrs H in the section 
above that any compensation due to her wont be affected by any subsequent transfer and 
Ive set out how L&C Pensions should deal with this. But it wouldnt be fair for me to tell L&C 
Pensions to waive any fees that it hasnt charged, although this doesnt exclude Mrs Hs right 
to make a further complaint if she believes the transfer isnt carried out on the terms that she 
thinks have been confirmed to her. 
The loss of investment opportunity and possible growth to cover the exit fee
Mrs H didnt agree with my findings regarding the lost investment opportunity. She explained 
that her strategy regarding the investment trusts was quite simply to purchase these 
investments and, at the time when their growth had covered the outstanding exit charge, she 
could transfer her assets to the other provider having offset the early redemption penalty. So 
she didnt think she needed to second guess the markets and try to sell at peak value. 
She also refuted my claim that she could have mitigated her loss by selling the investment 
trusts that had been purchased  even if the amounts werent completely correct. She said 
the lack of answers from L&C Pensions about the correction of its error and the lack of 
statements setting out her position (L&C Pensions doesnt offer an online facility) meant she 
would have been shooting in the dark if she had tried to mitigate her position. Mrs H 
wanted redress of around £180,000  to cover the early redemption charge  as 
compensation for this part of her complaint.
I have some sympathy for Mrs Hs position here. I do understand the strategy that shes set 
out of using the trusts growth to cover the exit charge in place at that time. And Im 
persuaded that she wouldnt have needed to play the markets when selling  which its 
agreed would have been difficult to do  as long as the growth on the trust covered the 
charge at some point. But to uphold this part of her complaint would mean making my 
decision on the basis of hindsight which I dont think is fair or reasonable for me to do. As I 
said in my provisional decision I would expect some degree of mitigation here to 
demonstrate Mrs Hs intended strategy. Although the purchase of the investments was both delayed and incorrect (in terms of 
number of units) Mrs H did acquire some the investments she wanted. I think she could have 
made some of the returns she required if shed gone ahead with the sale of the shares that 
she did hold  especially as she said they peaked in value in November 2021 and 
January 2023 respectively. I know Mrs H says she couldnt pursue the strategy while the 
dispute was ongoing, and she didnt have sight of plan statements to show her the position 
of the plan. But I think she could have shown what her investment strategy was if shed 
shown intention of that strategy  namely selling to cover some of the exit charge - with the 
shares that she did hold.
And, although she says, quite correctly, that L&C Pensions didnt fully engage with her 
during the complaint process and there was no communication after June 2020, I havent 
seen any evidence that she referred to her strategy or even complained that L&C Pensions 
was preventing her from achieving her goal during the correspondence she did have with it. 
Indeed, in her email from 1 June 2020 Mrs H set out her expectations from the complaint 
resolution, which was to receive a cash refund for the difference in value from the shares 
which she then wanted to transfer into her other SIPP  without charge. She also wanted 
L&C Pensions to waive the exit charge on the residual funds. So I cant reasonably say 
theres sufficient evidence to support the idea that Mrs H suffered an investment loss  
equivalent to the value of the exit charge  based on what Ive seen.
I havent seen enough evidence that Mrs H adopted her investment strategy with even the 
portion of shares that she could have used to cover some of the exit charge or that she 
made L&C Pensions aware of a strategy that it was preventing her from adopting. Its difficult 
for me to conclude that Mrs H would have followed the particular plan shes told us about if 
theres no contemporaneous evidence to support her intention to do so. So I cant safely 
conclude that L&C Pensions was responsible for that investment loss and that it should 
compensate her accordingly. 
Putting things right
Ive set out above what L&C Pensions needs to do to compensate Mrs H for the delayed and 
incorrect share purchases. But I dont think it needs to do anything more regarding the lost 
investment opportunity or the fees that it applied to the plan. But, I have also considered the 
impact that L&C Pensions actions have had on Mrs H over a period of three years. L&C 
Pensions failed to give Mrs H a satisfactory answer to her complaint about its error as well 
as failing to respond to her regarding her other complaint points. 
It also hasnt provided the information she requested - including the plan statements that she 
wanted in order to understand the position and value of the funds. Ive thought carefully 
about how this impacted Mrs Hs retirement planning and the concern she would have had 
about the loss of funds and growth from her SIPP.
So I think L&C Pensions should pay Mrs H £750 for the significant distress and 
inconvenience caused by these matters
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against London & Colonial Services Limited trading as L&C 
Pensions. My decision is that London & Colonial Services Limited trading as L&C Pensions 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
London & Colonial Services Limited trading as L&C Pensions should provide details of its 
calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2024.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman