DRN-3578189
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin Money) caused it to miss out on the promised incentive payment for 
switching its bank account from NatWest. 
N is represented in bringing this complaint by one of its directors, Mr T. 
What happened
NatWest invited N to apply to move its banking elsewhere as part of a scheme called the 
Incentivised Switching Scheme. In February 2021, N applied to switch to Virgin Money.
On 20 April 2021, Virgin Money sent N a form for completion. It was a form for a sole trader, 
so Mr T queried this. The next day, the bank sent N the correct switching forms. 
On 1 May 2021, Virgin Money opened a new bank account for N with a zero balance. 
Mr T says he tried to contact Virgin Money twice in May and again on 1 June 2021, but they 
werent taking calls and no-one rang him back. 
On 8 June, Virgin Money emailed Mr T again saying they still required the forms to complete 
the switch. 
On 16 June, Mr T sent an email to Virgin Moneys switching team and was advised that his 
application had been closed. He asked for someone to ring him and when no-one did, he 
made a formal complaint. 
On 23 June, Mr T had a lengthy phone call with the bank, after which they also sent new 
switching forms. Mr T says he couldnt access these.  
Virgin Money didnt uphold Ns complaint, although they apologised for not calling him back. 
Mr T asked for our service to look into what had happened. One of our investigators did so. 
He took the view that Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong in not proceeding with the 
swap, but they should pay £100 compensation for their poor communication. Mr T asked for 
an ombudsman to look at the matter again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr T, so Id like to explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Virgin Money is to blame for the failure to complete the 
switch in time to get the incentive payment. I havent been persuaded that this was due to an 
error on Virgin Moneys part. 
Theres no dispute that Virgin Money initially sent Mr T the wrong forms for the switch. But 
once hed brought this to their attention, they sent him the correct forms the next day, which 
was 21 April. So I dont think this caused any material delay. 
The banks first email began, in bold red text, We need more information from you to input 
the switch. The second email, which attached the correct forms, was short and said, 
amongst a few other sentences Please see the attached correct switching forms and 
complete and return with a recent bank statementwe await your response. I think these 
two emails made it clear that there was further action required from Mr T and that the bank 
couldnt do anything more until this occurred. 
The bank has said that it then sent a follow-up text message on 2 May 2021 to the number 
we hold on file for Mr T. The bank hasnt been able to show us a copy of it, but its records 
say it said: Were getting in touch because the RBS/NatWest Incentivised Switching 
Scheme is ending soon. You can contact is atto progress your application. Your 
application will be closed if we dont hear from you in the next seven days. This means youll 
no longer be eligible for the switching scheme. Im unclear whether Mr T agrees he received 
this or not, but based on what the bank has shown me from their internal records, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that it was sent. 
The bank then says that, in the absence of the forms, it withdrew Ns application on 
15 May 2021. However, I can also see that it sent Mr T out a further set of forms on 8 June, 
presumably in response to one of his phone calls. This set was accompanied by a one line 
email that said We still require the above documents to be completed and returned in order 
to input your switch. 
Mr Ts argument is that he was confused by the fact that an account was opened on 1 May 
with a nil balance. He was also sent cards and PINs. He believes this was an error, but I 
dont think it was. Its usual for accounts to be opened this way in readiness for a switch to 
take place, so that theres somewhere ready to receive the funds. In any case, I dont think 
the banks email and text communication could have left him in any doubt that he still 
needed to fill in the forms. 
Ive listened to the entirety of Mr Ts lengthy call with Virgin Money on 23 June 2021. I notice 
that during this call, Mr T said that he had thought hed sent the forms back, but he 
acknowledged he couldnt see that he had in fact done so. So I think this shows that he 
accepted that he hadnt returned the forms. 
This call ended with Virgin Money promising to send Mr T more forms to get the switch 
started again. I think this was misleading, as I think it was almost certainly already too late to 
complete the switch by 30 June and earn the incentive. I think this was probably because the 
Virgin Money employee didnt realise it was a time-critical incentivised switch. 
In summary, I dont think theres any doubt that Virgin Money could have provided better 
service here. But I consider the banks communications regarding the required forms were 
clear. And even if Mr T was unsure if the forms were required, I think he ought reasonably to 
have completed them just in case. I also think the call on 23 June was already too late. So I 
dont think the bank was to blame for Ns failure to get the incentive payment. 
Putting things right
I agree that Virgin Moneys customer service was at times poor. They failed to return calls 
and sent an email on 17 June that could have been far more helpful than it was. In the call of 
23 June, they also left Mr T thinking he still had time to complete the switch if he returned the 
forms on 25 June, which I dont believe was the case. I consider it fair that Virgin Money should pay compensation for these failings. I agree with 
our investigator that £100 is the appropriate amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Ns complaint in part. I direct Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay N £100 in compensation for its poor customer 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman