DRN-2869291
The complaint
 Mr O is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 17 October 2020, Mr O was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. He paid a £1,500 deposit, part-exchanged his existing car for £3,500, and 
the agreement was for £5,413.99 over 36 months; with monthly repayments of £184.95. At 
the time, the car was over three and a half years old and had done 12,707 miles.
Mr O said he started having problems with the car about six to seven weeks after taking 
possession of it  there was a fault with the radio, and it kept losing sound. He reported this 
to the supplying dealership on 3 December 2020 but, shortly afterwards, the radio started 
working again. So he let the dealership know.
However, the radio continued to only work intermittently, and the dealership examined the 
car on 9 March 2021. They couldnt find a fault with the radio, but they did a factory reset 
which they thought would fix any issues. The dealership also repaired a sticking door handle 
and a broken cup holder.
But the radio fault continued. Mr O had complained to MotoNovo, asking to reject the car. 
MotoNovo arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. This inspection took 
place on 22 March 2021, and the engineer found an intermittent fault, most probably caused 
by a faulty connection or a dry soldered joint. But the engineer said that electrical faults 
could happen suddenly, so he thought it was unlikely that the fault was present when the car 
was supplied to Mr O. So MotoNovo said Mr O couldnt reject the car.
Mr O wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he brought this matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said she was satisfied there was an intermittent fault with the car. But Mr O 
had raised the issue within a few weeks of taking possession of the car, and there was no 
evidence that this was a sudden fault. So she thought it was likely the fault was likely present 
when the car was supplied to Mr O. And she thought this made the car of an unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied.
The investigator said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) allowed one chance at 
repair. And by attempting a factory reset (and by repairing the door handle and cup holder) 
this attempt had already taken place. And the fault wasnt fixed. So she said it was 
reasonable that Mr O should now be allowed to reject the car at no further cost.
She said that, because Mr O had had use of the car, it was only fair that he paid for this. But 
she thought MotoNovo should refund him 5% of the premiums he paid because of the loss of 
enjoyment caused by the faulty radio. She also said that MotoNovo should refund the 
deposit and part-exchange value Mr O paid. And that they should pay interest on the refund.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said the independent engineer is 
unbiased, and theres no evidence to support the investigators view that the fault was 
present at the point of supply. And they said that Mr O hadnt provided any evidence there 
was a fault with the radio before the independent engineer inspected the car in March 2021.
MotoNovo have also said that Mr O has been asking to reject the car from when he raised 
the complaint with them, and hes brought it up on every conversation. Because of this they 
wonder if theres financial difficulty or buyers remorse and [Mr Os] looking for a way to get 
out of the car.
The investigator said that MotoNovos comments didnt alter her view. So MotoNovo said 
they felt itd be reasonable for the dealership to attempt a further repair on the car, instead of 
allowing Mr O to reject it. This is because the fault wasnt presenting itself when the 
dealership carried out minor repairs to the handle and cup holder.
Because MotoNovo didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MotoNovo are responsible.  Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given 
the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr O took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr O was having intermittent problems with 
the radio from shortly after the car was supplied. He complained to the dealership about this 
in December 2020, raised this with MotoNovo shortly afterwards, and the dealership 
inspected the car for a fault in March 2021. 
While I appreciate there was a reasonable time period between first reporting the fault and 
having the car inspected; I also have to consider that this was an intermittent fault which 
didnt affect the day to day operation of the car  it was still possible to use the car with the 
radio fault, it was just annoying for Mr O that the radio wouldnt always work. So I dont think 
this time gap means the fault wasnt evident from shortly after the car was supplied.Ive seen the independent engineers report dated 22 March 2021. This also confirms Mr O 
first reported the fault on 3 December 2020. The engineer said the car was taken on a road 
test with the audio system set to radio, as the vehicle moved off there was no issues with the 
system but after several minutes, the system lost sound, with no control when turning the 
volume control. Within a few seconds and with the volume set to its maximum, the sound 
suddenly returned. Im satisfied what the engineer is describing is an intermittent fault.
The engineer concluded the vehicle does have an issue with the multimedia unit which 
would benefit from rectification  which is likely to be the direct result of a dry soldered joint 
or a faulty connection. But the engineer also said, an electrical fault such as this can be 
sudden and without warning and therefore would not affect the vehicle having been fit for 
purpose at the point of purchase.
I think it would be beneficial to explain what a dry soldered joint, also known as a dry joint, is. 
A dry joint is where, usually due to insufficient heat being applied in the soldering process; 
the solder hasnt taken properly. So theres not a proper connection. Dry joints can work for 
some time before failing. And they tend to cause intermittent faults as, sometimes theres a 
sufficient connection, and other times theres not.
While I agree with the independent engineer that electrical faults can happen at any time, the 
engineer said this fault was likely caused by a dry joint or faulty connection. And, as 
explained above, these are likely a result of a failure in the manufacturing process. So, given 
the engineers professional opinion of the likely cause of the fault; Im satisfied that it was 
more likely than not that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Where there is a fault, the CRA allows one chance at repair. And, by attempting a factory 
reset on 9 March 2021, the dealership has had this chance. They were aware this was an 
intermittent fault, so any repair attempt shouldve taken this into consideration. And the 
repair failed  the intermittent fault wasnt fixed. 
As this repair attempt was done in the full knowledge of the intermittent nature of the fault, I 
dont agree with MotoNovo that the dealership should be given another attempt to repair. 
And I havent seen anything that shows me that Mr O was suffering from financial difficulties, 
or had buyers remorse, and wanted to hand back the car for other reasons. So, under the 
CRA, Im satisfied that Mr O should now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Mr O had use of the car, so I think its only fair that he pays for this usage. But the fault with 
the radio limited his enjoyment of the car and, from the videos hes supplied of when the 
radio didnt work, I can see that this was a frustrating experience. So I agree that MotoNovo 
should refund a portion of the payments made to compensate Mr O for this.
So, MotoNovo should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
remove all adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Os credit file.
refund the £1,500 deposit and £3,500 part-exchange value Mr O paid.
refund 5% of the payments Mr O made to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment 
of the car.
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on the above, to be calculated from when Mr O made 
the payments to the date of the refund.* HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to deduct tax from the interest amount 
MotoNovo should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted If he asks 
for one. Mr O can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman