DRN-3769769
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Paysafe Financial Services Limited (otherwise known as Neteller), closed 
his account without notice and has been holding the funds contained within it ever since. 
What happened
Paysafe closed Mr Ps account on 28 June 2021 without notice, deducting an administration 
fee from the balance. It notified Mr P of the closure via email. 
Mr P emailed back asking for his account to be reinstated and for him to have access to the 
money contained within it. Paysafe responded explaining that his account would remain 
closed, and it would continue to hold the funds. It went onto say this decision was final and 
referred him to the terms of use policy for more information. It reiterated this stance in its 
final response to Mr P. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy with Paysafes actions. 
Hes explained his account was linked to his business partners and he was expecting 
payments from them. He said that Paysafe not giving him any notice of its decision to close 
the account meant he couldnt notify them in time. Being without the money in the account 
led to financial hardship, especially during the covid-19 pandemic and caused a strain 
emotionally too. 
Paysafe said that it closed the account and is withholding the funds in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Paysafe had followed the 
terms and conditions of the account when closing it including doing so without notice. She 
was also satisfied Paysafe has been acting in line with its policies in holding onto the funds 
in Mr Ps account at the time of closure. She therefore didnt recommend that Paysafe return 
this to Mr P or refund the administration fee it had charged. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can understand why Mr P is so upset with the account closure and the fact Paysafe 
is withholding the money in the account. I appreciate he feels he has been treated unfairly 
and this has had a negative impact on him. Id like to assure him I have thoroughly looked 
into why Paysafe has taken these actions to check it did this correctly and fairly. And while I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Im satisfied it did.
Paysafe has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being closed. If Paysafe didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Taking this into account and reviewing the information Paysafe has provided, Im satisfied it 
was entitled to close Mr Ps account and do so without notice. It did this in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations and the account terms and conditions. And while I know this has 
caused Mr P inconvenience, Paysafe has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, 
just as Mr P can choose who to bank with. 
Paysafe isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it closed an account. This
information is often commercially sensitive. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so or disclose the reasons myself. 
I know Mr Ps main concern is the fact Paysafe wont release the money in the account to 
him. I appreciate being without this money has caused him hardship. But considering all the 
information Ive seen, Im not able to say Paysafe has acted incorrectly in withholding the 
money or should now release this to Mr P. It follows that I wont be making any 
recommendations around the fact Paysafe has debited an administration fee from this 
money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Paysafe Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman