DRN-2922938
The complaint
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T have a home insurance policy with LV which covers contents and 
buildings (amongst other things) for a property they own and let out.
They made a claim after the roof of the property suddenly and unexpectedly collapsed. LV 
declined the claim on the basis that there was no evidence the damage was due to an 
insured event or peril.
LV have sent a payment to Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T to cover the cost they incurred in having a 
surveyors inspection carried out and the building made safe. 
LV said this was because although they were right to decline the claim, they might 
nonetheless have sent a Loss Adjuster to carry out an inspection and made the brickwork at 
the top of the building safe as a matter of urgency.
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T complained to LV about their decision to decline the claim. LV told 
them they were happy theyd handled the claim correctly. So, Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T brought 
their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think LV had done anything wrong.
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They 
still think they received poor service and no support or advice, there were unnecessary 
delays, LV havent investigated the cause the roof collapse fully, and the policy was mis-sold 
originally. 
They want LV to pay the full cost of the repairs, including scaffolding costs, to pay for their 
loss of rent during the period the property was uninhabitable and to compensate them for the 
poor service and delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts policy terms and conditions document says that LV will cover 
damage to the building which is caused by certain events  sometimes called insured 
perils.
These include fire, water or oil leaks, theft, storm or flood, subsidence of heave, vandalism, 
impact and accidental damage to certain specified parts of the building (fixed glass, sanitary 
ware, solar panels and/or ceramic hobs).
The document also says there is optional full accidental damage cover, but Mr T, Mr T and 
Mrs T dont have this. LV have said they wouldnt offer that cover for tenanted properties. 
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T appointed their own surveyor after speaking initially to LV about the 
claim. LV later appointed their own loss adjuster.
Neither the surveyor nor the loss adjuster can find any evidence to suggest that the collapse 
of the roof was due to any of the listed insured events or perils.
The surveyor says he cant definitively say what caused the roof to collapse due to debris 
still at the site when he attended. But he says what happened when the roof collapsed:
 suggests there was a structural element failure in the supporting roof structure 
within the loft space.
He goes on to say this is likely to be due to the failure of one of the roofs purlins, although 
he says he cant be sure whether this was a sudden failure or due to long term creep. 
The loss adjuster agrees. According to him, there is nothing to suggest that any of the listed 
insured perils caused the roof to collapse.
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T have suggested the damage may have been caused by building work 
that was carried out on the neighbouring houses roof. And the loss adjuster mentioned to 
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T that if that were the case, the damage might have been covered by the 
full accidental damage option, if theyd had it.
They didnt have it, however. And Im satisfied that would have been clear to Mr T, Mr T and 
Mrs T when they bought the policy and from the schedules sent to them after the original 
purchase and at renewal. These all clearly show that the optional cover is not included.
In any case, there is no evidence to suggest the roof collapsed due to the work on the 
neighbouring roof. Indeed, the surveyor appointed by Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T said, on that 
point, that there was:
 no indication of any intrusions or damage arising from the construction of (the 
neighbours) loft conversion, nor would this be a common concern. 
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T have argued that the policy was mis-sold because if they had known 
that this kind of damage wasnt covered by the policy without the optional cover, they would 
have taken the optional cover. And if it wasnt covered by that, theyd have bought their 
insurance elsewhere.
I dont think the damage would have been covered by the full accidental damage option. 
And I dont think Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T could have easily bought insurance elsewhere that 
would have covered them for that damage. Even if they could have obtained such a policy, it 
would have been extremely expensive.
Almost all buildings insurance policies will list insured perils. And if the damage being 
claimed for isnt caused by one of those perils, they will not pay out. If they include 
accidental damage clauses, they will almost invariably define accidental damage in the 
same way as LV (or in a very similar way). That is, as damage:
caused suddenly by external means which is not expected and not deliberate.Theres no evidence at all here that the damage to Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts roof was caused 
in that way.
In other words, the terms set out in Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts policy arent unusual. Theyre not 
onerous or inherently unfair. And Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T would have been aware of the terms 
 or should have been  before they bought the policy.
The policy terms are also very clear  at several points - that LV will not pay for damage 
which:
 happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear
It would appear that is the most likely cause of the roofs collapse. The report provided by 
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts surveyor supports that explanation. And, as I say, there is no 
evidence at all to suggest that the damage was caused by an insured event or peril.
Again, LVs terms are not unusual. Insurance policies are generally there to guard against 
unforeseen accidents and unfortunate events that might cause damage to a building which 
is, beforehand, sound, well-maintained and undamaged. They arent there to replace or 
repair buildings  or parts of them  which have deteriorated, worn out or aged beyond their 
useful life.
Its not for me to say what caused the roof to collapse. My decision is about whether LV 
acted reasonably and fairly in handling Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts claim and in choosing to 
decline it.
Given the expert evidence LV have from their own loss adjuster and from the independent 
surveyor appointed by Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T, I cant conclude that their decision to decline 
the claim is in any way unfair or unreasonable.
If any further evidence comes to light, Im sure LV will look at the claim again in line with the 
Terms and Conditions of the policy.
I am aware that LV have sent a payment to Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T to cover the cost of the 
surveyors report and some work to make the building safe in the immediate aftermath of the 
accident.
They werent under any obligation to do this, in my view. Theyve made a gesture of good 
will  and explained why theyve done that to Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T. 
Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T have my sympathy over what happened to their property. This 
unexpected event must have come as a shock and has, of course, put them to considerable 
expense and inconvenience. But I cant hold LV responsible for any of that. And Im satisfied 
the existing evidence justifies LVs decision to decline the claim.
I can also see from the documents we have on file that LV made their decision in a timely 
manner  and that there were no significant delays in their communications with Mr T, Mr T 
and Mrs T. Those communications were clear and explained the process and the decision 
on the claim to Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T in full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr T, Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mr T and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman