DRN-2765339
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Insurance Factory Ltd trading as PDSA Petsurance increased the 
premium significantly on his pet insurance for his dog.
What happened
Mr S took out a life time pet insurance with Insurance Factory for his dog in 2010. The policy 
is administered by Insurance but underwritten by another entity. 
In the 2020 renewal Mr S saw his premium increasing from £660.12 per year to £1,287.24. 
He had made a claim in the previous policy year and he did expect an increase, but he 
thought this increase was outrageously high.
So, he complained to Insurance Factory, who acknowledged the increase would have come 
as a shock, so it paid him £313.00 in compensation which was half the increase in the 
premium.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought 
the compensation paid was reasonable and she didnt think Insurance Factory needed to do 
anything more.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so his case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First however if Mr S wants to complaint about the actual price of his policy, he needs to 
make a complaint to the underwriter of the policy. Insurance Factory merely administer the 
policy for the underwriter and dont set the price of the premium. I also note Mr S has now 
cancelled his policy.
So, the issue here is the lack of information given to Mr S when he first took out the life time 
policy and indeed the lack of information as Mr S continued to renew it each year. As the 
investigator explained this service cant tell any insurer what amount of premium to charge 
its customers, as were not the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. 
The premium for life time pet policies will generally increase as the pet insured gets older 
and indeed as more claims are then made or more likely to be made. As life time policies are 
intended to cover any chronic or recurring illness the pet may suffer from like diabetes or 
arthritis to name but two. So, the risk of the insurer having to pay a claim when the dog is 
aged say two years old is a lot different than when the dog is aged 10 years old. Therefore, 
from a risk assessment point of view its rational premiums might increase. Insurance 
Factory said the underwriter told it the premiums rose in Mr S case due to the age of his dog 
and claim made.
Like the investigator said, we think that the fact premiums might rise substantially as the 
policy continues to be renewed should have been fully explained at the beginning when Mr S 
was buying the policy and it wasnt. Then he could have made a better properly informed 
decision about whether such a policy would be suitable for his needs. 
Its clearly evident from what Mr S has told us, that he was exceptionally upset with what he 
thought was an excessive premium rise. So, it most certainly caused some distress and 
upset. Therefore. I consider it was right Insurance paid Mr S some compensation. I consider 
the amount paid of £313.00 to be about right and in line with what I would have awarded had 
it not done so. 
However. as it doesnt set the premium amount, given thats what the underwriter does, I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
So, whilst I do understand and appreciate Mr S will be disappoint, for these reasons, its my 
final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman