DRN-4296921
The complaint
Dr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2022, Dr H came across an article on social media about an investment opportunity 
with a company Ill refer to as G, which was endorsed by a well-known celebrity. She 
followed the link to Gs website which claimed to offer training on trading in financial markets 
and featured videos educating people about investing. 
Dr H researched G and discovered it was registered on Companies House. She also found 
reviews on Trustpilot and other websites, which were mostly positive, and she thought the 
minimum investment of £250 was relatively risk free. 
Dr H left her contact details and was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker who 
explained he would teach her how to trade so that she would eventually be able to do it 
herself. He told her to send over two forms of ID and required her to sign contracts 
electronically using software protected by individual passkeys. He also asked her to 
screenshare her phone using AnyDesk so he could show her how to invest. 
He told Dr H to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as C 
so she could make deposits and then transfer funds to G. He showed her the live trading 
screen and told her she could withdraw her profit after two weeks, leaving the initial 
investment in the account to reinvest. Between 6 June 2022 and 12 December 2022, she 
transferred seven payments to C totalling £95,000 from her HSBC account.
Dr H attempted to make the first payment on 3 June 2022, but the payment was flagged for 
checks and HSBC was unable to contact her, so the payment was reversed. She tried again 
on 6 June 2022 when a warning about fraud and scams was displayed, and she was asked 
to contact HSBC. During the call she told the call handler that she was investing in 
cryptocurrency and that shed made an initial investment of £250. She mentioned the 
celebrity endorsement, but this wasnt picked up on by the call handler, so she was given a 
general warning about fraud and scam awareness and the payment was released. 
In December 2022, Dr H told the broker she wanted to withdraw her profits. The broker set 
up a new wallet in her name and said she would need to pay capital gains tax of £25,000. 
On 12 December 2022, she transferred £25,000, before being told shed need to pay the 
regulatory body 9.5% of her profits which was around £47.000, at which point she realised 
shed been scammed, and that G was a cloned of a genuine company with the same name.
Dr H complained to HSBC, arguing that it had failed to intervene when she made the 
payments, despite the amounts being considerable in comparison to her normal spending 
habits. HSBC refused to refund any of the money shed lost because the funds were sent to 
a digital wallet in her own name. 
It said the first payment on 6 June 2022 was selected for further checks and Dr H said shed 
researched the investment, shed opened the digital wallet herself and had full access to it, 
G was a reputable provider, and no one had coached her how to answer any of its 
questions. She also she understood the warnings, she was happy to continue with the 
payment and shed checked the investment was genuine. 
It accepted it failed to suspend her online banking facility when she reported the scam, so it 
apologised and offered £100 for the error. It also said she didnt tell it shed disclosed her 
card details to the broker, so there was no reason to cancel her debit card. 
Dr H complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. She explained she 
had invested before but she wasnt an experienced investor, and she thought the investment 
was genuine as she had carried out her own research and was satisfied G was legitimate. 
She argued HSBC had failed to ask probing questions and if she had any inclination that this 
was a scam she wouldnt have gone through with the payments. She doesnt accept HSBC 
did enough to protect her and she believes it had multiple opportunities to prevent the scam.
Her representative said there was no mention of scams in the pop-up message Dr H 
received. They said HSBC should have intervened as she made seven payments to a new 
payee linked to cryptocurrency within the space of six months. They also said she rarely 
made payments over £500, so the value of the payments should have been a red flag and 
HSBC should have intervened when she made the first payment. They argued that if it had 
asked relevant questions, it would have been apparent that Dr H was the victim of an 
investment scam, and it would have been able to prevent her loss.
The representative said that when Dr H called the bank on 6 June 2022, she wasnt given 
any scam advice and or told to do more research, which made her believe the opportunity 
was legitimate. They argued HSBC should have asked Dr H what the payments were for and 
the basic surrounding context including why she was making the payment, who she was 
trading with, whether shed researched the company and whether shed been promised 
unrealistic returns and, had it done so it would have been apparent she was falling victim to 
an investment scam so it should have told her to do further checks, including processing a 
higher withdrawal. 
HSBC further commented that a warning about potential scams would have been displayed 
when Dr H set up a new payee and an investments warning was displayed on 6 June 2022, 
giving information about scams. It also spoke to Dr H, and she confirmed shed carried out 
checks and was confident with who she was dealing with. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She explained Dr H had conducted 
due diligence and as G was a clone of a legitimate company, she didnt find anything 
concerning. During the call she had with HSBC, she disclosed that that shed come across 
the opportunity via a celebrity endorsement, which is a common feature of a scam, and she 
was satisfied that if HSBC had questioned her about this endorsement, Dr H would likely 
have disclosed that she found the investment via social media and had downloaded Any 
Desk at the request of the broker. 
She thought this information would have been enough for HSBC to identify that the 
investment was a scam, and it should then have provided an appropriate warning, which she 
was satisfied Dr H would have acted on.HSBC has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has said that Dr H 
made further payments even though she said she was making a one off payment, she was 
given a written warning when she set up the new payee and the first payment was reversed. 
It has also said she didnt mention the celebrity endorsement.
It has further commented that Dr H paid a genuine company, and the payments did arrive in 
the cryptocurrency wallet where she could see the funds and had access to them. She then 
moved the funds out to another account following instructions that were given to her by a 
third party, after having been asked if anyone had told her to move the money or if she was 
promised her high returns.
HSBC has also said that during the call on 6 June 2022, Dr H said she wasnt offered high 
returns, which was misleading, and she also said she had opened the cryptocurrency 
account herself, she had access to it, and she had checked the bank details with the 
provider. It said she was told there were warnings on the FCA website about cryptocurrency 
investments and it could hold the payment so she could carry out further research and check 
the details on the FCA website before proceeding, which she declined. She was also given 
detailed fraud/scam awareness and warned that if the payment wasnt received, it may not 
be able to recover the funds.
It has also argued that it doesnt believe further challenges or probing questions about the 
celebrity endorsement would have swayed Dr Hs decision to continue with the payments 
and that she had made some large payments out of her account, so sending high value 
payments to external accounts wasnt unusual.
Finally, it has said Dr H was negligent because she only looked at reviews which could have 
been fake, and she declined to check FCA website or carry out further checks. And the 
broker said he was based in Switzerland, which should have raised concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Dr H says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances, but the CRM code doesnt apply in this case because 
Dr H paid an account in her own name.
Im satisfied Dr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her 
bank account, Dr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute this was a scam, but although Dr H didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
PreventionIve thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC 
ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Dr H when 
she tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting her from financial harm due to fraud. 
A warning message was displayed when Dr H made the first payment, which was reversed 
because HSBC was unable to contact her. Im satisfied this was fair and that HSBC acted 
appropriately in declining the payment in the absence of further verification.
On 6 June 2022, Dr H was asked to contact the HSBC. Ive listened to the call, and Im 
satisfied that Dr H answered the questions honestly. HSBC has said that Dr H mislead it by 
stating that she was making a one off payment, but I dont consider this was dishonest as 
this might have been her intention at the time of the payment.
Im also satisfied that she told the call handler about the celebrity endorsement and that they 
failed to explore this further. I agree with our investigator that the failure to ask further 
questions about the celebrity endorsement represented a missed opportunity to detect the 
scam because it was a major red flag which ought reasonably to have led to further 
questions about the investment, including how shed learned about the investment 
opportunity, whether shed been told to download remote access software to her device and 
whether shed been advised to make an onwards payment from the cryptocurrency 
exchange.
Because G was a clone of a genuine investment company, all of Dr Hs due diligence had 
led her to the reasonable conclusion that the investment was genuine, so it was for HSBC to 
take notice of what it was told and to ask more probing questions, which would have 
uncovered the scam. Theres no evidence that Dr H was coached to lie and based on her 
answers to the questions she was asked, Im satisfied shed have answered truthfully, and 
the call handler would have been able to identify that she was being scammed. 
 
I would expect the call handler to have provided a tailored scam warning and advice on 
additional due diligence. They should also have drawn Dr Hs attention to the fact there were 
red flags present, including the celebrity endorsement, the fact shed learned about the 
opportunity on social media, the use of remote access software and the fact shed been 
advised to make onward payments to a wallet address provided to her by the broker. 
There were no warnings about G on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have 
alerted Dr H to the fact there was a scam. But I havent seen any evidence that she was 
keen to take risks and I think that if shed had any inkling this might be a scam, she would 
have chosen not to go ahead with the payments. Because of this, I think HSBC failed to do 
enough in circumstances that would have prevented Dr Hs loss and so it should refund the 
money she lost from 6 June 2022 onwards. 
Contributory negligence
I accept theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Dr H 
was to blame for the fact she didnt foresee the risk. 
In recent years instances of individuals making large amounts of money by trading in 
cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent that I dont think it was unreasonable for Dr H to have believed what she was told by the broker in terms of the 
returns she was told were possible or not to have realised that being asked to download 
AnyDesk to her advice was an indicator for fraud.
Dr H was under the impression that G didnt need to be authorised by the FCA so its not 
unreasonable that she didnt check the FCA website. However, it was registered with 
Companies House and had a registered office, so she considered she had completed 
reasonable due diligence, which didnt uncover anything concerning. 
Consequently, whilst there may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is 
appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
Compensation
HSBC paid DR H £100 compensation for its failings when she reported the scam to it, and 
Im satisfied thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should: 
refund the money Dr H lost from 6 June 2022 onwards.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Dr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman