DRN-4328680
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy the service shes received from Sainsburys Bank Plc surrounding a 
balance transfer she instructed. 
What happened
Mrs C successfully applied for a Sainsburys credit card and instructed a balance transfer 
from her new Sainsburys credit card to another credit card she held with another provider. 
Several weeks later, Mrs C contacted Sainsburys because the balance transfer shed 
instructed hadnt been received into her other credit account, even though it was showing as 
having left her Sainsburys account. Sainsburys asked Mrs C to confirm the card details she 
instructed the transfer to, but Mrs C assured Sainsburys that the transfer had been 
instructed correctly. And because Sainsburys could confirm that the transfer had been 
processed to the card details provided by Mrs C, they referred Mrs C to the recipient credit 
provider for her to ask them to search for the funds that theyd received from Sainsburys.
Approximately three weeks later, Mrs C contacted Sainsburys again, with the money still 
having not been received into her other account, and asked Sainsburys to trace the sent 
funds. At this time, Sainsburys incorrectly told Mrs C that the transfer had never been 
processed by them, so Mrs C instructed the balance transfer again and raised a complaint. 
Sainsburys looked at Mrs Cs complaint but couldnt respond to it within a reasonable 
timeframe because the process to locate the initially sent funds hadnt completed. But 
Sainsburys did provide a temporary credit to Mrs Cs account equal to the amount of the 
transfer so that Mrs C wouldnt incur interest charges or pay unfair minimal payments on the 
disputed balance. And they also notified Mrs C of her right to refer her complaint to this 
service, which Mrs C did.
One of our investigators liaised with Mrs C and Sainsburys about this complaint. During their 
review, Sainsburys explained that when Mrs C had instructed the second balance transfer 
as a repeat of the first  having been incorrectly told by them that the first transfer hadnt 
been processed  shed provided different recipient card details to that given by her for the 
initial transfer. As such, Sainsburys felt Mrs C had instructed the first transfer incorrectly. But 
Sainsburys did accept that they had given Mrs C incorrect information about the first transfer 
not being processed by them when shed chased the missing balance with them.
Our investigator felt that Sainsburys assertion that Mrs C had instructed the first transfer 
incorrectly was persuasive and so didnt uphold that aspect of Mrs Cs complaint. But they 
did feel that Sainsburys incorrectly telling Mrs C that the initial transfer hadnt been 
completed by them had caused some frustration and trouble for Mrs C which shouldnt 
reasonably have been the case. Because of this, our investigator recommended that this 
complaint be upheld in Mrs Cs favour on that limited basis and that Sainsburys should 
make a compensation payment to Mrs C of £75. Mrs C didnt agree that shed instructed the 
initial transfer incorrectly, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel that the key factor of this complaint is whether Mrs C instructed the 
initial balance transfer correctly or not. Mrs C believes that she did instruct the transfer 
correctly. But when she was presented with the recipient card number that Sainsburys 
processed the initial transfer too, she confirmed that it wasnt the correct number.
Mrs C feels that Sainsburys processed the transfer to an incorrect recipient. But Sainsburys 
have explained that they processed the transfer to the recipient card details provided to them 
by Mrs C and have provided a screenshot of their system which takes the recipient card 
details directly from their customer inputs.
I find Sainsburys position to be the more persuasive here, because Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys have been able demonstrate that they processed the initial transfer to the card 
details provided by Mrs C. And I also feel that its considerably less likely that Sainsburys 
system would generate an incorrect recipient card number in this one instance rather than 
what I feel is the more plausible alternative that Mrs C keyed in the wrong card number.
Because of this, I dont feel that Sainsburys should be considered accountable for any of the 
consequences of the initial transfer not completing correctly. Instead, I feel that what most 
likely happened is that the initial transfer didnt complete correctly because of an error made 
by Mrs C. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint.  
However, when Mrs C was chasing this matter with Sainsburys, she was incorrectly told on 
one occasion that the initial transfer had never been processed. This led to Mrs C instructing 
the transfer again, this time to the correct recipient card, but also caused an understandable 
degree of frustration and angst that reasonably shouldnt have been the case.
As such, Ill be upholding this complaint against Sainsburys on this limited basis only and 
instructing Sainsburys to make a payment of £75 to Mrs C as compensation for the trouble 
and upset she incurred because of this provision of incorrect information.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the impact of the provision of this incorrect 
information on Mrs C. But Im also mindful that I feel that the upset and inconvenience Mrs C 
had experienced up to that time, and largely beyond that time, relates to the missing transfer 
balance which I feel that Mrs C herself was accountable for. As such, I feel that the amount 
of worry and trouble that Mrs C experienced solely because of this provision of incorrect 
information by Sainsburys was relatively minor, and that therefore £75 compensation for 
that worry and trouble is a fair amount.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs C was wanting. But I hope shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Sainsburys must make a payment of £75 to Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman