DRN-3759636
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S are insured under a travel insurance policy which is provided as a benefit of 
their bank account. The travel insurance policy is underwritten by Aviva. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mrs S was injured in a car accident. She was taken 
to hospital and treated for her injuries. Mrs S says the treating doctor told her she could 
travel back to the UK as planned the following day if she could lie down comfortably on the 
flight. So, Mr S arranged for business class flight upgrades for Mrs S and himself, as Mrs Ss 
carer. 
Mrs S made a claim with Aviva for the cost of the business class flight upgrades. Aviva said 
the claim wasnt covered because Mr and Mrs S hadnt contacted the medical emergency 
assistance helpline before making alternative travel arrangements, and because Mrs S had 
only provided limited medical information relating to her claim. 
Unhappy, Mrs S brought her complaint to the attention of our service. Our investigator didnt 
think Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claim. Mrs S didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While this complaint has been awaiting review by an ombudsman, Mrs S sent new medical 
evidence to Aviva, which included a new letter from the treating doctor abroad, the results of 
an ultrasound carried out several months after the accident and a letter from her GP dated 
29 July 2022. Aviva considered the new evidence, carried out additional enquiries and, in 
September and October 2022, declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim again for further reasons. This 
subsequent claim decline is the subject of a new complaint with our service, and I wont be 
commenting on these issues here. This final decision relates only to Avivas decision to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim for the reasons given in its final response letters of 22 February 
2022 and 4 March 2022. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy  in common with most, if not all, travel 
insurance policies on the market  require the policyholder to contact Aviva in the event of a 
medical emergency. Mr and Mrs S didnt contact Aviva before making arrangements to 
return to the UK on business class flights. This means their claim isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy. 
Based on the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require Aviva to depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and 
conditions and pay any or all of Mr and Mrs Ss claim. 
Mrs S has explained why Aviva wasnt notified about what happened. Regardless of whether 
I think Mrs Ss explanations on this point are reasonable, Aviva has been disadvantaged by 
Mr and Mrs Ss failure to notify it about the claim while they were abroad. Aviva wasnt given 
a reasonable opportunity to have an input into the decision about whether it was medically 
necessary for Mr and Mrs S to return to the UK on business class flights and/or to make its 
own arrangements for any transport alterations that may have been medically required, at a 
potentially reduced cost. I understand Mr and Mrs S say they were following the advice of 
Mrs S's treating doctor, but this doesnt mean that Aviva is obliged to cover the claim. Aviva 
is entitled to make its own reasonable investigations into what course of action is medically 
necessary in the event of an emergency, and Aviva wasnt given the chance to do this 
because it wasnt notified about Mr and Mrs Ss accident when it should have been. 
Aviva assessed the medical information provided by Mrs S, but I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by concluding that the limited evidence available doesnt 
demonstrate that it was medically necessary for Mr and Mrs S to return to the UK in 
business class. 
Ive seen two letters from the treating doctor abroad dated 1 February 2022. The first says 
that Mrs S needed special accommodation in aircraft and the second says Mrs S wouldnt 
have been able to travel in the normal flight seats as she needed to lay and rest her injury. 
But the medical information provided doesnt have the level of detail Id generally expect to 
see in a case of this type. Aviva said it needed confirmation of Mrs Ss exact diagnosis, the 
extent of her injuries and information about any treatment plan before it could confirm what 
assistance it would have offered if Mr and Mrs S had contacted it when they should have. 
And, Aviva has provided medical commentary to say theres no evidence that Mrs Ss injury 
required an upgrade to business class seats as a medical necessity. 
Its for Mrs S to submit evidence in support of her claim. Based on the information Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that Aviva clearly set out what evidence it wanted to see, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Aviva failed to request any photographs or x-rays from Mrs S. 
This means, overall, I dont think Avivas position is unreasonable and the content of any 
telephone conversations between Mrs S and Aviva doesnt change my decision. Im very 
sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs S have been through a difficult time, but I wont be directing 
Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman