DRN-3403009
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from HSBC Bank UK Plc, trading as First 
Direct, when opening an account in 2021 and the fact it later closed his three accounts. 
What happened
Mr M applied to open a current account with First Direct on 5 March 2021. There was a 
delay in setting up the account. After an affordability assessment the bank confirmed it would 
not be offering an overdraft facility. The account was opened on 9 April 2021 once Mr M had 
provided proof of identification. First Direct later realised that it had told Mr M in 2015 that it 
would not offer him any of its banking services following his treatment of its staff and so 
issued closure notices. 
Mr M complained about the account opening delays, poor service and an unprofessional call 
when his security password was not accepted. He says that when, in response, First Direct 
sent him a notice of closure based on what happened in 2015 this was inaccurate and 
discriminatory.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has sent a number of detailed emails to this service. I have read them all carefully. In 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I will focus on the issues I find 
to be material to the outcome of his complaint. 
To clarify, whilst I will need to reference events in 2015 as they relate to what happened in 
2021 this decision doesnt consider Mr Ms complaint about the decision to decline his 
application in 2015. 
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M was unhappy with delays in the account opening process for his current account and 
two savings accounts in March/April 2021. I can see First Direct acknowledged this and 
apologised in its final response letter dated 19 May 2021. It also explained its requests for 
certain documents were based on regulatory requirements. 
I have listened to the call on 6 May 2021 that Mr M says was unprofessional. I agree the call 
did not go well, but I dont find there were failings on the banks part. Mr M did not provide 
the correct last letter of his security word so the advisor could not proceed. As this caused 
Mr M a significant level of frustration I think it was reasonable for the advisor to end the call. I 
know Mr M has a different opinion  that the password was not accepted due to a bank 
error, but he has not provided any evidence to support this claim.
When First Direct was investigating Mr Ms complaint it found that it had told Mr M in 
December 2015 that it wouldnt offer him banking services in the future. This was due to how 
he treated its staff when he was unhappy his 2015 application was declined. I have been 
able to review the contact notes made at the time and there are references to unacceptable 
conduct and language. 
I accept it must have been frustrating for Mr M to be told just a couple of months after hed 
opened his new accounts that the bank would now be closing them. And it would have been 
preferable had it realised what had happened previously when assessing Mr Ms 
applications. But the terms of its accounts allow it to serve notice of closure as it did. 
Mr M also said First Direct mistreated him based on his health condition which is illegal. In 
terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. 
Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular 
case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and 
what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not First Direct has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. But for the reason Ive set out above, from
what I have seen Im satisfied that the banks actions were solely driven by its internal 
policies.
It follows I do not find First Direct made any errors it needs to put right.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman