DRN-2158967
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc (Zurich) 
mis-sold him a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC) in 1992.
 
What happened
Mr H joined his employers final salary occupational pension scheme in 1966. In March 
1992, when he was 49, he was recommended by Zurich to open an FSAVC and make 
regular additional contributions. The fact find at the time showed that Mr H wanted to 
maximise his retirement income and that he wanted to retire at 60. The FSAVC was invested 
50% in a managed fund and 50% into equity.
In 2019 Mr H, through a representative (R), complained to Zurich. R said Mr H wasnt 
informed of in-house alternatives with his occupational scheme and he would have chosen 
to buy added years in the scheme instead if he had known about it. R also complained that 
Mr H had not been contacted during the regulators FSAVC review in the early 2000s.
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They admitted they couldnt find any evidence that 
Mr H had been informed about alternatives to the FSAVC in 1992. However, they didnt think 
Mr H had lost out as a result.  Mr H had told them in a questionnaire they had asked him to 
complete for the complaint investigation that his employer had offered an added years 
arrangement since 1975 and a money purchase AVC with Prudential since 1993. 
Zurich concluded that a money purchase AVC was not available for Mr H through his 
employer at the time of sale in 1992. With regards to the added years option, they noted that 
Mr H would have achieved the maximum number of years of service (40 years) by the time 
he reached the normal retirement age of the scheme at age 65. So he wouldnt have 
qualified to buy added years. Zurich explained that not all FSAVC plans were included in the 
FSAVC review and Mr H didnt receive an invitation as his plan didnt fall into the relevant 
categories.
Mr H referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
R disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with Zurich and the investigator that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I say this for the following reasons:
There is no evidence that Zurich informed Mr H about alternatives to the FSAVC and 
that they might be cheaper and more suitable for Mr H. So they have failed in their 
obligations. However, in order to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied that 
Mr H would have explored available options with his employer and chosen a different 
pension option instead. 
Mr H told Zurich that his employer offered an added years option since 1975 and a 
Prudential AVC plan since 1993. Prudential confirmed independently that their AVC 
started in 1993. And when R asked Mr Hs occupational pension scheme when 
in- house AVCs first became available they said added years AVCs were permitted 
from the schemes outset. R says occupational schemes had to have AVCs since the 
late eighties which is correct. However, I cant see that any AVCs offered had to be 
money purchase AVCs or that Mr Hs employer offered such an alternative before 
1993. So Im satisfied the only available AVC through his occupational scheme at the 
time Zurich advised Mr H was the added years AVC.
At normal retirement age in the scheme Mr H would have accrued 41 years of 
service which was already over the maximum of 40 years. Added years are designed 
to make up for shortfalls where an employee otherwise cant reach the maximum 
number of years at normal retirement age. Early retirement plans wouldnt normally 
be taken into account. So I think its very unlikely there would have been scope for 
Mr H to buy added years.
So even if Mr H had been informed about alternatives and had decided to contact his 
employer, on balance there would have been no alternatives available for him 
through the occupational pension scheme.
Its correct that the FSAVC review didnt include all FSAVC plans. The main aim was 
to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching contributions 
or subsidies that the employer would have paid, had AVCs been used instead. Mr 
Hs employer wasnt on the list of schemes provided to firms by the regulator. Even if 
Mr Hs FSAVC had been reviewed, the result would have likely been the same as 
above, i.e. that despite errors in the advice process, Mr H had not been 
disadvantaged as no alternatives were available in his particular circumstances. 
I also considered whether the FSAVC was unsuitable for Mr H in general. However, 
theres no evidence that the contributions were unaffordable and even if I accept Rs 
submission that Mr H had a cautious attitude to risk, I dont think the investments in a 
managed fund and equity in equal measures were generally unsuitable for someone 
with 10 years to retirement. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman