DRN-2835140
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont grant him a further 
extension to his mortgage term
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a flexible repayment mortgage with Virgin Money in 2005 for 
£75,000. The term came to an end in 2018. Mrs M no longer lives in the property. In 
December 2017, Mr M asked for a one-year extension to the term to allow him to reduce the 
balance to £33,000 and then he would pay the balance through the sale of shares. Virgin 
Money agreed to that.
In November 2018, Mr M asked for a further extension, until March 2020 as he felt it that 
wasnt a good time to sell his shares. Virgin Money agreed with the balance to be reduced 
further. Then in late 2019 Mr M applied for a further extension so that the balance would be 
paid off by March 2021. The bank refused to extend the mortgage but offered Mr M a 
personal loan or an overdraft facility. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as he believed that Virgin Money had acted fairly and didnt give Mr M the 
false expectation that the mortgage term would be extended for a further period. Mr M 
disagreed saying in summary that the bank wasnt treating its customer fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money had agreed a flexible loan facility with Mr M which was to last until 2018 when 
Virgin Money was to be repaid. My understanding is that Mr M could pay that off at the time, 
but it suited him to get an extension of the mortgage term so that the total repayment was 
delayed for one and then two years. I appreciate that Mr M was reducing the facility in the 
meantime. It seems that Virgin Moneys policy allowed it to offer a two-year extension but no 
further although Mr M wasnt told of that initially. So, Virgin Money didnt renew the facility for 
a further year which Mr M considers unfair.
But Virgin Money should have been repaid its money at the end of the term and Mr M was 
able to repay it from the sale of shares and ISAs - he refers to having over £80,000 invested 
in these. He also has an investment property. Virgin Money, in its discretion allowed Mr M a 
further two years to repay but that didnt commit it to any further extension. As Mr M would 
have been able to pay off the balance from the sale of his assets, I dont believe that his best 
interests would have been served by a further extension of the term leading to a further 
delay in repayment. Depending on how his shares and ISAs performed such further delay 
may have left Mr M in a potentially worse situation. Although Mr M complains about the 
options of a personal loan or an overdraft offered to him by Virgin Money, if he wanted to 
avoid these, he had the simple option open to him of paying off the balance. 
So, my view is that in its discretion Virgin Money assisted Mr M by allowing him two further 
years to pay off this facility. But the bank is entitled to its money and Mr M can repay it and I 
dont consider that Virgin Money is doing anything wrong or not treating Mr M fairly by 
refusing a further extension of the mortgage term. So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman