DRN-3654905
The complaint
Mr G complains that CB Payments Ltd (CB) wont refund money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
Commencing on or around 28 September 2021, Mr G fell victim to what he describes as a 
multi-layered operation orchestrated by a company Ill refer to as Q. Mr G says Q sold him 
an investment opportunity and he was persuaded to transfer money to CB and then 
purchase crypto via Coinbase. That crypto was sent onto the scammer and Mr G says he 
lost approximately €34,800 as a result. 
Mr G complained that Coinbase failed to recognise that he was falling victim to a scam and 
also failed to intervene and appropriately warn him. He feels Coinbase could have prevented 
his loss and asked for it to return his money. 
Coinbase replied and said on 28 September 2021 and 29 September 2021, Mr G sent 
Bitcoin to one external blockchain address. It said it has no control over this blockchain 
address and it cannot verify who owns it. As Mr G authorised the payments, they cannot be 
cancelled, reversed or recovered in accordance with his user agreement. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. 
CB highlighted Mr Gs complaint does not relate to the issuance of e-money or the provision 
of any payment service provided by it as an e-money business. Rather, the complaint relates 
to digital asset services, over which we have no jurisdiction. It said the service complained 
about  specifically the sending of cryptocurrency is a service provided by Coinbase Europe 
which is unregulated. 
One of our Investigators felt we could consider some of what Mr G had complained about. 
She didnt think CB could have known that he was falling victim to a scam as the 
transactions were in keeping with how an account of this nature would normally be operated. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. He said in 
summary that:
CB ought to have considered his transactions as unusual in line with good industry 
practice. 
CB didnt carry out AML and KYC checks as obligated. 
Good industry practice sets out scenarios where customers ought to be protected 
from financial harm and CB failed to protect him. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for much of the same reasons as our 
investigator. 
I can consider some aspects of this complaint. But I think there are several points Mr G has 
raised over the course of his complaint that our service doesnt have the power to consider. 
Weve previously made CB aware of our jurisdiction to consider complaints like Mr Gs and 
Ive noted our Investigator explained this, so I dont intend to repeat in great detail here why 
our service can consider some of the complaint points that have been raised. But to 
summarise, because Mr G deposited fiat currency into his CB wallet and purchased crypto, 
he was provided with electronic money services by CB, and Im satisfied Mr Gs complaint 
relates, at least in part, to those services, we can consider this aspect of Mr Gs complaint. 
However, when Mr G purchased crypto, it was added to his digital wallet held with Coinbase 
Europe. Coinbase Europe isnt a regulated entity and our service cant consider a complaint 
related to it, or any of the other crypto activity or transactions carried out from Mr Gs wallet. 
This means I will not be able to consider Mr Gs concerns about:
Recovering his crypto
Monitoring fraudulent blockchains
Blocking a crypto payment for further checks
Ive therefore thought about the aspects of Mr Gs complaint that I can consider. 
The starting point for my considerations is that Mr G is generally solely responsible for 
payments he made himself. And it doesnt appear to be disputed that at the time the 
payments were made, he believed he was involved in a genuine investment opportunity. Mr 
G also made all the payments to his CB account from his own bank account and he could 
see a corresponding amount on the fake trading platform provided by Q. Mr G also had 
access to his CB account as he opened this himself. 
As Mr G authorised the payments, hes presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
that isnt the end of things. I agree with Mr G that CB should monitor its customers accounts 
for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. This should include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case I can see that Mr Gs CB Payments account was newly opened. That meant 
there wasnt any genuine account activity to compare the activity against and CB wouldnt be 
able to understand what typical account activity for Mr G was. Ive noted between 28 
September 2021 to 29 September 2021, Mr G funded his account with €34,800 in three 
separate payments, purchased Bitcoin and then sent this on. The largest individual 
transaction was for €19,500 but I have to take into account that the activity of depositing 
funds into a CB account and purchasing crypto is (along with withdrawing funds back to a 
bank account) essentially the only activity which a CB account can be used for. So that 
activity carried out by Mr G isnt likely to have stood out as being unusual. Its also the case 
that the purchase of crypto using a CB account is, in effect, a transfer of funds between two 
accounts under the customers control. So, taking all of that into account, I cant agree that the frequency and amounts of the 
transactions (including the one-off larger payment I mentioned) meant that CB ought to have 
been concerned that Mr G was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr G argues that CB didnt carry out appropriate AML and KYC checks, but I dont agree. 
Theres no dispute that it was Mr G who opened and funded the account with his own, 
legitimate funds. AML obligations extend beyond the opening of an account and origins of 
the funds deposited to an account, those obligations are not always aligned with preventing 
financial harm from fraud. They are primarily aimed at preventing criminals laundering 
money. That means that even if CB had found the activity on Mr Gs account to be 
suspicious from an AML perspective (though I dont agree there was any cause for suspicion 
here), it doesnt necessarily follow that the scam would have been uncovered. 
For that to happen, I think CB would have had to have had a fairly detailed conversation with 
Mr G and discussed the wider circumstances surrounding the payment. It then might have 
been in a position to provide a warning about the dangers of falling victim to crypto scams. 
But, I think it would be onerous to expect CB to do that for every customer and every 
transaction. Instead, I think it was only obliged to do this where it had cause to be concerned 
about the risk of fraud. And, after considering Mr Gs disputed payments, I dont think that 
was the case here for the reasons Ive explained. As Mr G didnt contact or speak to CB 
during the scam, I also cant see any other reason for it to have suspected fraud. 
Im also satisfied that Mr Gs funds could not be recovered as it is accepted they were sent 
off the Coinbase platform, in crypto, to a third party. 
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathies for Mr Gs loss, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman