DRN-4422691
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about how UK Insurance Limited (Covea) dealt with a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by a leak from a radiator. 
Covea use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Covea 
includes these agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs H and Mr H had an issue with a radiator in their property that froze 
during the night and split. When the heating came on, water leaked from the radiator, 
damaging a carpet beneath. Mrs H and Mr H contacted Covea the following month (through 
their broker) to tell them of the damage and lodge a claim. They provided photographs of the 
damage and engaged a plumber to replace the radiator.
Covea accepted and settled the claim for damage to the carpet but initially said they wouldnt 
cover the radiator as they considered it a maintenance issue, which the policy didnt cover.
Mrs H and Mr H challenged Coveas decision and, through their broker, contacted the 
plumber whod replace the radiator. The plumber said the leak from the radiator could have 
been caused by the age of the radiator or the cold weather at the time of the leak. Covea 
maintained their view the damage to the radiator was due to wear and tear.
Unhappy at Coveas decision, Mrs H and Mr H complained. Covea didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response, they said they were declining the claim on the grounds the 
damage was due to frost, referring to a policy exclusion for damage caused by frost, 
settlement or shrinkage.
Mrs H and Mr H then complained to this service. They were unhappy at Covea declining 
their claim, saying the damage to the radiator wasnt the result of wear and tear, and that the 
radiator had frozen, causing it to split. The policy didnt define the term frost, which they 
thought didnt include an interior radiator freezing. Theyd suffered financial loss and distress 
from what had happened and wanted Covea to cover the damage to the radiator.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Covea acted fairly in declining the 
claim. She said most insurance policies covered damage from an escape of water from a 
burst pipe or appliance but didnt usually include damage to the pipe or appliance itself. The 
policy excluded damage frost, settlement or shrinkage. If the damage was caused by the 
radiator freezing, it was reasonable for Covea to decline the claim for the damaged radiator. 
But if the damage was caused by the age of the radiator, the other possible cause cited by 
the plumber, that also wouldnt be covered under the policy. So, she thought Covea didnt 
need to take any further action.
Mrs H and Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They didnt agree the cause of the damage to the radiator was due to 
wear and tear, as the evidence didnt support that view and given the split in the radiator and 
it not being a gradual leak. While the radiator was old, it was in good condition. Nor did they 
think an exclusion for frost was reasonable to apply to a radiator inside their property, which 
they maintained had frozen, and the policy terms didnt clearly exclude. They thought a 
dictionary definition of frost should be applied in the absence of a definition in the policy, 
which wouldnt include a frozen interior radiator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea has acted fairly towards Mrs H and Mr H.
The main element of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that Covea unfairly declined their claim 
for the damage to the radiator. Mrs H and Mr H say the damage should be covered under 
the policy, as the cause of the damage wasnt wear and tear, and the exclusion for frost cant 
reasonably be held to apply to a radiator inside the property. Covea initially declined the 
claim on the grounds the damage was a maintenance (wear and tear) issue and, in their final 
response, on the grounds of an exclusion for frost. 
Given the issue revolves around decline of the claim under exclusions for wear and tear and 
then frost, Ive first looked at the relevant policy terms and conditions. Within the Buildings 
section theres a heading What you are not covered for which includes the following:
3. Loss or damage caused by
Frost, settlement or shrinkage
The General Exclusions section of the policy includes the following under a sub heading 
What you are not covered for:
1. Loss or damage or any claim caused by:
Wear, tear or the gradual deterioration of something with age and over 
time
Ive also considered the opinion of the plumber who replaced the radiator. In exchanges with 
Mrs H and Mr Hs broker the plumber makes the following statements (in chronological 
order):
In my opinion, the fault with the radiator could have been due to old age. We were 
experiencing a very cold snap at the time of failure which could have contributed to 
its demise.
I never stated that your radiator failed as a result of old age or cold weather  just 
said those were possibilities.
With the best will in the world, I cannot give a concrete reason for how the radiator 
failed.
I accept the plumber hasnt given a definitive view on the cause of the damage to the 
radiator, but the two possibilities are, firstly, the age of the radiator. Given the wording of the 
wear and tear exclusion, I think it reasonable, on the balance of probabilities, to conclude the 
exclusion would apply if the age of the radiator was the cause of the damage (if freezing was 
held to be the cause of the damage, it would have highlighted the radiators age and ability 
to withstand the freezing). And while the plumber subsequently declined to provide a definitive opinion about the cause of the radiator damage, their initial view does indicate the 
age of  the radiator could be a factor in the damage to it. 
If the damage was  as Mrs H and Mr H believe  due to the freezing of the radiator, then 
the question becomes one of whether it was fair and reasonable of Covea to apply the 
exclusion for damage caused by frost.
In considering this issue, as well as the policy wordings and views of the plumber, Ive also 
noted what Mrs H and Mr H have said (in communication with their broker) about the 
circumstances of the leak. They say the radiator was immediately under their bedroom 
window, which they kept open during the night in spite of cold temperatures. And the burst 
occurred during a very cold spell when temperatures were approximately -10c. They were 
woken by a bang in the night but there wasnt an escape of water until the following morning, 
after the heating had come on.
Thinking about this description, while they contend the wording of the policy exclusion 
wouldnt cover a frozen radiator inside the property, leaving a radiator exposed to what they 
say were freezing outside temperatures would, I think, be something the exclusion for frost 
could reasonably be held to cover. 
Mrs H and Mr H also say that as the policy doesnt define frost, they think it reasonable to 
use a dictionary definition, and theyve provided the following definition (from the Concise 
Oxford English Dictionary):
A deposit of small white ice crystals formed on the ground or other surfaces when 
the temperature falls below freezing.
They maintain this means freezing of water on the outside (their emphasis) of a surface. And 
in their case the water inside (their emphasis) the radiator froze and was inside their 
property, with no deposit of ice on the outside of the radiator. So, they think the damage to 
the radiator wasnt caused by frost. 
However, Ive looked at other definitions of frost on publicly available sources. While they 
include references to such things as white layers of ice and occurring outside, they also 
include phrases including:
degree or state of coldness sufficient to cause the freezing of water.
the thin white layer of ice that forms when the air temperature is below the 
freezing point of water, especially outside at night.
A water condition in which the air temperature falls below the freezing point of water, 
especially outside at night.
a) the process of freezing
b) a covering of minute ice crystals on a cold surface
c) the temperature that causes freezing. 
Looking at these definitions, together with the circumstances Mrs H and Mr H have 
described that led to the radiator freezing, then Ive concluded it isnt unreasonable to apply 
the term frost (and so the exclusion for damage caused by frost) to what happened to the 
radiator. By definition, the air temperature would have had to be below the freezing point of 
water, even (as in this case) where the radiator was inside the property.Mrs H and Mr H also refer to other exclusions in the policy for freezing of water within any 
fixed water or heating installation in certain circumstances, such as when the property is 
unoccupied. Their inclusion indicates the frost exclusion wasnt intended to apply to fixed 
water installations (such as a radiator).
Ive considered this point, but I dont agree. These separate terms are generally included to 
reflect the fact that, where a property is unoccupied longer than a specified period, the risk of 
damage or loss from an escape of water (however caused) is significantly greater. And any 
damage is likely to be more significant as it wouldnt be detected as quickly had the property 
been occupied. So, I dont think the inclusion of such terms affects my conclusion Covea 
acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion(s) in the 
policy to decline a claim (as Covea have done by citing the above exclusions  either/or for 
wear and tear and for frost - then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking 
at the available information and evidence, I think Covea have done so in the circumstances 
of this case.
So, Ive concluded Covea acted fairly in declining Mrs H and Mr Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman