DRN-2362646
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr E had an account with Barclays that was closed in March 2019. He later found that 
Barclays had also registered a fraud marker without discussing with him what had 
happened. 
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake in closing the account or registering the marker. It 
recognised that his account had been blocked for an extended period before closure and it 
hadnt considered his complaint correctly. It offered to pay Mr E £300.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more. She said that Mr E had received 
a credit of £3,150 to his account on 26 November 2018. He had withdrawn £3,000 of this in 
cash that day and the rest had been used to make payments. This credit has been reported 
as a payment obtained through a scam. 
Shed asked Mr E to show why he thought he was entitled to the money. His bank statement 
showed some credits from an employer of £400 to £500. He says his employer was a sub-
contractor to another company and that his payments had been erratic. As a result, he 
believed this to be a lump sum payment for his work from the other company. There did 
seem to be a link between the two companies. But Mr E hadnt been able to show he was 
due this amount for work he had completed. And he had withdrawn this money straight 
away. There didnt seem any reason for him to do so. Barclays closed the account in line 
with the terms and conditions and had a basis to apply the marker. It wasnt required to tell 
Mr E about this.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that he had made a subject access request to Barclays and 
wanted to see the information it held about him. He said that the payment of £3,150 was 
authorised by the main contractor and that payments might be inconsistent and in lump 
sums. He said he didnt trust banks and I thought that the payment would bounce or be 
blocked due to my account not having huge and consistent funds. He said he used the 
money to pay for rent and Christmas presents and says that his workplace was shut down. 
He thought that Barclays would have attempted to contact him as he had been a customer 
for a number of years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E referred to making a subject access request in November 2020 and that he was told it 
would take 30 to 90 days. I know he wanted to be able to see that information before an 
ombudsman looked at this case. But in any event I think hes now had a reasonable 
opportunity to put all his comments and evidence forward.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that this credit was reported as fraudulently obtained 
by the sender as part of a scam. I wouldnt expect Barclays to disclose information about any 
third party to Mr E. And in a conversation with our investigator Mr E now seemed to accept 
that the origin of the payment had been fraudulent.
The issue then is whether Mr E reasonably knew that at the time and so was a witting 
participant in the fraud. Or alternatively whether as he says he genuinely believed that this 
was money from his employment.
From the copies of Mr Es bank statements that Ive seen, the credits from the employer he 
mentions start to be made on 15 October 2018 at £480. They continue that year as follows 
22 October £400; 29 October £400; 14 November £400; and 12 December 2018 £500. The 
payment in question was made on 26 November 2018 and was for £3,510 with a different 
payment reference. Mr Es employer appeared to be a creditor of the main contractor which 
went into liquidation in 2019. 
Given the problems with the main contractor it is possible that Mr E was owed more money 
for his employment. And this employment seemed to stop as he says in December 2018. 
The difficulty I have is linking the larger payment on 26 November 2018 to his legitimate 
employment. I can see our investigator asked him before for any contract, pay slip, invoice 
or tax record to support this. He hasnt provided anything I see supports this payment being 
due to him. And his explanation for withdrawing the money straightaway I dont see is based 
on any substantiated concern. To me it seems most likely he knew that these funds hadnt 
been legitimately obtained and that he wasnt genuinely due this money. 
He says on his complaint form to this service that he did go into a branch about his account 
when it was suspended. And he was told that he needed to get confirmation of the payment 
from the payer. He says he was told by that payer this it did do so many times. But he says 
that he is disappointed there is no record of this and that he hadnt heard from that company 
since. His statement indicates that he reasonably knew at the time about the concern and 
didnt have any further direct evidence. So, Im not persuaded that even if he had been able 
to speak to Barclays further it would have made a difference. Having said that it accepts that 
its own investigation into what happened took longer than normal. And that it didnt deal with 
all his complaint points. Thats why it has offered to pay him £300. 
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr E received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Es account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr E received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr E had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Barclays was entitled to close the account under the terms and conditions. I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require it to do more than it has already offered to. I think that the 
compensation now offered is fair.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr E £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman