DRN-3835822
The complaint
L Ltd, represented by Mr J, complained because Starling Bank Limited refused to refund him 
for transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 31 July 2022, Mr J was in a bar on holiday abroad. He said that his wallet and phone 
were stolen. He said that a friend rang his phone, and someone answered who said theyd 
found the wallet and phone and would shortly hand them back to the bar. Mr J got them back 
from the bar. He went to bed, and when he woke up, he saw that some cards were missing, 
including L Ltds Starling debit card. Mr J checked his account and saw that there had been 
five debits to L Ltds Starling account. These had taken place between 5.30am and 6.47 am 
and ranged from the local currency equivalent of £467.22 to £840.99.  The total of the five 
disputed transactions was £3,668.72. 
Mr J contacted Starling that afternoon, and reported the five transactions on L Ltds account 
which he said he hadnt authorised. He told Starling that hed lost the companys card while 
on a night out on holiday, and he had no idea how a fraudster could have known the PIN. He 
said he suspected the bar staff had made the transactions. Mr J said hed reported this to 
the local police and obtained a crime reference number for his report. Starling cancelled the 
card and investigated.
The transactions had been made through a mobile payment service, using a mobile wallet, 
which is a digital wallet that stores payment card information on a mobile. Starling asked Mr 
J more questions. He said there was a PIN to access his phone, and Starling asked him how 
he thought the phone PIN could have been compromised. Mr J said he wasnt sure, but hed 
used another card with the same PIN in that bar, so perhaps theyd guessed it. He also said 
that as the phone only locked when Mr J set it, perhaps the phone hadnt been protected 
when it was stolen. Starling asked whether Mr J kept his PIN covered, or if he remembered 
anyone seeing him use the PIN, Mr J said he had no idea.
Starling rejected L Ltds claim on 5 August. It said it had found no evidence to support there 
having been fraudulent activity on the account. Starling also said it hadnt been able to 
establish how both the card and PIN could have been compromised. 
Mr J didnt agree. He complained, asking what Starling had done to investigate; whether it 
had contacted the bar; and how Starling thought he could possibly have spent that amount in 
the time. He said he had a crime reference number so was Starling accusing him of lying if it 
said no fraudulent activity had taken place. He said other card providers had refunded him, 
so why couldnt Starling, and said surely it could just reverse the transactions. He asked who 
the merchant was, and said he wasnt having this at all.
Starling issued a final response to L Ltds complaint on 15 August. It refused to refund the 
transactions. It said it hadnt been able to establish how both L Ltds card and PIN had been 
compromised for these transactions. It said it couldnt share further evidence and information 
for security reasons. 
L Ltd, represented by Mr J, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Mr J said hed 
been massively affected, because that money had been to pay wages on 1 September, so 
hed had to borrow the money for that. He wanted a refund, and said that as hed provided a 
crime reference number, Starling was incorrect to say that there was no evidence of fraud.
Our investigator didnt uphold L Ltds complaint. He set out reasons, and concluded that 
having looked at the evidence, he thought it was most likely that Mr J had authorised the 
payments himself, or had authorised someone else to carry them out.
Mr J, for L Ltd, didnt agree. He said many of the investigators assumptions and conclusions 
were incorrect. His points included:
- to his knowledge there was no security protection on his phone, and no request for a 
password so anyone could have done it if theyd got his phone;
- after the five transactions there had been about £700 remaining, and perhaps the 
fraudsters thought theyd emptied the account or had run out of time;
- he thought someone who worked at or owned the bar had made the transactions. 
Hed googled the bar, and said this showed it was a regular occurrence at that 
particular bar, so why was it hard to believe it had happened to him?
- he  had a police crime reference number, and wanted to know how the investigator 
thought he could possibly have spent that kind of money in a bar at that time of the 
morning, when he had responsibilities as a Managing Director for L Ltd;
- other card companies had refunded him, though the amounts were smaller, without 
questioning his credibility, and he was a victim not a perpetrator;
- he believed there was enough evidence for Starling to recredit the money to L Ltds 
account, then ask for reimbursement from the bar. 
Mr J, for L Ltd, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in July 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Starling) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Starling has provided the technical 
computer evidence showing that the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mr J, for L Ltd, authorised 
the payments.
Ive first considered how any third party might have been able to make the transactions if 
theyd stolen Mr Js phone. Mr Js evidence on this has varied, as he initially told Starling 
there was a PIN which had to be entered to unlock the phone. He first said someone else 
might have seen him enter his PIN on a different card and might have guessed it would be 
the same. He then said that there was a chance the phone hadnt been locked. In 
responding to our investigators view, Mr J said to his knowledge there was no security protection on his phone, and no request for a password so anyone could have done it if 
theyd got his phone. Mr J also told Starling that there was no additional security for 
accessing his mobile wallet. So Mr Js version of the security has varied over time, but as 
Ive set out above, the relevant regulations do require account holders to keep their security 
details secure. 
Mr J has argued that he obtained a police crime report from the local police abroad, so it was 
incorrect to say there was no evidence of fraud. Ive looked at the document provided, but it 
doesnt provide enough information to help here. It doesnt give Mr Js name, or any date, or 
any details of the complaint. Its headed Virtual complaints office for the town where Mr J 
was on holiday, and gives a reference number, but no other details. It says Your complaint 
will be available at [police address] and you have three days to formalise it. So this 
document doesnt provide evidence that Mr J made a report to the local police about this 
incident in July 2022. And even if he did, submitting an online report to the police doesnt 
prove that there was any police investigation, or what the outcome was, or that there was 
any official conclusion that a fraud had taken place. 
Importantly, Ive considered how fraudsters normally work, and compared that with the 
circumstances here:
- Fraudsters normally maximise their gain by emptying an account. That isnt what 
happened here, with several hundred pounds remaining. Im not persuaded by Mr Js 
suggestion that the fraudsters perhaps thought they had emptied the account, or ran 
out of time.
- The five transactions are timed between 5.30 am and 6.47 am. Id expect fraudulent 
transactions to be much closer together than that  so the fraudsters could maximise 
their gain before anyone could stop the account.
- I dont consider any fraudsters would return any stolen wallet and phone to the bar 
for handing back to Mr J. Mr J says he believes the bar owner or staff carried out the 
transactions  but even if this were the case, its still not plausible that theyd then 
hand the wallet and phone back to Mr J. Its far more likely theyd have kept them, 
and continued to make transactions. 
- Mr J didnt report the disputed transactions until the afternoon of 31 July. He said 
hed received his wallet and some cards back and then went to bed, but didnt check 
whether all his cards were there until he woke in the afternoon. I think its much more 
likely that anyone who had genuinely had a stolen wallet handed back to them would 
immediately have checked whether their cards etc were all still in the wallet  not 
waited till theyd gone to bed then checked in the afternoon. 
Finally, dealing with Mr Js other comments, I look at the specific circumstances of all 
complaints individually, rather than relying on an internet search about the history of any 
location where transactions took place. The same applies to other card companies 
decisions, as this complaint is solely about what happened with L Ltds account with Starling. 
And Starling as a payment services provider would conduct its investigation and come to its 
own decision about whether or not it was liable under the Payment Services Regulations. I 
wouldnt expect it to refund L Ltd, then try to obtain refunds from a bar abroad, when its 
investigation led it to believe there was no evidence to show that a fraud had taken place. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr J carried out 
the disputed transactions himself. So I dont require Starling to refund L Ltd.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman