DRN-2397573
The complaint
Mr W had an overdraft with Lloyds Bank PLC. This was first set up in 2005, and was for 
£6,000. Mr W feels that appropriate affordability checks werent carried out  leaving him 
with a hardcore overdraft for 14 years. He doesnt feel hes been provided with any help or 
support from Lloyds.
What happened
First, I must note that I am only considering this complaint from June 2013 onwards, as this 
is what our rules permit. Our investigator explained this to Mr W and hes aware that this is 
the case. She also considered the complaint from this point. So I refer only to events prior to 
this, in order to give context.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She felt that the fees and charges 
from June 2013 had been applied fairly, and in line with Lloyds terms and conditions. But 
she could see that Lloyds had refunded a proportion of the fees and charges. She noted that 
although theyd been applied in line with the terms and conditions, we still expect banks to 
act sympathetically and positively when customers are struggling financially. 
Our investigator could see that Lloyds wrote to Mr W about his account status and the fees 
he was incurring, but that he didnt reply. She thought Lloyds had made attempts to help, but 
this didnt need necessarily to extend to a full refund.
Mr W responded. He explained that one of his main concerns was that Lloyds wouldnt offer 
him a loan to clear the overdraft.
Mr Ws complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that what Lloyds has done is fair. I know this will be very 
disappointing, but Ill explain why.
I cant look at what happened around the affordability of the overdraft when it was taken out. 
I can only look at whats happened during the six years before Mr W complained to us.
When a customer is in financial difficulty, a bank must respond positively and 
sympathetically. In this case, Lloyds wrote to Mr W about what was happening. It also 
refunded a proportion of fees and charges, and asked him to contact its specialist team. Ive 
not seen evidence that he did. Accordingly, the account was passed to the recoveries team. 
This meant no further fees or charges were applied.
I appreciate this situation must be very stressful. But looking at what Lloyds has done, in the 
period I can consider, I think it took steps to contact Mr W about the situation. But it didnt 
hear back. Whilst its true to say a customer may be the one to alert a bank to financial 
difficulties, its also true that if a bank is aware of the difficulties (for example by account 
activity), it should also take steps. Here, Lloyds gave a partial refund, wrote to Mr W, and 
ultimately stopped fees and charges. 
I know Mr W feels a loan would be a better option for him. But it would be new lending, that 
needs to pass affordability assessments. This was declined. As it stands, as the account is 
in recoveries, Mr W is not incurring fees and charges.
I am sorry Mr W is in this position, but I do think Lloyds has behaved fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that what Lloyds Bank PLC has done is 
fair and reasonable. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman