DRN-4012124
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed
to make shares available to trade on their platform in a timely manner, causing him a loss.
Mr C has also complained that HLAM havent provided him with copies of reports and fee 
information as requested.
What happened
Mr C initially complained about two particular instances where he felt that shares werent 
available for him on the HLAM platform, in a timely manner. HLAM didnt think our service 
had the power to consider the first instance that Mr C complained about, because it wasnt 
referred to our service within six-months of its final response letter. Our investigator agreed.
Mr C didnt agree and as no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me to 
decide. I determined that the initial instance complained about hadnt been brought to us in 
time and we could only consider the second instance, as well as Mr Cs complaint about the 
provision of reports and fees information. The case was passed to the investigator to 
consider. 
She said that HLAM had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions and in a timely 
and fair manner, when making the shares available on their platform following Mr Cs 
enquiry. She stated that HLAM couldnt take part in every initial public offering (IPO) and that 
this is stated on the HLAM website. She also felt the £100 compensation offered to Mr C for 
the delay in informing him when the shares were available, was fair. She said that reports 
and fee information was available online. She didnt think HLAMs actions with this warranted 
any further compensation.   
Mr C remained unhappy. He maintained that the shares shouldve been available for him to 
purchase sooner after the IPO and that hed made a financial loss because they werent. He 
also felt that the investor report and fee information shouldve been sent to him sooner. 
As no agreement was reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C was frustrated that shares in Couchbase (BASE) werent 
available to him immediately after their IPO and admittance to the NASDAQ exchange. I 
believe Mr C saw an investment opportunity that he wanted to take advantage of and wasnt 
able to through the platform of his choice. However, HLAM do not guarantee to make every 
security available on all markets that they trade on. 
HLAM have said that this is based on consumer demand and I think this is fair. It is not a 
reasonable expectation for every security to be available and it is not something that HLAM 
have guaranteed or offered to Mr C. In addition to this, HLAM have said that following IPOs, 
they arent always able to offer shares they have decided to add to their platform 
automatically. They are reliant on a Crest depository interest and a price discovery auction 
period. I am satisfied that this is a reasonable explanation and expectation. 
However, HLAM have acknowledged that after agreeing to list BASE shares following Mr Cs 
request, they took too long to inform him. They have said that they received confirmation 
from CREST on 2 August 2021 and added BASE to their platform on 3 August 2021, but 
didnt inform Mr C until 9 August 2021. They have offered Mr C £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience of this delay and I think this is fair. I am not satisfied that Mr C suffered any 
financial loss from this delay. I say that because I have been provided with evidence to show 
that no shares in BASE were purchased even after 9 August 2021. So, I cant say Mr C 
would have bought them sooner. I also note that the share price was less after Mr C was 
informed theyd been added to the platform, than they were on 3 August 2021. I think £100 is 
reasonable for any inconvenience suffered. 
HLAM have previously objected to this service considering the complaint about the provision 
of investor reports, statements and fee information. Whilst they have said they dont feel it is 
regulated activity, I want to clarify why we can look at it They are providing an overall general 
broking service, of which this provision is a part. As it is ancillary to this service and the 
issues complained about, our service can look at it. 
Mr C has also objected to us looking at the report and fee information provision, under this 
complaint. However, that is for me to decide. Whilst I appreciate they are fairly separate 
issues, and also linked to a separate complaint that Mr C has live with HLAM, I am satisfied 
they are wrapped up in one complaint Mr C has made about the service hes been given by 
HLAM in providing a share dealing platform. I note Mr C also mentioned the sub points 
together on his complaint form. I am therefore treating them as one complaint and I am 
satisfied that both parties have heard our initial assessment of the individual issues making 
up the whole complaint, and have had an opportunity to make representations. 
Whilst I have established I can consider these issues, I dont believe that HLAM have done 
anything wrong. Mr C wants access to investment reports through the HLAM app or email. 
Whilst HLAM have confirmed that not all this information is on the app, they are working on 
that. However, they have confirmed that all the information that Mr C has asked for is 
available if he logs on to their website and follows the links. They can provide help in 
navigating to this if Mr C requires it.  
In Summary, I think it is fair that HLAM do not provide every security on their platform and do 
so based on demand. I dont believe they ever offered Mr C anything other than this. The 
shares he requested were added and in a timely manner but I agree that he should have 
been told about this sooner. £100 for the inconvenience of this is fair as I havent seen any 
evidence of financial loss here. I also agree that any documents Mr C required have been 
available through the HLAM website. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. They should pay Mr C the £100, if they havent already done so.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman