DRN-3736268
The complaint
M complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited has settled its claim on its commercial 
property owners insurance policy.
Mr C, as a beneficiary of Ms policy, has brought this complaint on Ms behalf. For ease of 
reading Ill refer to Mr C throughout.
What happened
Mr C owned a property that was covered by a commercial buildings insurance policy which 
was taken out through a broker. In February 2022 he raised a claim following damage 
caused by a storm. Ageas accepted the claim, however in the process of investigating it, 
Ageas found that the property had a completely flat roof of timber construction. It said this 
didnt match the information that had been provided when the policy was incepted. And if it 
had, Ageas would have charged a higher premium for the policy with a higher applicable 
excess. 
On discovering the error Mr C made a complaint to his broker. As he said hed provided the 
correct information to the broker, but this hadnt been accurately passed on to Ageas. The 
broker upheld the complaint and agreed to pay the difference in premiums directly to Ageas. 
And, after Mr C brought it to this service, it also agreed to reimburse him the difference 
between the excess he now had to pay and what he would have paid. 
Following this Ageas cash settled Mr Cs claim for the storm damage. However it said that 
due to the misrepresentation that was made at inception, it would only offer a proportionate 
settlement of around 63% of the total claim cost because thats the proportion of the total 
premiums Mr C paid compared to what he should have paid had it known the construction of 
the property. It said it was entitled to do this under the Insurance Act 2015.
Mr C wasnt happy with this. He said it had already been established that the 
misrepresentation was the fault of his broker, and the full premiums had now been paid. So 
he didnt think it was fair that he was being penalised for the brokers error. He brought the 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended it be upheld. He said as the 
broker had already paid the full premiums that should have been charged at inception it 
wasnt fair to apply the remedy available in the insurance act and therefore thought Ageas 
should pay Mr C the full claim amount. 
Mr C accepted our investigators outcome, however Ageas didnt. It asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute here that a misrepresentation was made when the policy was taken out. 
Ageas asked the following question:
"Are the walls constructed solely of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates, tiles or 
concrete?"
Which was answered as yes, but it was subsequently found that the roof was 100% flat 
timber and felt construction. 
As this is a commercial policy, the relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015. Under which a 
customer is required to provide a fair presentation of the risk when they take out a policy. 
And if they dont, and the insurer can show that it would have provided the policy on different 
terms or not at all if they had, then the insurer is entitled to apply a number of remedies. 
Such as proportionately settling a claim based on the difference between the premiums paid 
and how much should have been paid. So I understand why Ageas has come to the 
settlement amount it has.
However in the circumstances, I dont agree it has acted fairly by applying the Insurance Act 
here. This is because the broker has accepted the error was its own and paid the difference 
in premiums to Ageas. While this isnt a remedy this service would usually direct, as Ageas 
has accepted the difference in premiums, it now wouldnt be fair for it to also settle the claim 
proportionately. As it has already accepted an alternative remedy to the issue and as 
received full payment for the policy. I therefore agree with our investigator that Ageas should 
now settle the claim at the full amount, without reducing it proportionately. 
I appreciate that Ageas may wish to discuss its original acceptance of the additional policy 
premiums with the broker if it no longer sees that as an appropriate remedy. Or to pursue 
any costs it considers to be additional to what it is required to pay. However this process 
should not impact Mr C or the settlement he receives. It is agreed that Mr C was not 
responsible for the error here, so he is entitled to a full settlement. It will then be between 
Ageas and the broker to discuss any allocation of costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Ms complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr Cs claim in full. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr C, on behalf of M, to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman