DRN-4150872
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc has said it will pay outstanding 
rentcharges to the managing agent of their leasehold property (which I will call JP). 
Mr and Mrs S say that JP has confirmed they are up-to-date with their service charges and 
so Mr and Mrs S dispute that they owe any money to JP.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs S were re-mortgaging a leasehold property to Santander. This completed on 
1 December 2020 but because there was a restriction on the land register, it wasnt possible 
for Santander to register its charge until the restriction was removed. 
The restriction had been placed on the register by JP as a result of unpaid rentcharges 
dating back to 2008 totalling £502. In order to have the restriction removed, Santander 
requires the outstanding amount to be paid. 
Mr and Mrs S were very unhappy about this and that Santander claims they owe any rent. 
They complained to Santander, saying that they had had confirmation from JP that they 
were not in arrears with service charges and so they disputed they owed any money to JP.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and so it was brought to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But he thought 
Santander should put any action to on hold until theyd been through JPs complaints 
process.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve reiterated their 
points that they believe they are not in arrears of ground rent or service charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
The amount claimed by JP is not for outstanding ground rent or service charges; it is for 
rentcharges. I think it might assist if I explain what a rentcharge is.
A rentcharge (or chief rent as it can also be known) was, prior to the Rentcharges Act 1977, 
a method used for builders to build developments on land that they did not own without 
paying the landowner or by paying the landowner a reduced price for the land.  The 
landowner would either sell the land at a reduced rate or would permit the development on 
the land and, in return, would take an income from each of homeowners that had purchased 
the properties constructed. The rentcharge is generally a nominal sum, usually just a few 
pounds, collected annually. 
Crucially, a rentcharge should not be confused with ground rent payable on a leasehold 
property, or with service charges collected by the managing agents.
JP confirmed to Santanders solicitors that their clients are the beneficiaries of a Rentcharge 
Deed dated 8 December 1989, and that the rentcharge arising from this is payable by 
Mr and Mrs S. I dont know why Mr and Mrs S werent aware of this, but its something their 
solicitors would or should have drawn to their attention when they purchased the property. 
That was, of course, before Santander was ever involved in the matter.
I understand why Mr and Mrs S are confused, particularly as its been confirmed there are no 
arrears of service charges. JP has also confirmed that ground rent is paid directly to the 
freeholder. But rentcharges are not the same as ground rent or service charges, and if there 
is a rentcharge affecting the property, then Mr and Mrs S are required to pay it.
I think that it would be reasonable for Santander to pay the £502 claimed by JP for 
outstanding rentcharges. This is because the mortgage cant be registered until the 
restriction JP has placed on the title is removed. Without the mortgage being registered, 
Santander would not have a valid legal mortgage over the property, only an equitable one, 
which is not an acceptable situation.
In the circumstances, therefore, Im unable to find Santander has done anything wrong here. 
I hope my explanation of what a rentcharge is has helped Mr and Mrs S to understand the 
position. There is further information available here:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/rentcharges
Alternatively Mr and Mrs S might want to take legal advice, or speak to the solicitor who 
acted for them when they bought the property.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are going through JPs internal complaints process because they 
dispute they owe these rentcharges. Now Ive explained what a rentcharge is (and that it is 
not the same as a service charge), I think this might make it easier for them to resolve the 
matter with JP. 
Santander has said that it wont take any action until it has confirmation that the complaints 
procedure has been exhausted. But I think its reasonable that, if this isnt resolved within 
three months from the date of this decision, that Santander would be reasonably entitled to 
pay the outstanding rentcharges and add the amount paid to the mortgage account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman