DRN-3652416
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Whilst I agree with the investigators opinion I dont think hes considered compensation for
distress and inconvenience or the consequential costs Miss C incurred insuring a car she
couldnt use. Ill therefore explain my thoughts on the complaint and also my thoughts on
those additional matters.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things,
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then
MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the
other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was about
five years old when it was supplied and had already covered about 18,600 miles. So, I think
a reasonable person would expect some limited wear and tear.
When we think about whether a car is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation asks us
to consider whether it has been durable. Im not persuaded this car has been.
The independent engineer has confirmed that the failure of the Electric Motor Electronics
Module (EME) was due to a sudden electrical fault. Hes not been able to identify any cause
of the failure and it was his opinion that the fault wouldnt have been present or developing
when the car was supplied to Miss C.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect such a significant problem in a car after only
about 25,000 miles of driving, even in a car of this age. Whilst I understand that electrical
faults can happen at any time I think its reasonable to expect electrical components to have
been durability tested by a manufacturer and to last longer than this one has. Especially
when the failure of the component means the car battery can no longer charge and the car
cant therefore be driven.
So, I agree with the investigator that this car has not been of satisfactory quality and in those
circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair the
vehicle.
Putting things right
The warranty has covered £5,000 of the costs of the repair but as I think this car was of
unsatisfactory quality MotoNovo should refund the rest and add interest to that amount as
Miss C has been deprived of the money.
Miss C has incurred costs as a consequence of the failure of the car and its only fair that
MotoNovo refund those costs. So, they should refund the towing charge of £605 (the
investigator suggested this was £604 but the evidence provided says £605), the £60 it cost
to move the car from the dealership (the investigator suggested this was £65 but the text
message and statement from Miss C suggest £60) back to Miss Cs home, and the £300 it
cost to return the car to the dealership. Theyll, again, need to add interest to those refunds.
Miss C was without the car from 20 August 2021 until it was returned to her on 25 February
2022. It seems a courtesy car wasnt provided. Whilst its fair that Miss C pays for the use
she had from the car; it is not fair for her to pay finance instalments for the period she didnt
have use of it. Im therefore asking MotoNovo to refund any instalments paid during this
time.
Miss C has also explained that she was paying insurance for the car during the period she
was unable to use it. I think MotoNovo should therefore provide a pro-rata refund of that
insurance. Refunding the portion being paid whilst the car was off the road. Miss C will need
to provide evidence to MotoNovo to demonstrate the payments were made. 
I cant see that our investigator has consider whether it would be fair for MotoNovo to
compensate Miss C for any distress and inconvenience shes experienced. I think there is
evidence of that. Miss C broke down on the motorway and it would have been distressing
and inconvenient to have to arrange recovery. Shes also had to make arrangements for
transportation of the car back to the dealership and a courtesy car hasnt been provided to
keep her mobile. In the circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay her £250 in
compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo
Finance Limited to:
Refund the £2,373.40 that Miss C had to pay to have the car repaired and add 8%
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund the £605 Miss C paid to have the car towed, the £60 she paid to have the car
moved, and the £300 she paid to transport the car back to the dealership. Add 8%
simple interest per year to each of those refunds from the date of payment to the
date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid between 20 August 2021 and the 25 February
2022 in respect of the loss of use Miss C experienced.Provide a pro-rata refund of any insurance Miss C can demonstrate she paid for the
car during the period it was off the road. Add 8% simple interest per year to that
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss C £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C accepted my provisional decision but MotoNovo didnt. They said theyd based their 
findings on the report they had commissioned which had confirmed that the fault would not 
be unexpected on a vehicle of this age and mileage. They said that suggested the car was 
durable and it was unreasonable to ask them to pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience when that had been caused by the warranty companys decision to reject the 
claim.
Ive already explained why I disagree the car was durable. I said:
I dont think a reasonable person would expect such a significant problem in a car after only
about 25,000 miles of driving, even in a car of this age. Whilst I understand that electrical
faults can happen at any time I think its reasonable to expect electrical components to have
been durability tested by a manufacturer and to last longer than this one has. Especially
when the failure of the component means the car battery can no longer charge and the car
cant therefore be driven.
I dont think Ive seen any further evidence that would lead me to change that opinion and as 
I think MotoNovo were responsible for the car not being of satisfactory quality it follows that I 
think theyre also responsible for any costs incurred as a consequence of its failure.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with evidence that has led me to change my provisional decision and 
that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
Refund the £2,373.40 that Miss C had to pay to have the car repaired and add 8%
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund the £605 Miss C paid to have the car towed, the £60 she paid to have the car
moved, and the £300 she paid to transport the car back to the dealership. Add 8%
simple interest per year to each of those refunds from the date of payment to the
date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid between 20 August 2021 and the 25 February
2022 in respect of the loss of use Miss C experienced.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any insurance Miss C can demonstrate she paid for the
car during the period it was off the road. Add 8% simple interest per year to that
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss C £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman