DRN-3925771
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made under an income protection 
policy.
What happened
Miss G has a group income protection policy through her employer. 
The policy had a deferred period of 26 weeks. After this point the policy said that it provided 
Miss G with 50% of her salary, for a period of three years, if she was unable to work 
because of incapacity. Incapacity being defined as Miss G being unable to carry out the 
material and substantial duties of her own occupation due to illness or injury.
Miss G has said that from 24 February 2021 she was unable to carry out the activities 
involved in her occupation, because of her medical situation. So, she was absent from work 
from that point onwards.
And she made a claim under the income protection policy, for her absence since 24 
February 2021, recognising that any claim payment would come after the 26-week deferred 
period.
Miss G explained to Unum that she had been diagnosed with work-related stress and 
anxiety  which was causing a number of symptoms  including chest pains, excessive 
tiredness, inability to focus and concentrate, as well as sleep disturbance. Miss G provided 
medical information from her GP, and reports from an occupational health doctor from her 
employer.
Unum considered Miss Gs claim and declined it, noting that Miss G hadnt met the terms of 
the policy. Unum said that for Miss Gs claim to be accepted, she needed to show that she 
was unable to work due to incapacity. Unum said that Miss G hadnt shown this was case.  
Instead, it said the information showed that Miss Gs absence was work was due to work-
related stress. So, her absence was something that appeared to be situational, rather than a 
condition that had impacted her ability to perform her occupation. 
Miss G didnt agree this was fair. She noted that she was unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation because of mental and physiological impairment, arising 
from mixed depression and anxiety disorder. Miss G said when she had discussed her 
situation with her GP, she had often talked about issues at work being the trigger for her 
situation. But Miss G said that her long-term condition wasnt dependent on work stresses. 
And she felt the medical information evidenced this.
Because Miss G didnt agree with Unums position, she raised a complaint with it. Unums 
position on the matter remained the same. And so, Miss G referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
they considered Unum had acted fairly in deciding that the primary reason for Miss Gs 
absence from work was workplace issues, rather than an illness or injury meant Miss G 
wasnt able to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation. 
Miss G didnt agree. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing from Miss G. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter  and I can understand why. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered 
all information provided to me when coming to my decision. Ive explained the reasoning for 
my decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Unum acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to 
settle Miss Gs claim. 
Ive also reviewed Miss Gs policy which covered her insured occupation this means the 
trade, profession, or general role she was actively undertaking for her employer immediately 
prior to incapacity. For Miss Gs claim to be successful, she needed to show that she was 
unable, by reason of her illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
her insured occupation. Miss Gs occupation is a digital manager. So, Miss G would need to 
show she was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties a digital manager is 
required to do  not just with her employer, but for any firm. 
Ive thought about whether Unum has acted fairly in deciding that Miss G hasnt shown that 
to be the case. And Im satisfied it has acted fairly.
The medical evidence consistently refers to Miss G experiencing work related stress and 
issues at work. GP notes from March 2021, and the reminder of the deferred period say Miss 
Gs diagnosis was physical symptoms related to stress. And throughout the GP notes there 
is discussion of work-related stress continuing. 
An occupational health report in June 2021 also discussed workplace incidents, which led to 
a breakdown in communication and brought about the period of sickness. With Miss G 
considering it untenable to return to work, given the circumstances in the workplace. More 
recently, Miss G has noted shes currently going through the grievance process at her work.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to rely on all of this evidence and conclude that it 
was workplace issues and stress that were causing the absence and not a mental illness of 
such severity that it impacted on Miss Gs ability to perform the material and substantial 
duties of her role. 
Miss G has raised that her first fit note from the doctor was for dizziness, and a fit note in 
2022 was for a mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. And she has said that whilst the 
trigger for anxiety and depression appeared to be workplace stressors, the long-term 
diagnosis is one of a mental illness. Meaning she couldnt carry out the material and substantial duties of her role. But Im satisfied Unum has interpreted the medical information 
fairly when deciding Miss Gs claim. And, in any event, this fit note was issued many months 
after the deferred period had ended. So, I dont require it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Unum Ltd to do anything 
more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman