DRN-3126905
The complaint
Mr G complains that Target Servicing Limited failed to collect a monthly management fee for 
his help to buy shared equity mortgage, and then required him to make up the missed 
payments.
What happened
Mr G took out a shared equity loan using the help to buy scheme in 2017. His loan is 
managed by Target.
In May 2021, Target wrote to Mr G saying that there was a monthly loan management fee of 
£1. It had not been collected since 2017 as the result of an error. Target asked Mr G to pay 
the missed fees over the three and half years since the loan was taken out, and said it would 
collect the fee monthly from now on.
Mr G complained. He didnt think it was fair that he had to pay the fees that had been missed 
because Target had failed to collect them. And he didnt think it was fair to charge him a fee 
for managing his loan  when the management of it was so poor Target hadnt even noticed 
it wasnt being paid.
Target didnt uphold his complaint. It said that a direct debit should have been set up to 
collect the fee when Mr G took his loan out. And it said that it should have realised that there 
was no direct debit when it set the loan up on its systems and contacted him at that point. 
However, it said, the fee was payable under the terms and conditions of the loan, and so 
Mr G would need to make up the missed payments now. It said it considered him to be in 
arrears. 
Our investigator said that Target had not acted fairly in failing to collect the fee, and should 
waive the accrued fees. But he said it was entitled to charge the fee going forwards. 
Target did not agree. It accepted it has made an error in not collecting the fee. But it said the 
fees were due and would need to be paid. It said it was Mr Gs responsibility to make sure 
he was complying with the terms and conditions of the loan  including paying all fees due. 
He should have contacted Target to ask why it was not collecting the fee. Target asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme lending a share of the purchase price to 
help people buy homes. Its a second charge loan that sits alongside the main mortgage.
The lender is a government agency, and the lender and the loan are both unregulated. 
However, the lender has appointed Target to administer the loan  and in doing so, Target is 
carrying out a regulated activity which falls within my jurisdiction. Im therefore satisfied that 
this complaint  about how Target has managed the loan and collected (or failed to collect) 
payments due under it  falls within my jurisdiction.
The monthly fee is governed by the terms and conditions. Clause 4 of the terms and 
conditions says that Mr G must pay the management fee from the management fee 
commencement date by direct debit on the first day of each month. The terms and 
conditions say the management fee is £1 per month, and the management fee 
commencement date is the first day of the month following the month in which the loan 
begins.
Therefore, under the terms and conditions Mr G is required to pay the management fee and 
has been required to pay it since the month following the start of the loan. And under clause 
5, if he fails to do so, the lender can then serve a default notice on him. 
I can see that Mr G signed a direct debit form in favour of Target on 17 November 2017, 
when he took the loan out. The direct debit form is included with the loan agreement pack, a 
copy of which was sent to us by Target. So its not clear why Target has maintained that no 
direct debit form was completed  when it clearly was.
Im therefore satisfied that Target is at fault here. The payment was due. Mr G completed a 
direct debit form, as required under the terms. Ive seen no suggestion that he was unable or 
unwilling to pay the £1 monthly fee  the fact is that, due to administrative failings on its part, 
Target failed to collect the fee from him. Had Target tried to collect it via the direct debit it 
should have set up, the fee would have been paid from the start.
Our approach to mortgage underfunding is well established and well known. Its set out on 
our website, and its something I would expect Target to be aware of.
In my view, this is a case of underfunding. There was a sum due under the terms and 
conditions. Mr G was able to pay it, and had complied with his obligations to ensure that it 
could be collected from him. Because of its own error, Target failed to collect it. It has 
instead added it to the outstanding balance of his loan, which has increased as a result. 
Targets failure has resulted in Mr G not paying a sum due, and his balance increasing as a 
result.
I dont agree with Target that it was Mr Gs responsibility to pro-actively contact Target to 
draw Targets error to its attention. Mr G had signed a direct debit form, as he was required 
to do, and was entitled to expect that as the administrator of his loan, Target would 
administer it in line with the terms and conditions and ensure any payments due would be 
collected. It failed to do that. And given the amount of the fee, its unsurprising that Mr G 
didnt notice that it wasnt being collected. 
Im therefore satisfied that its fair and reasonable to say that Target should be responsible 
for the missed payments until this issue came to light. Once the issue came to light, it could 
then have set up the direct debit Mr G signed in 2017. It didnt do that, but it did contact Mr G 
and ask him to complete a new one. Once it drew the error to Mr Gs attention, its 
reasonable to charge him the payments from then on  as Mr G expects.
Putting things right
Applying our established approach to underfunding, and my view of whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that its fair to require Target to write off the 
management fees it failed to collect until the error came to light  for the first 41 months of 
the loan. Thereafter, its reasonable to expect Mr G to pay the monthly fee.Mr G recently told our investigator that he was contemplating repaying his loan. If, by the 
time he accepts this decision (if he does), the loan is still outstanding, then Target should 
remove the first 41 months of payments from the loan balance and waive the right to collect 
those fees. And if the loan remains outstanding, Mr G will need to agree with Target how the 
remaining outstanding fees are to be paid, and how future fees are to be collected.
If, on the other hand, Mr G has redeemed the loan including the first 41 months of payments 
added to the balance, Target should refund those fees to him, adding simple annual interest 
of 8% running from the date the loan was redeemed to the date it makes payment. Interest is 
not required prior to redemption, as Mr Gs loan has not yet entered the period five years 
after completion when interest starts to become payable on the loan balance.
Target should not treat Mr G as in arrears in respect of the outstanding fees. If it has 
reported any adverse information to Mr Gs credit files in respect of the first 41 months of 
missed fees, that information should be removed. If the loan remains outstanding, any 
adverse information in respect of later fees should also be removed provided Mr G pays the 
remaining fees within 28 days of accepting this decision. If the loan has been redeemed, all 
adverse information should be removed..
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to do whichever of the following is applicable:
If the loan remains outstanding, waive the first 41 months of fees and remove £41 
from the loan balance; or
If the loan has been repaid, pay Mr G £41 plus simple annual interest of 8%* running 
from date of redemption to date of payment.
In addition, Target should correct Mr Gs credit file (if it has reported any information to it) as 
Ive set out above. 
* If the second option applies, Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award, as HMRC requires, but should tell Mr G what it has deducted so he can reclaim the tax if he is 
entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman