DRN-4242196
The complaint
Mrs A complains Santander UK plc hasnt refunded transactions that she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs A has been a customer of Santander for many years. She has two accounts in her name 
 a current account and a savings account  and a mobile phone registered with Santander. 
On 16 September 2022 Mrs A called Santander to say that two payments had left her 
accounts that she hadnt made  a £1,500 payment from her current account and a £2,000 
payment from her savings account. Mrs A said she was at the gym at the time and that shed 
left her phone locked up in one of the gyms lockers. In other words, Mrs A disputed the 
payments and asked for them to be refunded.
Santander says it contacted the banks the disputed payments were sent to in an attempt to 
recover them. Santander says it did so straightaway  before it had carried out a proper 
investigation  but that almost all of the money had gone by the time it did so, meaning it 
recovered less than £5. Santander says that it then carried out a proper investigation and, 
having done so, decided that Mrs A should be held liable for the payments. Santander says 
the disputed payments were carried out using a device that had been used for undisputed 
transactions and had been authenticated using Mrs As mobile phone. 
Mrs A complained to Santander saying that it should have picked up the disputed payments 
as they were unusual and should have alerted her. She also said that she hadnt shared her 
details with anyone, hadnt received any one-time passcodes and hadnt heard of the people 
to whom the money had been sent. Santander looked into Mrs As complaint. Having done 
so, it said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mrs A was unhappy with 
Santanders response and complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint and said that they didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly. They said that the evidence showed the disputed payments 
had been authenticated using Mrs As registered device and that there was no plausible 
explanation as to how an unknown third party could have unlocked her phone or accessed 
her banking security details in order to authenticate the payments.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator saying that Santander had recovered some of her 
money so the other banks involved must have agreed the transactions were fraudulent. She 
also said that the whole experience had caused her a lot of emotional trauma, and meant 
shed been unable to support members of her family who rely on her. Mrs A asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Her complaint was, as a result, passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs A is unhappy about the way Santander handled her disputed transactions. 
Shes said that Santander should have alerted her because the disputed transactions were 
unusual, that the other banks must have agreed they were fraudulent as they refunded what 
was left and that everyone knows that fraudsters are able to hack accounts and take money.
Im satisfied that neither of the transactions triggered Santanders systems because of their 
size and nature. And I dont think this was unreasonable. Im also satisfied that Santander 
contacted the two receiving banks before it had investigated the disputed transactions in 
detail. Santander did so because in cases involving fraud money is often moved on quickly. 
In other words, Santander contacted the receiving banks at the earliest opportunity. So, I 
dont agree that Santanders actions, or necessarily the receiving banks actions, show that 
these transactions must have been fraudulent as Mrs A has said. In this case, what is key is 
the way in which these transactions were done.
The evidence Ive seen from Santander shows that both of the disputed payments were 
made on the mobile phone that Mrs A normally uses to transact. It also shows that one-time 
passcodes were sent to authenticate these payments.
Mrs A told Santander and us that her mobile phone has a pattern lock and at the time that it 
was locked in a locker at a gym she was at that morning. I can see that Mrs A told Santander 
that no-one else knew her pattern lock and she hasnt shared any of her details with anyone.
I dont think it was unfair of Santander to hold Mrs A liable in the circumstances, particularly 
given that Mrs A had told Santander that no-one else had access to her mobile phone or 
knew her pattern lock. In other words, there was no evidence Mrs As details had been 
compromised. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Santander didnt act 
unfairly when it decided to hold Mrs A liable for these transactions.
I note that Mrs A told both Santander and us that she was at the gym from 8.50am to 
10.25am and that the payments took place whilst she was at the gym. In fact, I can see from 
the evidence that Santander has sent that the first payment was authenticated at 10:32am 
and the second payment was authenticated at 10:37am. In other words, these payments 
appear to have been made after shed finished at the gym.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman