DRN-2947739
The complaint
Mr C complains that esure Insurance Limited declined a claim for damage to his windscreen 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has car insurance with esure. In March 2021, Mr Cs car failed its MOT due to a crack 
in the windscreen. Mr C made a claim and asked esure to pay for the required repair to his 
windscreen.
esure declined the claim. They said Mr Cs was a third party, fire and theft policy and didnt 
cover damage to his own car or damage to his windscreen specifically.
Mr C complained to esure. He said when he went to the on-line portal to view his policy, 
details of various excesses in the policy were listed  including an excess for windscreen 
damage. He thought the only explanation of this was that he was in fact covered for 
windscreen damage.
esure told Mr C their decision to decline the claim was correct  he only had a third party, fire 
and theft policy. So, Mr C brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think esure had done anything wrong. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C does in fact have a third party, fire and theft policy with esure. Thats what hes paid 
premiums for. His premiums are smaller because he doesnt have cover for damage to his 
own car (other than that caused by fire or theft) and/or windscreen cover.
Both of those options were available when Mr C bought the policy. He chose not to include 
them. 
The fact that Mr Cs policy doesnt include cover for windscreen damage is set out in the 
policy schedule sent to him when he first bought the policy - and at renewal. The welcome 
letter and renewal letter sent to Mr C tell him to check his schedule to see what cover he 
has. 
The scope of the cover is also clear in the quotation sent to Mr C before he bought the 
policy.
Its also set out in the policy booklet, which Mr C was sent at the outset (and has been 
available to him throughout). And in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), 
which sets out the cover Mr C has bought.
It appears that when Mr C accessed information about his policy through the portal, he did  
as he says  see a list of different excesses which might apply to esure policies. This did 
include a windscreen excess.
However, that list was generic  it applied to all esure policies and options, not specifically to 
Mr Cs policy. Im satisfied that should have been clear to Mr C. All the more so because 
underneath that list theres a note advising customers to check their schedules for more 
detailed information. 
In short, Mr C doesnt have cover for damage to his windscreen. He hasnt paid for it and he 
doesnt have it. And that was  or should have been  absolutely clear to him when he 
bought the policy, when he renewed it and at any time that he chose to access his policy 
documents through esures on-line portal.
That being the case, its not unfair or unreasonable for esure to decline Mr Cs claim for 
repair of his windscreen damage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman