DRN-2942949
The complaint
Mrs K complains Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) did not notify her that her
Individual Savings Account (ISA) was maturing on 24 January 2020.
What happened
Mrs K believes she lost out the opportunity to invest in other accounts which offered higher
rates of return. She is also unhappy with her account being moved into a variable rate e-ISA
account, as Virgin Money could have offered a better rate.
When Mrs K complained to Virgin Money in April 2020, she was promised a call back within
a certain amount of time. This didnt happen. In its final response letter Virgin Money paid
Mrs K £50 for failing to call her back when it said it would. But otherwise didnt think it had
done anything wrong.
Virgin Money has said it sent Mrs K an e-mail on 13 January 2020 advising of the maturity
date. It says the e-mail was successfully delivered but not opened. Virgin Money also sent a
letter to the address it held on file for Mrs K as at 16 January 2020. Unfortunately, this was
sent to an old address of Mrs K. Mrs K informed Virgin Money she had moved to a new
house on 20 February 2020. 
Virgin Money has also provided the Key Product Information document given to Mrs K when 
she opened the account which referenced the maturity date and the fact that the account 
would move to a variable rate cash ISA from them on.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the compensation
paid by Virgin Money was fair for not calling back as promised and that other than the
missed call he couldnt say Virgin Money had done anything wrong.
Mrs K and her representative, Mr K, didnt agree. They said they felt the investigator had
failed to address or overlooked many of their points, his assessment was one-sided and
unfair; and he had made an error when referring to the maturity date of the ISA, referring to it
maturing in February rather than January. They thought this later error was important as
their complaint relates to the adequacy of notification. They regard the complaint about the
failure to return a phone call as settled and not a substantive part of the complaint.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind.
Mr and Mrs K remained unsatisfied. They said that they thought the error made by the
investigator was important as presumably he used a timescale to assess the adequacy of
Virgin Money's notifications. The investigators error extended the perceived time from 11
days to 42 days, nearly four times the interval. They still felt the investigator hadnt 
addressed many of the numerous issues they referred to in their original complaint. 
The investigator responded to each of the questions to explain why he didnt think the
complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view. Mr K also said that he had been told by a
member of staff at Virgin Money that when a customer has requested no marketing
information be sent Virgin Money doesnt send out administration emails but its system notes
this as a fault with the customer's email.
When I first looked at the complaint, I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I did intend to
refer to the rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (BCOBS) and as these hadnt previously been referred to, I wanted to give
Mr and Mrs K a chance to respond so I asked the investigator to email them to let them
know my thinking.
Mr and Mrs K responded to say that:
All other financial institutions they have dealt with give notice weeks and months in 
advance of a significant event
Virgin Money in its terms and conditions committed to give them 14 days notice and 
the letter Virgin Money sent didnt give that notice as it was sent to arrive on 16 or 17 
January
They are convinced Virgin Moneys communication particularly emails are grossly 
inadequate
They dont feel all their points have been addressed
They feel Virgin Money says and write things which are not true
They say Virgin Money know their emails are not getting through and do nothing 
about it
I asked the investigator to mediate with Virgin Money regarding the clause in its terms and
conditions which Mr and Mrs K referred to which they think means Virgin Money needed to
give them 14 days notice of the maturity of the account. I also asked Virgin Money to
confirm if it had a known problem with all emails not being sent out to customers where
customers have opted out of marketing communication.
Virgin Money said that the clause Mr and Mrs K referred to wasnt for accounts that were
maturing but for accounts with variable rates that were changing. It also said its not correct
that it doesnt send emails to marketing opt out customers. It doesnt send marketing emails
if they have opted out, but regulatory emails are still sent because a customer cannot opt out
of these.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision to respond to Mr Ks points. Mr K had said we havent 
addressed all his points. I explained the ombudsman service is an informal dispute 
resolution service and so we try to look at the heart of the complaint and dont
necessarily respond to every single comment. I said I had, however, considered everything 
they had said and, subject to any further comments by either party, I was satisfied that not
upholding this complaint was a fair outcome.
I said I could understand Mr and Mrs Ks frustration. It must have been really disappointing 
to miss out on better rates because they didnt realise the account had matured. But for me 
to hold Virgin Money responsible I had to find that it had done something wrong and this 
caused Mrs K to lose out.
I said I could see why Mr and Mrs K feel that the clause they refer to means that Virgin 
Money should have given them 14 days notice of the maturity of the account. I agreed with
Virgin Money that the clause is for variable rate accounts where the rate changes. But as I
thought Mr and Mrs Ks interpretation is arguable, I considered what the outcome would be ifthe clause applied to fixed rate products which were maturing. I didnt think the outcome
would be any different. This was because if a bank doesnt do something it should have 
done, we look to put the customer in the position they would have been in if the bank had 
done what it should have done. And in this case, I thought even if Virgin Money had sent the 
letter a few days earlier they still would not have received it because they had moved to a 
new house and their post wasnt being redirected.
Virgin Money had provided evidence it sent a letter to Mrs K the week before her fixed rate 
ISAs term was coming to an end. I noted under BCOBS a bank is required to provide notice 
of the expiry of the fixed term of a fixed term savings account to its customer on paper or in 
another durable medium in good time before the end of the fixed term. Virgin sent the letter 
to the address it held for Mrs K with the expectation that it would arrive on 16 or 17 January 
2020. I understood that Mr and Mrs K feel that she should have been given more notice. But, 
from what I had seen, even if Virgin Money had given the one- or two-months notice to Mrs 
K it wouldnt have helped her as she didnt live at the address Virgin Money held for her. And 
again, I couldnt hold Virgin Money responsible for that as its Mrs Ks responsibility to tell 
Virgin Money she has moved.
I said I appreciated the points Mr K has made about emails. But even if I accepted that Virgin 
Money didnt send an email to Mrs K I was not persuaded that Virgin Money didnt treat her 
fairly. I thought if she had told it she had moved she would have received notice before the 
account expired, and I thought she would have acted to move to a product which best suited 
her. I therefore did not intend to uphold the complaint.
I noted Mr and Mrs K were also unhappy with the account that Virgin Money moved Mrs Ks 
balance to. I said I was satisfied that Virgin Money complied with the terms and conditions of 
the account when the account became a variable rate cash ISA.
Responses to my provisional decision
Virgin Money had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs K did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to consider anything further, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision and confirm it here now.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman