DRN-4080586
The complaint
Mr J complains, jointly in his name and as representative of the estate of his wife, Mrs J, 
about the suitability of investment advice received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Mr J and the estate are represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In May 2000 Mr and Mrs J were advised to invest in a Barclays Personal Investment 
Management portfolio (BPIM).  
The adviser recorded in the fact find document completed as part of the advice process that 
Mr J had received a substantial lump sum as a result of an industrial injury and that he and 
Mrs J wanted to invest for both income and growth over the longer term.
The couple had a total of £360,000 available. £53,000 of this was earmarked for immediate 
expenditure, including paying off their mortgage, and it was noted they wanted £37,000 as 
an emergency fund, leaving the balance of £270,000 to invest in the BPIM. At the time of the 
advice, as a result of his injury, Mr J was not working and was in receipt of benefits. 
Mrs J was working, and they had a monthly disposable income of £270. 
Their attitude to risk was categorised as medium in both the fact find and the application for 
the BPIM and a portfolio consistent with this level of risk was duly set up for them.   
Over the next few years several lump sum withdrawals, totalling £28,000, were taken from 
the investment, and it was surrendered completely for just over £185,000 in November 2007. 
A complaint about the suitability of the advice was made in 2019. Barclays said the concerns 
had been raised too late and the matter was referred to this service. An ombudsman decided 
the complaint had in fact been referred it time, so an investigator looked into the merits. 
She concluded the advice to invest at a medium level of risk had been unsuitable given Mr 
and Mrs Js personal and financial circumstances. But Barclays didnt accept this. It 
maintained its view that the complaint had been made too late and, in respect of the merits, 
said that investing for the long term for income and growth had been suitable in the 
circumstances, the amount invested was reasonable, and Mr and Mrs J had agreed to take a 
medium level of risk. As such, it wouldve been unsuitable for them to have been put into a 
cautious portfolio as the investigator had suggested shouldve been the case.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, Barclays remains of the view that the complaint has been referred too late and is 
outside our jurisdiction. My colleague has previously decided this service does have 
jurisdiction to consider the merits of the complaint. So, while Ive noted Barclays additional 
comments, as no new evidence has become available that in my view changes that position, 
Ill wont offer any further comment in respect of jurisdiction and will instead go on to 
consider the merits of the complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs J were in a position to make some sort of investment. 
They had a substantial amount of money available once all immediate needs had been 
addressed and a healthy sum put aside for emergencies. And it seems reasonable, 
particularly given the source of the monies, that they would want to invest for a mix of growth 
and income.
The crux of the matter is therefore whether they shouldve been advised to make that 
investment into a medium risk portfolio. Was that level of risk suitable for their objectives, 
needs and circumstances? 
That categorisation was clearly selected on the fact find and the application form. So, it 
seems likely some discussion took place concerning risk. But, despite there being ample 
opportunity for this selection to have been explained within notes in the documentation, the 
only reference to it is a comment Clients should invest a lump sum in line with their 
objectives/risk attitude, where Mr and Mrs Js objective, noted elsewhere in the fact find, 
was to invest for both income and growth over the longer term.
Barclays have noted the medium risk level to be Mr and Mrs Js own risk tolerance, which 
suggests it was something they determined for themselves. But ultimately it was for the 
adviser to determine what would be a suitable level of risk. Mr and Mrs J may have insisted 
they were medium, although this seems unlikely. But even if they did, the adviser shouldve 
considered whether taking a medium risk with such a large amount of money was suitable. 
And given Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, I cant see how on a scale of risk averse  
cautious risk  medium risk  high risk, its likely medium risk was suitable for them. Mr and 
Mrs J had no investment experience. The money came from compensation for Mr Js work-
related injury. His future working capability was uncertain, and he was in receipt of benefits 
as a result. 
Mr and Mrs J already had a monthly disposable income of £270 (and its not clear whether 
this took account mortgage payments that were about cease). Even if Mr Js monthly 
benefits of £670 had reduced as a result of receiving the large lump sum, the couple 
wouldve still been able to obtain a reasonable return from the money even at a cautious 
level of risk. And in such circumstances, it wouldve been even more important that the lump 
sum on which they were reliant upon wasnt subject to the risk of a significant loss. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded it was suitable advice for Mr and Mrs J to invest in the 
BPIM at a medium level risk. Im satisfied the compensation suggested by the investigator  
based on a cautious level of risk being suitable  represents fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mr J and 
the estate as close to the position he would probably now be in if he and Mrs J had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view Mr and Mrs J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he and Mrs J would have done differently. But I am satisfied what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs J's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr J and the estate fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs J's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
BPIM No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Barclays should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs J wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs J's risk profile was in between, in the sense they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean Mr 
and Mrs J would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs J could have obtained from 
investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and the 
estate of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman