DRN-2077016
The complaint
Miss P complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited and their valuation of her car 
after it was deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss P was involved in a road traffic accident. She contacted Admiral to 
make a claim on her motor insurance policy. After obtaining an estimate on the cost to repair 
Miss Ps car, Admiral deemed it to be beyond economical repair.
So, Admiral offered Miss P a settlement payment of £3,950, less her excess. Miss P was 
unhappy with this amount as she didnt think it allowed her to purchase a similar car of a 
similar condition. So, she raised a complaint.
Miss P was unhappy with Admirals valuation of her car. Shed found the same car of a 
similar age and condition for sale at £5,299. So, she didnt think settlement amount shed 
been offered placed her back in the position she wouldve been had the accident not 
happened. And she thought this is what her insurance policy was designed to do. So, Miss P 
wanted Admiral to pay her the £5,299 that would allow her to purchase a new car.
Admiral didnt agree. They thought theyd valued Miss Ps car in line with industry guidelines 
and had offered her the top book price, meaning the most expensive out of the three 
valuations theyd found. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer 
anything more. Miss P remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Admiral had 
provided a settlement payment that was fair and in line with its market value. And that it had 
been offered within the terms of Miss Ps policy. Although hed found another motor trade 
guide valuing the car at £4,296, he thought the settlement offer remained fair as it fell within 
the range of valuations provided. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Miss P didnt agree. She explained Admiral had initially said they couldnt increase the 
settlement payment of £3,950 as it was the top book price. As our investigator had found 
another valuation for more, she explained shed accept the valuation of £4,296 to resolve the 
complaint. But our investigator replied explaining he didnt think it would be fair to 
recommend Admiral pay this as they had no obligation to offer the top book price. As Miss P 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
First, I want to recognise the difficulties Miss P faced after contacting Admiral to utilise her 
insurance policy. I appreciate this wouldve been a stressful situation where she was without 
a car for a period of time. And I can understand her upset when she was unable to find what 
she feels is a suitable replacement car with the settlement amount she was offered by 
Admiral. But for me to say Admiral have done something wrong, Id have to be sure theyve 
valued her car unfairly. To be sure of this, Id need to see that theyve failed to follow industry 
guidelines or acted outside of the policy terms and conditions. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Miss Ps policy explains that, where a car is deemed beyond economical repairs, Admiral 
would pay a cash sum to settle the claim. It explains that the most they would pay is market 
value, which is defined as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term 'market' in
which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if you bought 
your car privately or at an auction.
In order to calculate this market value, Admiral used three separate motor trade guides. 
These guides offer an independent valuation which considers several factors, including the 
condition of the car at the time, the mileage and the nationwide selling value. They 
generated three valuations which were £3,950, £2,725 and £3,575. And Admiral offered 
Miss P the top book price of £3,950, less the excess she needed to pay.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Admiral valued Miss Ps car unfairly. They 
followed industry guidelines by using the independent motor trade guides to obtain several 
valuations. This is what Id expect them to do. And they then offered Miss P the highest 
valuation out of the three they obtained, which they had no obligation to do. I think this 
shows Admiral acting in good faith and Miss Ps best interests.
But I understand Miss P doesnt agree with these valuations and provided a screenshot of a 
car she found that was being retailed for £5,299. And I can understand why because of this, 
she feels the valuation is unfair. But when we assess valuations of cars, we would always 
look to place more weight on the valuation placed by the independent motor trade guides. 
This is because retail prices found online can be impacted by slight differences in mileage, 
model type and even location. Plus, retailers will usually be looking to sell the cars on at a 
profit so the price advertised can be increased because of this. So, I cant say Admiral have 
acted unfairly by not increasing the settlement amount when Miss P provided this 
information.
Ive also considered the fourth motor trade guide valuation which was found by our 
investigator. This valued Miss Ps car at £4,296, higher than the settlement amount Admiral 
provided. I understand Miss P was told by Admiral they couldnt increase their original offer 
as it was the top book price. So, as a new valuation prices has been found, she thinks it 
would be fair to increase it. Although Ive seen no evidence to show Admiral made this 
statement, I dont think it affects the fairness of their original settlement offer. 
Admiral have no obligation to offer the highest valuation they find. And these valuations are 
guide prices, calculated on several factors. What Id expect to see is that the settlement 
amount they paid Miss P falls reasonably in line with the valuations they found. And in this 
case, Ive considered the higher three valuations found as the lowest looks to be 
unreasonably low. When I considered the three higher amounts, I think the £3,950 Admiral is 
a fair average of the three. So again, I dont think Admiral have acted unreasonably or 
valued Miss Ps car unfairly.I understand this isnt the outcome Miss P was hoping for. And I can appreciate her 
frustration and not being able to find a car she feels is suitable for the amount Admiral have 
paid. But I dont think this is as a result of any error Admiral has made. Theyve valued her 
car following industry guidelines using the motor trade guides we use ourselves when 
determining if a valuation is fair. And when doing so, theyve offered Miss P a settlement 
amount that falls within the averages of these guides. And by doing so, theyve settled Miss 
Ps claim as a cash sum, which the policy allows them to do when a car is deemed beyond 
economical repair. Because of this, I dont think Admiral need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlines above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman