DRN-3414572
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the outcome of a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 made to Bank of Scotland plc.
What happened
In 2017 Mr S purchased a sofa from a supplier and paid using his Bank of Scotland credit 
card. The cost of the sofa was £1290.
After around 3  years Mr S experienced an issue with the sofa springs and one of the seats 
collapsed. The supplier was no longer trading so Mr S raised a section 75 claim with Bank of 
Scotland.
Bank of Scotland requested an independent inspection report. The inspector concluded that 
there was a manufacturing fault with the springs on one of the seats and recommended 
repairs to a single seat unit.
Bank of Scotland accepted the section 75 claim and offered to refund the cost of repair 
(£216) plus the cost of the inspection report (£48). It paid Mr S £264 in settlement of the 
section 75 claim.
Mr S complained to Bank of Scotland. He was unhappy with the outcome and felt he should 
be reimbursed the full cost of the sofa.
Bank of Scotland declined Mr Ss request. It said the sofa was almost 4 years old and that 
Mr S had enjoyed the use of it during that time. It also said that the independent report 
confirmed that the damage was to one seat only and that it could be repaired.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because Mr S had enjoyed the use 
of the sofa for 3  years, it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to make a deduction for fair 
usage from the refund expected.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the sofa was faulty when it was purchased because a few months 
afterwards hed had to get someone to look at it because the recliner lock was loose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Bank of Scotlands response to the claim under 
section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr S hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ill focus on whether theres been 
a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. If they 
arent, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the inspection report. Theres no dispute that 
the springs in one of the seats are faulty due to a manufacturing defect. This means that the 
sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality and that theres been a breach of contract.
The real issue here is whether Bank of Scotlands offer to meet the costs of repair is fair and 
reasonable. Mr S has said it isnt fair, because hes been supplied with a faulty sofa. Bank of 
Scotland relies on the independent report which says that only one seat is affected by the 
fault and that this can be repaired.
Ive thought about whether the fault with the sofa warrants rejection. Rejection would mean 
that the sofa was returned and a refund paid to Mr S for the purchase price, less a deduction 
for use of the sofa.
Ive considered the contents of the inspection report. This says that the seat can be repaired. 
In circumstances where a breach of contract can be remedied by a repair, I wouldnt 
recommend a rejection. So, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to allow Mr S to reject the 
sofa.
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that the fault can be repaired. In the circumstances I 
think Bank of Scotlands offer to refund the costs of repair is fair, and that its response to the 
section 75 claim was reasonable. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman