DRN-2215089
The complaint
Mrs and Mrs E say they wanted one mortgage, not two seperate accounts, on their 
Santander UK Plc mortgage.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs and Mrs E were moving house and ported an existing Santander mortgage 
product. That rate was fixed at 4.59% until 2 October 2019. They needed to borrow more 
money for the purchase, and that extra borrowing was put on a fixed rate of 2.34% until 
2 August 2018.
When the top-up fixed rate on the second sub-account came to an end in August 2018, 
Mrs and Mrs E opted to move that part of their mortgage onto a rate that tracked at 3.25% 
above the Bank of England base rate. That rate was chosen as it had no early repayment 
charge (ERC) so then the whole mortgage could be rearranged when the fixed rate on the 
first sub-account came to an end in October 2019.
In October 2019 Mrs and Mrs E moved both sub-accounts to new rate which is fixed at 
1.89%.
Unhappy that they still had two sub-accounts Mrs and Mrs E complained to Santander. They 
said theyd been told in branch in May/June 2016 that their sub-accounts would be combined 
into one mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. Mrs and Mrs E didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs and Mrs E wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Mrs and Mrs E have said they wanted one mortgage and thats what theyve got. A mortgage 
account can be made up of multiple sub-accounts, but thats still one mortgage.
Unfortunately weve not got a contemporaneous record of exactly what was said in branch in 
2016. I can only think there has been some confusion over terminology as Mrs and Mrs E 
could never have achieved what they say they specifically wanted, which was just one 
sub-account. Id expect a branch mortgage adviser to be aware of that, so it may be they 
were talking at cross-purposes, with Mrs and Mrs E meaning one sub-account, but the 
adviser meaning one mortgage product (but still two sub-accounts, just them both being on 
the same product).
The 2018 call (when the tracker was taken out) doesnt imply the two sub-accounts could be 
merged into one sub-account, instead I think it implies the opposite. When asked why shes 
interested in a tracker rate, Mrs E said I believe thats the best option available to me so that 
I can tie both of the mortgages loan 1 and 2 together at some point in the future. To which 
the adviser replied Thats right, cos you wanted to marry them up and tie them up.
The language tie them up or tie them together implies there will still be two sub-accounts, 
just on the same product, otherwise surely the word used would have been merged or 
combined.
The adviser later said, when making her recommendation Youre looking to tie both loans in 
on the same interest rate, so youre happy to look at a product that doesnt have any 
restrictions or penalties to come out of it. That again says the later taking of the same 
interest rate would be on both loans; that is, there will still be two sub-accounts. Mrs E 
agreed to that recommendation. Had she said something in that call about her 
understanding of how things would work then the adviser could have corrected the 
misunderstanding. But Mrs E said nothing so Santander wasnt on notice of the issue. 
In any event, its not clear what difference Mrs and Mrs E think one sub-account will give 
them from what theyve got, which is two sub-accounts that are on the same rate and have 
the same mortgage term, so in effect are running as if it was just one sub-account. If 
everything had been able to be incorporated into one sub-account the monthly payment 
would stay the same as it is now, so there would be no discernable difference to 
Mrs and Mrs E.
Mrs and Mrs E have said I simply wanted one mortgage for ease of administration... but 
theres no difference in administration on Mrs and Mrs Es part between having one 
sub-account or two sub-accounts if both sub-accounts are on the same mortgage product, 
as they are here.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Mrs and Mrs E are in broadly the position that 
they wanted to be, which is for their entire mortgage to be on the same product. Im satisfied 
the fact it is still two sub-accounts doesnt cause Mrs and Mrs E any undue incovenience or 
extra administration over and above theyd be caused if it was just one sub-account. For that 
reason I simply cant uphold their complaint, however much they might want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman