DRN-4381798
The complaint
Ms C complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly terminated her loan account 
which means shes no longer eligible for deferment or to have the balance written off. 
What happened
Ms C took three loans with the Student Loan Company between 1994 and 1997. The loans 
are administered by Erudio. Ms C lives abroad and has her address, email address and 
phone number registered with Erudio. 
Ms Cs explained that she has successfully completed regular deferment applications each 
year. Ms C adds that since 2018 she has completed the deferment process online after 
receiving email reminders from Erudio. Erudio issued email reminders to Ms C to complete 
the deferment application since 2017. In the summer of 2020 Erudio sent an email reminder 
to complete the deferment application to Ms C. The deferment application was subsequently 
approved, ending in September 2021. 
Erudio has explained that in 2021 it stopped sending email reminders to customers but 
continued to issue deferment correspondence by letter. Erudio wrote to Ms C in July and 
August 2021 to remind her to complete a deferment application. When no deferment 
application was received by the end of the existing period payments became due. Erudio 
then sent arrears letters to Ms C in the post. A default notice was issued on 23 December 
2021 and a termination notice was sent on 21 January 2022 when no contact was received. 
The loans were terminated by Erudio which meant the full balance became due and Ms C no 
longer qualified for deferment or write off after 25 years. 
Ms C has explained that she didnt receive any letters from Erudio from the summer of 2021 
onwards. And Ms C has explained that she had become accustomed to annual email 
requests for a deferment application to be sent by Erudio. Ms C says that as no email or 
letter reminders to complete the deferment application were received she didnt realise 
action was required. 
Ms C adds that the first time she became aware of the issue was when she was contacted 
by a firm of debt collectors Ill refer to as C to try and collect the outstanding balance. At that 
point, Ms C was made aware of what had happened and went on to raise a complaint. 
Erudio issued a final response on 12 May 2023 but didnt agree it had made mistakes in 
terms of the deferment process used in 2021. Erudio offered Ms C £25 for previously giving 
an incorrect termination date to Ms C. 
An investigator at this service upheld Ms Cs complaint. They agreed that Ms C had 
reasonably expected Erudio to email her with a deferment reminder as it had done between 
2017 and 2020. The investigator highlighted that Ms C lives abroad and confirmed she has 
experienced problems receiving post. The investigator asked Erudio to reinstate Ms Cs loan 
and assess whether she was eligible for deferment based on her income at the time. 
Erudio didnt agree and said its not obliged to send emails with deferment reminders. Erudio 
added that it supplied evidence it had written to Ms Cs address in 2021 before terminating 
her student loans. Erudio also said it had left an answerphone message for Ms C but no 
response was received. As Erudio asked to appeal, Ms Cs case has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I agree with the investigator that in the circumstances of Ms Cs case, shes been treated 
unfairly by Erudio. Ill explain why. I think Ms C makes a reasonable point in that she lives 
abroad and that post from the UK isnt always reliably received. Ms Cs explained that, as a 
result, she had become somewhat reliant on the reminder emails Erudio sent to her each 
year to complete the deferment application. So I can understand why Ms C is confused and 
disappointed that Erudio took the decision to stop sending email reminders to customers 
who use its online system. And that the decision was taken without first advising customers 
the email reminders were being withdrawn. 
Ive looked at the correspondence Erudio sent to Ms C. Whilst Erudio hasnt provided direct 
copies of all its letters, it has provided a copy of its final response. I note the address used 
on the final response, whilst correct in part, lacks important details. The street address, town 
and name of another local town is provided along with a postcode. But the county and 
country in which Ms C lives are both missing from the address Erudio seems to have used. 
Given Erudio knows Ms C lives abroad and the country of her residence, Id expect that to 
be included in the address it writes to. 
I accept that Erudio did write to Ms C as claimed. But Im also satisfied that Ms Cs been 
honest when she says Erudios deferment reminders, arrears letters, default notice and 
termination letter werent received. Like the investigator, I think an email reminder to Ms C in 
2021, before the end of her existing deferment period, wouldve been the fairest approach 
for her. Alternatively, notification that email reminders were being withdrawn wouldve put Ms 
C on notice not to expect one. Whilst I understand Erudio is free to decide how it operates 
and communicates with customers, Im satisfied its decision not to email Ms C with a 
deferment reminder in 2021 has unfairly impacted her. And Im satisfied that if Ms C had 
received an email of that nature, she wouldve made the deferment application online as 
shed done previously. 
In its submissions Erudio has provided a screen shot that it says shows a message was left 
for Ms C to call on 15 November 2021. Ms C has confirmed she has no recollection of 
receiving this answerphone message from Erudio. And whilst I accept the call may have 
been made as claimed, I havent been persuaded that it was sufficient to show the loans 
were fairly defaulted and terminated. The account remained in arrears for several months 
before it was closed. I think Erudio couldve done more than leave a single answerphone 
message in addition to sending letters to Ms C in the circumstances. The investigator recommended that Erudio reinstate Ms Cs loan accounts and allow her to 
complete a deferment application for 2021. I think its a fair approach in terms of how to 
settle Ms Cs case. Im aware that two further years have now passed during which Ms C 
wouldve been able to apply for further deferments. So Erudio will need to ensure deferment 
applications are retrospectively completed to ensure subsequent years are covered and 
assessed. If Erudio has recorded any adverse information on Ms Cs credit file, it should 
remove it as well. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
settle as follows: 
- Erudio to reinstate Ms Cs loans
- Erudio to rewind the loans, removing arears accumulated from the end of the 
deferment period in 2021
- Erudio to allow Ms C to retrospectively apply for deferments for 2021, 2022 and 2023
- If successful, Erudio should confirm this to Ms C and administer her loans 
accordingly
- If the deferment applications arent approved, Erudio should allow Ms C to make 
repayments to the loans in line with the original loan agreements
- Erudio to remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman