DRN-4236895
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with his boiler under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Aviva carried out a Basic Health Check on Mr Ss boiler. The engineer told Mr S the boiler 
wasnt operating to the required pressure and issued a warning notice. Mr S had work 
carried out on the boiler to address the issue and also complained to Aviva as he said the 
work was unnecessary, as the boiler pressure was within the correct range.
When Aviva replied, it said it had checked the standards and the boiler didnt meet these as 
the readings werent within the correct range. It said its engineers diagnosis was correct.
So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Aviva had explained its engineers findings and the standards it worked to and hadnt done 
anything wrong.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When the engineer visited, he carried out a Basic Health Check on the boiler. This included 
taking a reading for the meter operating pressure, which was 20.4mbar, and another reading 
for the inlet pressure at the boiler, which was 14.6mbar. The relevant standards said the 
pressure loss, or difference, between these two readings should be no greater than 1mbar to 
ensure that the appliance operated safely. Aviva later explained that even allowing for 
internal absorption of 1.5mbar and pipework absorption of 1mbar, there was still a shortfall of 
3.3mbar. So, this meant the pressure loss was greater than 1mbar.
Ive read all the evidence and information provided, including the relevant regulations, the 
manufacturers information, the installation documents and the advice Mr S has received 
from other organisations. Im also aware of Mr Ss strong views on this and that he has 
highlighted a number of issues, including the permissible gas flow pressure for the boiler. 
Based on everything Ive seen, in my view, the engineers assessment, including issuing a 
warning notice, was reasonable. Ive seen nothing that persuades me that the readings he 
took were wrong or that he unreasonably applied the relevant regulations and guidance.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman