DRN-3363863
The complaint
Mrs A complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M & S) reported missed 
payments and a default on her credit card account, despite a payment deferral having been 
agreed. 
What happened
Mrs A holds a credit card account with M & S.
Due to the financial impact of the global pandemic, she contacted M & S to request deferral 
of the contractual monthly payments to her account. M & S agreed her request. They 
deferred her payments for three months from May until July 2020. M & S told Mrs A the 
deferred payments wouldnt be reported on her credit file.
Upon expiry of the agreed payment deferral, Mrs A says she applied to M & S again to 
request a further deferral. She believes this was agreed until 27 October 2020, so she didnt 
make any contractual payments. However, she then received letters and calls from M & S 
about the missed payments. Mrs A says she spoke to M & S several times and told them 
she had a payment deferral. She says M & S told her to ignore the letters. But she remained 
concerned as these hadnt been received previously.
In September 2020, having received further letters and calls, Mrs A called M & S. They said 
a further payment deferral wasnt in place. They agreed to consider her application subject to 
completing an income and expenditure analysis. If agreed, they said theyd backdate it. But 
the income and expenditure analysis suggested that Mrs A didnt have sufficient income to 
meet essential bills or to clear any arrears on her account once any payment deferral ended. 
So, they didnt agree her application.
M & S did agree a six month hold on Mrs As account and suspended interest and charges. 
They told Mrs A that if she couldnt bring her account up to date, a default may be registered. 
But they said this was unlikely to happen before the end of the six months.
Mrs A then received letters from M & S to say that a default would be registered. That wasnt 
what shed been told, so she contacted M & S to complain. In M & Ss response, they 
explained why a further payment deferral hadnt been agreed. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. But they did agree theyd misinformed her about when a default might be 
recorded. They apologised and agreed to send her a payment of £125 to recognise the 
confusion caused.
Mrs A wasnt happy with M & Ss response. She thought they shouldve agreed a further 
payment deferral, when requested. She was also unhappy theyd recorded a default, despite 
what shed been told. She said this meant she was unable to secure a re-mortgage and it 
would have a negative financial impact on her. Mrs A wanted M & S to remove the missed 
payments and default recorded on her credit file. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs As complaint. Our adjudicator thought M & S needed 
remove the adverse data reported between July and September 2020. But they thought the 
compensation offered was fair here and didnt think M & S needed to remove the default. 
Mrs A remained unhappy. She wanted M & S to remove the default recorded on her credit 
file.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs As complaint has been referred to me in order to 
reach a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our adjudicator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 February 2022  giving both Mrs A and M & S the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 
which explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional 
circumstances arising out of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking 
businesses to consider payment deferrals of up to three months under regulated 
credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. They said, firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were 
advised to consider freezing or reducing their payments for a further three months.
M & S agreed an initial payment deferral for 3 months and didnt report any missed 
payments for this. Mrs A says shed then applied for a further deferral. I havent seen 
any evidence of this, and I cant see that M & S confirmed it to her in writing. But Im 
persuaded Mrs A believed one was in place. Mrs A said she received multiple calls 
from M & S about the missed payments. On each occasion, she told them she had a 
further payment deferral and M & S told her not to worry about the letters. But at no 
time was she told a deferral wasnt in place. Again, Ive seen no evidence of these 
calls, but equally, M & S havent suggested these calls werent made. So, Im 
persuaded by Mrs As recollection of events.
Ive listened to a call from September 2020 where M & S told Mrs A that a further 
deferral wasnt in place. Mrs A told M & S her income wasnt likely to improve before 
January 2021. She also said her own income was more likely to improve before any 
other sources of household income did. An analysis of her income and expenditure 
was completed, a copy of which Ive seen. It shows Mrs As indebtedness, at the 
time, together with her monthly income and outgoings. It suggests Mrs A had a 
substantial shortfall in her income and was unable to cover her existing commitments 
and essential bills. 
Under the FCAs guidance, M & S needed to consider whether a payment deferral 
was appropriate, particularly where the problems experienced by Mrs A may be more 
than just temporary (i.e. for the period of the deferral). Mrs As credit card statements 
for July through to September show that her balance was close to or in excess of her 
credit limit each month. This coupled with her ongoing income problems suggested a 
longer-term problem. So, M & S decided Mrs A wasnt eligible for a further deferral. I 
think they were entitled to do that here. 
Its important, having identified Mrs As financial problems, that M & S then 
considered her situation with forbearance and due consideration. M & S agreed to 
place a six month hold on her account. This meant no further charges and interest 
would be applied and provided time for Mrs A to review her situation and consider 
alternative proposals. I think this was the right thing to do here.
Accepting this, it appears Mrs A wasnt previously told a further payment deferral 
hadnt been agreed, despite the conversations Mrs A says she had with M & S on multiple occasions. So, I think this misunderstanding couldve been identified by M & 
S sooner and should be reflected in any compensation paid to Mrs A.
M & S have refunded all charges and interest from when the original payment 
deferral expired. I think this was appropriate here and also ensured that M & S 
complied with their obligations under the FCAs rules and standards detailed in their 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, Section 7 (CONC 7). But given Mrs As financial 
circumstances, I think it unlikely that M & S wouldve agreed a further deferral in July. 
So, I cant reasonably conclude that M & S were wrong to report any missed 
payments since then. Had the account hold been applied at that time, they wouldve 
still been reported.
Although a six-month hold was agreed, this meant Mrs A wasnt complying with the 
original terms of her credit card agreement. Contractual payments werent being met 
and her account was in excess of the agreed credit limit. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three months behind 
with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to 
be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
That is what M & S did, so I cant reasonably say they did anything wrong here. What 
they reported was an accurate reflection of what actually happened.
It's unfortunate that M & S appear to have misinformed Mrs A when she spoke to 
them in September 2020. They told her that any default wouldnt be recorded until 
much later. M & S have accepted their mistake here and apologised. They also 
offered Mrs A compensation of £125 for the confusion caused. And this feels fair to 
me in these circumstances. But I also think M & S shouldve acted sooner to correct 
Mrs As belief that she had a further payment deferral. I think they had opportunity to 
do that during calls with her. Because of this, I shall be asking M & S to pay further 
compensation of £75 taking the total to £200.
In their view, our adjudicator suggested that M & S should remove any adverse data 
reported on Mrs As credit file from when the original deferral finished to the point 
when she was told her subsequent request had been declined. As I mentioned 
above, I dont believe M & S wouldve agreed a further deferral. So, I dont think this 
would put Mrs A back into the position she shouldve been. 
In reality, I believe M & S wouldve introduced a payment hold sooner. So, the 
missed payments would still have been reported. Theyve already refunded interest 
and charges. But its unclear whether M & S have reflected these refunds in the 
balances reported on Mrs As credit file between July and September. So, I shall be 
asking them to ensure they do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
M & S have accepted my provisional decision. Theyve confirmed that a cheque for £125 
was sent to Mrs A in November 2020. Subject to Mrs As acceptance, theyve agreed to pay 
a further £75.
Mrs A originally accepted my provisional decision on the basis she thought the missed 
payments would be removed from her credit file. So, clarification of my provisional decision 
has been provided to her. As Ive explained above, given Mrs As financial situation at the 
time, I dont think M & S wouldve agreed a further payment deferral in July. The FCAs guidance was clear that deferrals should only be granted where the difficulties 
experienced were as a direct consequence of the global pandemic and were considered to 
be temporary. Mrs A made it clear to M & S that she didnt expect her situation to improve 
before January 2021. So, this wouldve been after any further deferral had expired and so 
wouldnt be considered temporary. 
On this basis, I dont believe M & S wouldve agreed a further deferral in July. They could 
only have offered a payment hold sooner, as they did in September 2020. This means Mrs A 
wouldve still missed payments and M & S wouldve been required to report these on her 
credit file. 
Mrs A has told this service that the only outcome she would accept was for M & S to remove 
the reported missed payments. But as I dont believe a COVID payment deferral was 
appropriate here, I cant reasonably say that M & S made a mistake by reporting them. I 
completely understand Mrs As disappointment, and I agree M & S did make mistakes here. 
Ive reflected these in my final decision. But I shant be asking M & S to remove either the 
missed payments or the default from her credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
I require Marks & Spencer Financial Service Plc to:
pay Mrs A further compensation of £75 in addition to the £125 already offered, 
making a total of £200; and
ensure that any balances reported on her credit file between July and September 
reflect the interest and charges theyve refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman