DRN-3250277
The complaint
The executor of Mrs Vs estate has complained about the advice she and the late Mr V 
received to take out a lifetime mortgage in 2002. The executor considers that the mortgage 
was mis-sold as due to Mr Vs medical situation and believes that he wouldnt have been 
able to understand the financial implications the mortgage would have on the surviving 
spouse after either of their deaths. 
The advice was given by a representative if Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs V approached an Aviva representative in a high-street financial 
institution. They were retired and had an existing interest-only mortgage of £20,000. They 
had no savings or investments in place to repay the capital owing. At the time they were 
living on pension income and they had only £130 per month disposable income after the 
essentials were paid for. Their savings totalled £6,000. Mr and Mrs V told the adviser they 
wanted money to be able to pay off their mortgage, buy a new car and have some money for 
holidays and other expenses. However, they didnt want to move in order to facilitate this 
happening. Mr and Mrs V also confirmed that they were willing to risk eroding all of the 
equity in their home in order to achieve their goals.
Aviva recommended a lifetime mortgage and, based on how much Mr and Mrs V thought 
their home was worth, the maximum it would advance them was around £36,000. They 
decided to apply to borrow that amount. This would allow them to pay off their mortgage and 
buy a new car. It would also allow them to increase the funds they had available to enjoy 
their lives, by both having capital for holidays etc, but also by increasing their monthly 
disposable income by £110, as they would no longer be paying their mortgage.
Before they applied for the mortgage, they were given an illustration. This included details of 
how much Mr and Mrs V would owe Aviva at the end of 5, 10 and 20 years. It also worked 
out how much would go to their estates at those points, based on assumptions about how 
much the value of their home increased. This showed that by year ten Mr and Mrs V would 
owe over £77,000 and by year 20, they would owe over £160,000.
Mr and Mrs V accepted the advisers recommendation. Aviva then had a valuation 
completed on the property. The valuation determined that the property was worth less than 
Mr and Mrs V thought, so the amount Aviva was willing to lend them was reduced to 
£32,200. A mortgage offer was issued to them for this amount and they accepted it, after 
speaking to an independent solicitor. The role of the solicitor was to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs V understood the mortgage and the consequences of taking it out. The solicitor 
signed a declaration confirming they did. 
Mr V sadly died and when Mrs V subsequently needed to move into residential care, the 
existence of the mortgage meant there was less money available to pay for that care. Her 
attorney at the time, and subsequently her executor, complained about the advice to take the 
mortgage. The executor didnt think that due to his health situation, Mr V would have 
understood how the mortgage would affect Mrs Vs finances if he were to die first. The 
executor said that had Mr V understood, he would never have taken out the mortgage. 
Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained the sales process, including the requirement 
for Mr and Mrs V to have met with an independent solicitor to ensure they understood the 
mortgage. The information Mr and Mrs V gave the Aviva adviser was then summarised. 
Overall, Aviva was satisfied the mortgage had been properly explained to Mr and Mrs V and 
the advice was suitable.
The executor was not satisfied with Avivas response and referred the complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the mortgage provided for Mr and Mrs Vs declared needs and 
requirements in 2002. He also considered whether Mr V was capable of understanding the 
mortgage and its potential consequences on the amount of money available if one of them 
were to die and the other needed funds for care. However, he wasnt persuaded, based on 
the medical information the executor had provided, Mr V would have been considered 
vulnerable and unable to understand what he and Mrs V were doing. 
The executor didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint 
be escalated. He said that Mr V wasnt in good health in 2002 and he felt Aviva should have 
taken that into account. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view of the 
complaint. The executor asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor has said that he doesnt think Mr V understood what he was doing because of 
his medical situation in 2002. I have looked at the information the executor has provided and 
while it does show that Mr V had physical medical conditions at that time, there is no 
indication in that information that he wasnt capable of dealing with his own affairs in 2002. 
While he was later diagnosed with dementia, that didnt happen until around 15 years later. 
Ive seen nothing that indicates that Mr V wasnt able to understand the information he was 
given. Indeed, had there been any concerns about either Mr or Mrs Vs mental capacity in 
2002, I would have expected the solicitor to have raised concerns and refused to sign the 
documentation required by the lender for the mortgage to be advanced. 
Having considered the information Mr and Mrs V gave the Aviva adviser, it would appear 
that they needed a significant amount of capital in order to facilitate repaying their mortgage 
and to buy a new car. While they had some savings, the amount was inadequate to fulfil 
either of their capital needs. As they didnt want to move, and given they were in their 
seventies and on a low income, they would have had very limited options available to them. 
Indeed, it is likely they didnt have any alternative to the lifetime mortgage to facilitate their 
needs. They also wanted to improve their lifestyle, including taking holidays and decorating 
their home. Again, the lifetime mortgage facilitated this in providing capital they could draw 
on and by increasing their monthly income. 
Mr and Mrs V were given examples of the amount the mortgage could build up to, including 
being told that all of the equity in the property could be taken by the interest that rolled up. 
Mr and Mrs V confirmed they were willing to risk this happening in order to be able to do 
what they wanted. Overall, it appears that Mr and Mrs V were capable of understanding what they were doing 
and were given clear information to be able to understand what they were doing and its 
potential consequences. The advice allowed them to fulfil their needs and priorities, and I am 
unable to find it was unsuitable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs V to accept or reject my 
decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman