DRN-3799278
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the way TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree (but 
referred to here as TSB) has dealt with their mortgage account. They say:
they were not offered a new interest rate product for many years;
TSB refused to consent to Mr W being removed from the mortgage.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs W would like TSB to transfer the mortgage into Mrs Ws 
sole name on an interest-only basis.
Mrs W has dealt with the complaint throughout, with the consent of Mr W.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have an interest-only mortgage originally taken out in July 2005 with another 
lender. They borrowed £112,000 over a term of 21 years. The intended repayment vehicle 
was the sale of other properties owned by Mr and Mrs W. The mortgage was originally on a 
fixed rate product, until September 2008, after which it reverted to the lenders Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs W divorced in 2008. The other properties were sold as part of the divorce 
settlement, so since then there has been no repayment strategy for the mortgage. The title 
to the property was transferred into Mrs Ws sole name, but the mortgage has remained in 
joint names.
Following the financial crash, the original mortgage lender collapsed and the mortgage was 
transferred to another business which administered the mortgage but which didnt offer any 
new lending or interest rate products. The mortgage was transferred to TSB on 18 July 
2016. 
TSB did offer new interest rate products, but it wasnt until 2018 that Mrs W first approached 
TSB about this. At that time Mrs W didnt want to go through a full application, so it didnt 
proceed any further. In particular, Mrs W was unhappy that she needed Mr Ws consent to 
make any changes to the mortgage.
However, in January 2020 Mr and Mrs W did apply for a new interest rate product, a fixed 
rate of 2.74% for the remainder of the mortgage term, at that point, just over six years, on a 
balance of approximately £119,000.
In 2021 Mrs W complained to TSB that it hadnt offered her a new interest rate product. She 
said that, if shed been offered a lower rate 14 years ago, she could have made 
overpayments and reduced the mortgage balance.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint and so Mrs W brought the complaint to our service, with the 
consent of Mr W. In addition to the complaint about the interest rate, Mrs W said that TSB 
had unfairly refused to remove Mr W from the mortgage.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He explained that TSB hadnt taken over the 
mortgage until July 2016, and so couldnt have offered a lower rate before then. He noted 
that Mrs W hadnt wanted to go through a full application in 2018 because shed have 
needed Mr W to join in the application. The investigator was satisfied it was reasonable for 
TSB to require both borrowers to be on the application, and that it wasnt until January 2020 
that Mr W had consented to this. He didnt think this part of the complaint should be upheld.
In relation to Mrs Ws request to remove Mr W, from the mortgage, the investigator noted 
that Mrs W had first asked TSB about this in April 2021. This was declined because TSB 
said that Mrs W didnt have a credible repayment vehicle. TSB said Mrs W had told the bank 
she didnt want to sell the property. Her plan was to take out an equity release mortgage, but 
TSB said that this wasnt acceptable.
TSB had looked at whether or not it could put the mortgage onto a repayment basis, but this 
wasnt affordable over the remaining term. As a result, TSB said it wasnt able to release 
Mr W from the mortgage.
The investigator thought TSB should have done more to help Mrs W. He noted that 
affordability wasnt an issue for the current interest-only mortgage and that Mrs W was 
making overpayments to reduce the balance. He thought it would have been fair and 
reasonable for TSB to allow Mrs W to apply to remove Mr W from the mortgage in April 2021 
and for the mortgage to remain on an interest-only basis. 
He noted Mrs W was aware of the need to repay the mortgage by the end of the term, and 
thought her plan either to sell the property or take out an equity release mortgage was 
reasonable. The investigator didnt think that having Mr W on the mortgage made any 
difference to this. 
The investigator thought that TSB should now allow Mrs W to apply to remove Mr W from 
the mortgage, subject to a new affordability assessment and taking into account any 
changes in circumstances. He said that if the mortgage was affordable, then he would 
expect TSB to agree to remove Mr W from the mortgage and engage with Mrs W on her 
plans to repay the mortgage by the end of the term. The investigator thought Mrs Ws plan to 
take out an equity release mortgage was a credible repayment strategy.
The investigator also asked TSB to pay Mrs W compensation of £200 for the trouble caused 
by not doing more to consider removing Mr W from the mortgage and allowing both parties 
to move on. He noted Mrs W had been in discussion with an equity release financial adviser, 
whod told her of the need to increase the equity in the property in order to qualify for an 
equity release mortgage. Mrs W hoped to be on track to do this in about 2024.
TSB didnt agree with the investigators findings in relation to the transfer of the mortgage. 
The bank reiterated that Mrs W had no repayment strategy that fit within its criteria. TSB also 
said that converting the mortgage to repayment wasnt affordable. Although Mrs W was 
currently able to afford the mortgage and overpayments on an interest-only basis, this might 
change. As a result, there was a risk to the bank if Mr W was removed and Mrs Ws 
circumstances changed.
Provisional decision
On 19 October 2022 I issued a provisional decision, in which I made the following findings.
Interest rate product: TSB only took over the mortgage in July 2016, so I can only 
look at what happened after that date. Im satisfied TSB had interest rate products 
available and advertised these to customers. It wasnt until 2018 that Mrs W first enquired about a product switch, along with a 
payment holiday, but didnt go ahead with an application at that point. Its recorded in 
the contact notes that there was a marital dispute marker on the account, and so 
TSB couldnt agree to a payment holiday. Mrs W told TSB that she might look to 
move lenders rather than go through an application with TSB. 
Its generally reasonable for TSB to need both Mr and Mrs W to consent to a new 
interest rate product, because of the potential of an early repayment charge or 
product fees that might increase the overall debt. It wouldnt be fair for TSB to allow 
one party to make changes to the mortgage that could impact on the other without 
their knowledge or consent. However, if TSB had been able to offer a new product 
with no fee or ERC, then that would not have caused any detriment to Mr W, but all 
TSB products came with an ERC. 
I note that in January 2020 a new interest rate product was applied for in joint names, 
which runs to the end of the mortgage term. However, Im not persuaded TSB did 
anything wrong in relation to offering a new interest rate product.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Removal of Mr W from the mortgage: Mrs W wants Mr W to be removed from the 
mortgage. I appreciate that he has had no involvement with the property for many 
years and is no longer on the title. But I have to decide whether TSB is acting 
unreasonably in refusing to remove him from the mortgage account.
The mortgage is due to be repaid in 2026. The original repayment strategy  sale of 
other property  no longer exists. 
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash 
in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old 
rules but not under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The 
rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out 
an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go 
down. If theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to 
affordability, theres no obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And 
if there is a change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a 
lender could still decide to allow an application without an affordability assessment if 
doing so would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
Removing a borrower from a mortgage is a change that is material to affordability. Im 
satisfied TSB is entitled to look at whether or not Mrs W is able to afford the 
mortgage in her sole name. Mrs W says Mr W hasnt contributed to the mortgage for 
many years. Nonetheless, while hes on the account TSB can ask him for payment. 
Removing Mr W from the mortgage would mean that Mrs W is solely responsible for 
it. This changes the risk for TSB and Mrs W. 
It wasnt until 2021 that Mrs W asked TSB to consider transferring the mortgage into 
her sole name on an interest-only basis. TSB said it wasnt able to do so, because 
there was no repayment vehicle.
TSBs lending criteria doesnt allow for a sale of the mortgaged property as a 
repayment vehicle, and I understand that Mrs W also doesnt want to sell the 
property. Its accepted by Mrs W that converting the mortgage to capital repayment 
isnt affordable.
Mrs W says that her main repayment strategy is that she intends to take out an 
equity release mortgage, once she has paid off enough of the capital to qualify. 
Mrs W has provided figures from her financial adviser that show she would need to 
be at a 38% or 39% loan to value ratio (LTV) if her property is worth between 
£280,000 and £300,000. Mrs W anticipates that this will be in about 2023 or 2024.
However, that strategy depends on several factors, none of which are guaranteed. I 
dont doubt that Mrs W is able to afford the mortgage as it currently stands, but I note 
Mrs W is self-employed. As a result there is no guarantee of her future earnings. If 
Mrs Ws earnings decrease, she might not be able to make overpayments on the 
mortgage to reduce the capital. In addition, given the current financial climate, the 
value of the property might decrease, which could affect the LTV for the equity 
release mortgage.
If all goes to plan  and I hope it does  then Mrs W says she will be able to arrange 
an equity release mortgage sometime in 2023 or 2024. Because the property is in 
Mrs Ws sole name, she can arrange a new mortgage in her sole name herself at any 
time; Mr Ws consent isnt needed for this. 
But while the mortgage account is in joint names, both Mr and Mrs W are jointly and 
severally liable for the debt. If Mr W was to be removed from the mortgage now  and 
if Mrs Ws plans to re-mortgage dont go ahead  this leaves both her and TSB at an increased risk. This is particularly so if Mrs Ws income falls, or if her plans to take 
out an equity release mortgage dont go ahead. There are only four years left on the 
mortgage and so Im not persuaded there is any detriment to Mrs W or Mr W in 
leaving the mortgage in joint names if, as Mrs W says, her plan is to repay it by 2023 
or 2024 in any event.
Ive taken into account the regulations, affordability of the mortgage and whether or 
not removing Mr W from the mortgage would be in Mrs Ws best interests. However, 
having done so, I dont think TSB is under any obligation to remove Mr W from the 
mortgage; nor do I agree that it should have done more to make this happen in 2021, 
when Mrs W first made the request.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that TSB has acted unfairly. This means that 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint or ordering TSB to pay any 
compensation.
Responses to the provisional decision
TSB accepted my provisional decision. Mrs W told us she had nothing further to add. Mr W 
has made some further points. In summary, Mr W has explained that he has been divorced 
from Mrs W for a number of years. Mr W has told us about his personal circumstances 
(which I will not repeat here, for reasons of privacy). Mr W says that he thought hed been 
taken off the mortgage many years ago. Mr W says he wasnt aware of the new interest rate 
product taken out in 2020 and that his only involvement in the property since he was 
divorced from Mrs W is to ask  now  that his name is taken off the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr W has said in response to the provisional decision  that he didnt know 
he was still on the mortgage, or about the interest rate product taken out in January 2020. 
TSBs records show that the documentation was signed by all parties. If Mr W didnt know 
about it, thats something hell need to discuss with Mrs W. There is nothing in the 
documentation to suggest this was done without Mr Ws consent. However, there doesnt 
appear to be an ERC on this product, so there is no detriment to Mr W in the mortgage being 
on a lower interest rate.
In relation to Mr W being removed from the mortgage, I fully appreciate that Mr W has had 
no involvement in the property since his divorce from Mrs W in 2008, and that he thought 
hed been removed from the mortgage at that time. However, he wasnt removed from the 
mortgage and remains on the account as a joint borrower. 
I can see from the contemporaneous account notes that Mrs W applied to remove Mr W 
from the mortgage in 2009, but this was declined as the request failed affordability 
requirements. This decision is something Mr Ws solicitors acting for him at the time of the 
divorce should have confirmed to him, but the fact remains that he wasnt taken off the 
mortgage and remains jointly and severally liable for it.
Affordability of the mortgage and the need for a repayment strategy are both factors TSB 
must take into consideration when considering removal of a joint borrower from the 
mortgage account. Whilst I appreciate Mr W no longer has any involvement in the property, Im not persuaded  given Mrs Ws circumstances  that TSB is under any obligation to 
remove Mr W from the mortgage account. 
Therefore, for the same reasons given in my provisional decision, and which are set out 
above, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong  either in relation to the interest rate 
product or its decision not to remove Mr W from the mortgage account.
I would reiterate the points made in my provisional decision  that Mrs W is free, if she 
wishes, to raise a mortgage in her own name to pay off the mortgage to TSB. Mrs W is 
hoping to take out an equity release mortgage in the near year or two, for this purpose. 
Given this, I remain of the view that keeping the mortgage in joint names until such time as 
Mrs W is able to take out a new mortgage, or the mortgage reaches the end of its term in 
four years time is reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman