DRN-4119008
The complaint
Mr R complains that due to a Santander UK Plc error, he wasnt able to take advantage of a 
years Individual Savings Account (ISA) allowance. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Santander dont dispute that if it wasnt for their error, Mr R would have utilised his 
2021-22 ISA allowance in full. 
It has been confirmed that despite it being no fault of Mr R, the ISA cannot be taken 
out retrospectively. I have also had this confirmed directly to me. 
Santander has agreed to pay the redress as prescribed by the Investigator. This was 
calculated using the well-defined method of this Service in cases such as these. The 
calculation was £20,000 (investment amount) x 2.5% (dividend distribution rate) x 
32.5% (extra tax rate  because dividend distributions are taxed at 32.5% for a 
higher rate taxpayer outside an ISA) x 10 (number of years we generally assume the 
investment will be kept, outside an ISA, as discussed above) = £1,625.
Mr R has not agreed to this redress. He has said that the term of 10 years isnt 
sufficient as these ISA investments form his retirement planning and he intends to 
keep them in place until then. Whilst I appreciate this point, we cant be sure of the 
future and what circumstances Mr R might find himself in that might require these 
funds. The fact they are in an ISA wrapper rather than a pension product such as a 
SIPP, suggests they are more accessible. I think the 10 years investment term we 
assume is fair in this case too. 
Mr R also said he was unhappy with the distribution rate used. I appreciate his 
comments, in light of recent rate increases. However, we cant be sure of the rates 
going forward and this is the calculation rate that we currently and consistently use. 
In summary, I think the redress proposed by the Investigator and agreed to by the 
business is fair. Our role isnt to punish the business for their error. And we are not 
attempting to compensate Mr R for lost investment opportunity. But instead for the 
tax he might have to pay in holding the investment outside of an ISA wrapper. I think 
this redress does that. I also think the offer of £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience is sufficient in recognising the impact this has had on Mr R. 
For these reasons, my decision is that Santander should compensate Mr R as they have 
previously agreed to.
Putting things right
I require Santander UK Plc to:
1. Pay Mr R total compensation of £1,825. Less any amount they have already paid as 
compensation for this complaint. 
2. This amount includes £200 as compensation for Mr R for the distress and 
inconvenience this issue has caused. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman