DRN-3758626
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about an application for a mortgage she made to Nationwide Building 
Society. She is unhappy that the application was declined, believes Nationwides decision 
was wrong and that it treated her unfairly. 
What happened
Miss M applied for a mortgage with Nationwide on 25 January 2022. She wanted to borrow 
£100,000 on a repayment basis over a term of 27 years. An interest rate product was to be 
attached to the mortgage, fixing the interest rate at 1.52% for five years.
A valuation of the property was arranged. The valuation completed on 7 February 2022 gave 
the following advice to Nationwide:
The starting ground rent is more than 0.1% of the total value. This type of building warranty 
is not acceptable. The property is a light industrial to residential conversion where there is no 
residential land use or neighbourhood within the immediate area and therefore outside 
Nationwide policy. A value cannot be provided until a Structural Engineer or Building 
Surveyor's report is provided by the developer confirming suitability for residential 
conversion regarding structure and condition.
The surveyor subsequently confirmed that the engineering evidence was requested in the 
event that Nationwide decided to waive the criteria regarding the location of the property.
The information provided by Nationwide on this issue shows that the building Miss Ms flat is 
located in is one of three on a site. All three of the buildings were converted as one 
development from offices to residential units. The site the buildings are on was surrounded 
on three sides by industrial properties, by which it is meant buildings that were used for 
commercial, rather than residential purposes. On the fourth side, the site abutted a road, 
with residential properties opposite.  The surveyor confirmed that the building Miss Ms flat is 
in directly overlooked industrial properties.
A few days after the valuation was produced, Nationwide asked Miss M to obtain the 
engineering report detailed in the valuation. She was also told that the ground rent would 
need to be reduced. 
Miss M and Nationwide exchanged correspondence, and reports and information was 
provided by Miss M to deal with the ground rent and engineering issues. However, on 
8 March 2022 Miss M was told that the application had been declined. This was due to the 
property not fitting with Nationwides lending criteria because of its location, in particular the 
fact that the block the flat was in backed onto operational industrial buildings. Miss M 
complained. 
Nationwide responded to Miss Ms complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that it had asked the 
surveyor why it had asked for the structural engineers report and it had been confirmed that 
this was due to the structure of the building that contained her flat, having originally been 
used for industrial purposes. It was requested in the event that it might allow Nationwide to 
lend on the property, despite it not complying with Nationwides criteria. Following receipt of 
the information, the valuer had repeated that the property wasnt suitable security. 
Nationwide didnt consider it had done anything wrong in its handling of the application or in 
rejecting it.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and asked us to look into her complaint. 
When doing so she explained that shed found the whole process of dealing with the 
application frustrating and unsatisfactory. This was because she thought the decision 
Nationwide made was incorrect, given that another lender had accepted an identical 
application within two weeks of the rejection. Miss M said that she wasnt given a proper 
reason for the rejection and what she was told was inadequate. In addition, the application 
was badly handled, with endless delays, that meant she ended up paying out more in rent. 
Miss M also commented that the interest rate she obtained with the new lender was higher 
and so meant shed had to take the mortgage over a longer term in order to reduce the 
payments to around the same level as the mortgage with Nationwide would have required.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators view and disputed that shed been told by Nationwide 
that there was a problem with the property. She repeated that she disagreed with the 
surveyors assessment of the property as there were residential properties on two sides. 
However, that said, Miss M argued that if Nationwide was going to decline the application 
because of the nearby industrial properties, it should have told her that when the valuation 
was received, rather than asking for further information that made no difference to that issue. 
Our investigator considered what Miss M said, but it didnt change his conclusions. Miss M 
remained of the opinion that Nationwide treated her unfairly. She reiterated her reasons for 
believing the decision not to lend was wrong and for believing that the application hadnt 
been handled correctly. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint 
should be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2022 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
I believe it would be appropriate at this stage to explain that lenders are not property 
experts. They decide what types of properties they are willing to lend on and accept as 
security, and different lenders will have different criteria for what they are willing to lend on. 
However, they dont have the expertise to complete an assessment of individual 
buildings/properties to determine whether they are a suitable risk. As such, they commission 
valuations from suitably qualified external experts; usually surveyors. A lender is not 
responsible for the findings of the expert, but it is able to rely on the expert opinion. 
In this case, the external expert told Nationwide that Miss Ms property was not suitable, 
based on Nationwides criteria. Therefore, Nationwide was entitled to decline the application 
on that basis. I cant find that it acted inappropriately or treated Miss M unfairly when doing 
so. 
That conclusion leads me to consider what happened after the first time the surveyor 
expressed the opinion that the property was not suitable for lending purposes. Much has 
been made of the fact that the valuation comments were provided to Miss M. I dont consider 
that is relevant. The valuation was produced solely for Nationwides use. As such, when it 
was received Nationwide should have reviewed the information provided. This clearly said 
that the property fell outside Nationwides criteria because of its location. While it then 
suggested further information be provided for the valuer to assess whether the conversion had been done properly and to address a problem about the ground rent, that doesnt 
negate the statement that the property was not suitable security because of its location.
I consider at this point Nationwide should have made the decision as to whether it was 
willing to lend due to the issues with the location. It doesnt appear that it made that 
assessment for several more weeks and until after Miss M had been asked to provide further 
information, which was not relevant to the reason the property was not considered to be 
suitable security. I am satisfied that in delaying this assessment until after Miss M had 
provided the irrelevant information, Nationwide delayed the application process by four 
weeks and put Miss M to unnecessary trouble in obtaining it.
When it has been established that a financial business has made an error, we must consider 
what position a consumer would have been in, but for the mistake. In this case, its 
reasonable to say that Miss M would have been told four weeks earlier that her application 
had been declined. So she would have been in a position to look for a new mortgage four 
weeks earlier than she was and, would likely have completed on her purchase the around 
the same amount of time earlier. 
Miss M has mentioned that she paid an additional month of rent before moving into the 
property. This seems likely, as she would have needed to continue living somewhere until 
she could complete on her purchase. However, had Miss M moved into her home four 
weeks earlier, she would have had to make a mortgage payment to cover that period. A 
significant portion of that payment would have been interest, from which Miss M wouldnt 
have gained any benefit.
As such, Miss M should provide evidence to Nationwide of the cost of her accommodation 
for the four weeks before her purchase completed and details of her current mortgage. From 
the rent figure for the four weeks, Nationwide should deduct the interest Miss M would have 
paid on her mortgage in those four weeks. If this calculation shows that Miss M suffered a 
loss, the amount of that loss should be paid to her. I would make Miss M aware that given 
the majority of the mortgage payment would have been interest, this calculation may not 
result in a significant amount, if anything at all. 
Miss M has also said that because Nationwide turned down her application, she ended up 
with a mortgage with a longer term to keep the monthly payment affordable. I dont propose 
to make an award in this respect as I havent found that Nationwide was wrong to turn down 
the application. So Miss M would never have been entitled to the interest rate on the 
Nationwide mortgage and would always have had to seek an alternative mortgage with a 
different lender at an interest rate and term it was willing to offer. 
However, I do consider that Miss M should be compensated for the poor service she 
received from Nationwide, the additional effort she was put to in providing unnecessary 
information and having had her expectations raised. That must, however, be tempered by 
the fact that the situation was short lived. I am currently minded to conclude an appropriate 
amount would be £250.
Miss M accepted my provisional decision and provided information for Nationwide to use to 
complete the calculation to determine if she had suffered a loss from having to pay another 
four weeks rent. Our investigator will forward this information to Nationwide if Miss M 
accepts this final decision. 
Nationwide confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and that it had nothing 
further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my conclusions or provided any further evidence, I see 
no reason to change my conclusions. 
As neither party has disagreed with my conclusions or provided any further evidence, I see 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Nationwide Building Society to 
calculate if Miss M suffered a loss from having to pay an additional four weeks rent, rather 
than a payment to her mortgage. In addition, it should pay her £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman