DRN-3178286
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is 
about the investment advice they were given in 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W contacted an SJP adviser (the adviser) in late 2017. At the time they held 
about £2.2 million of cash-based investments in three offshore bond wrappers. Mr and 
Mrs W wanted advice on investing their funds to achieve capital growth and keep pace with 
inflation.
From late 2017, the adviser met Mr and Mrs W a number of times to discuss their 
circumstances and SJPs recommendations to them. The adviser presented SJPs 
recommendations to Mr and Mrs W at meetings in February and April 2018 and followed this 
up with letters in May and June 2018. At a meeting on 25 June 2018 Mr and Mrs W signed 
various documents agreeing to go ahead with the investments recommended to them. 
The investments that Mr and Mrs W made on SJPs advice were, in summary:
To assign some funds from two of their offshore bonds (bonds A and B) to a trust to pay 
the school fees of Mr and Mrs Ws grandchildren. Of the remaining funds in those bonds 
about £100,000 would be retained for any income tax liabilities and £50,000 as an 
emergency fund. The remainder would be encashed over two years and invested in ISAs 
and a unit trust feeder. 
To retain the third offshore bond (bond C) due to the income tax liability that would arise 
if it is was encashed, but to invest it with a discretionary fund management service. 
Mr and Mrs W complain that they didnt want to go ahead with the investments, but the 
adviser manoeuvred them into doing so. They say this all happened at a time when they 
were vulnerable because they were supporting their daughter and because Mrs W was 
suffering serious ill health. They think the adviser should have stepped away and come back 
when they were able to focus on what to do with their finances. In particular, Mr and Mrs W 
say:
They told the adviser in February 2018 that they would not be going ahead with the 
investments as they needed to make a short-term loan to their daughter of £900,000. 
Their existing investments gave them access to most of that sum through unclaimed tax 
deferred allowances from their offshore bond wrappers. 
The adviser refused to accept that and initially advised them to borrow the money for 
their daughter against their rental properties. Mr and Mrs W refused on several 
occasions, but the adviser kept pushing. 
At a meeting in June 2018 Mr and Mrs W told the adviser they would not be going ahead 
with the investments. He said he would introduce them to a broker who would be able to 
obtain mortgages for their daughter in her own name. They trusted him to be able to sort 
things out. 
When they met the adviser on 25 June, they had not had a chance to read the letters he 
had sent about the recommended investments. They signed the forms he had sent them 
as they thought they were just agreeing to make the adviser their IFA, not agreeing to 
any investments. 
It became clear in October 2018 that the mortgage broker that the adviser had 
recommended was unable to secure mortgages for their daughter because of her credit 
history. Mr and Mrs W ended up borrowing about £900,000 to lend to their daughter over 
two years before their daughter repaid the loan. They want SJP to repay approximately 
£60,000 that they have incurred in interest repayments and fees.
Mr and Mrs W have also complained that SJP made mistakes in the execution of the 
investments that they had recommended. They say, in summary:
The funds from bonds A and B were not encashed in the way that had been planned, 
resulting in additional tax liabilities. Although SJP have offered to put Mr and Mrs W back 
in the position of no financial loss, they complain they are still out of pocket and locked 
into an unwanted investment. 
They thought the funds from bond C were going to be drip fed into a new discretionary 
managed fund, but they were transferred all at once. Although SJP have refunded fees 
levied by the discretionary fund manager they are still locked into an unwanted 
investment.
Mr and Mrs W also raised concerns about the professionalism and competence of the 
adviser, including the provision of false documents and inaccurate information.
Mr and Mrs W also complain that SJP have caused them great distress and inconvenience. 
They say their complaint concerns over £2 million of investments and SJPs actions have 
ruined their lives for a long period. The anxiety that SJP caused them didnt help Mrs Ws 
recovery from serious health issues which she still struggles with. Mr and Mrs W argue that 
this is an extreme case and requires greater compensation for distress and inconvenience 
than the £2,000 SJP have offered.
SJPs position, in summary is:
Their investment advice was suitable, and they dont accept that Mr and Mrs W were 
manoeuvred into agreeing with the recommendations. 
They dont dispute that it was Mr and Mrs Ws wish to support their daughter, nor that 
discussions took place with the adviser about how best that might be achieved. But there 
is nothing to support Mr and Mrs Ws belief that they were not aware of the options 
available before agreeing to go ahead with their investments.
Although their adviser introduced Mr and Mrs W and their daughter to a mortgage 
broker, they are not responsible for any advice he subsequently gave in relation to 
mortgages.
They accept that some of the recommended investments were not enacted as they 
should have been. They have offered to put Mr and Mrs W back in the position of no 
financial loss for those mistakes.
Their offer for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W is substantial and 
reasonable.   
 
Our investigator thought SJPs offer was reasonable and didnt think they should do anything 
more. Mr and Mrs W disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made very detailed submissions in support of their complaint and their 
strength of feeling is clear. Id like to reassure them that I have looked carefully at all the 
information they have provided. Having done so, I hope Mr and Mrs W wont take it as a 
discourtesy that I havent addressed every point they have raised. Instead, Ive concentrated 
my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to their complaint.  
SJPs advice to Mr and Mrs W
SJP had a responsibility to make sure their advice to Mr and Mrs W was suitable at the time 
it was given. The rules say that a business needs to get enough information from a customer 
to make sure their advice meets their objectives. Amongst other things, they need to get 
information about the customers financial situation  including their income, assets, and 
financial commitments  their purpose in investing and the length of time the customer wants 
to invest for. 
Mr and Mrs W first met with the adviser in October 2017. They were retired with income 
coming from a portfolio of buy to let properties and pensions. They were also drawing a tax 
deferred allowance from their cash-based investments in three offshore bond wrappers. 
The bonds were valued at about £2.2 million and Mr and Mrs W wanted advice on investing 
the funds over the medium to long term to achieve capital growth, with the flexibility to take 
some income.
According to the fact find completed by the adviser, Mr and Mrs Ws total annual expenditure 
was about £120,000. That included providing some support for their daughter and paying 
their grandchildrens school fees. Mr and Mrs W had no capital expenditure planned and 
wanted to keep at least £50,000 on deposit for instant access. Their attitude to risk was 
assessed as lower medium. 
SJP first presented their recommendations at a meeting with Mr and Mrs W in 
February 2018. The proposal document explained that Mr and Mrs W would have faced a 
significant tax liability if they had encashed their bonds in full. SJP made a series of 
recommendations, which Ive summarised earlier in this decision. 
I think the advice that SJP gave Mr and Mrs W at that point was suitable for their needs. 
It met their objective of investing for capital growth with the potential also to take some 
income. SJPs recommendations took account of Mr and Mrs Ws potential tax liabilities and 
provided for the school fees to be paid in a tax efficient way. The proposed investments were 
in line with Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk and they retained sufficient funds on deposit for 
any unplanned expenditure. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, however, is that at the meeting in February 2018 they 
told the adviser that they were going to lend £900,000 to their daughter and didnt want to go 
ahead with the investments. They say the adviser should not have continued to recommend 
that they invest their funds and that he manoeuvred them into agreeing to SJPs advice. 
If the adviser was aware that Mr and Mrs W were soon going to need £900,000 in cash, then 
that would have been a significant change in their circumstances from the fact find that had 
been completed a few months before. Its likely that SJPs advice would no longer have been 
suitable for their needs. In determining this part of the complaint Ive looked closely at what happened in the four 
months between the February 2018 meeting and Mr and Mrs W signing the necessary 
paperwork to go ahead with the investments. Further meetings took place in that period and 
both Mr and Mrs W and the adviser have provided their recollections of them. Ive taken 
account of what they have said, although I am also mindful that memories can fade and that 
these events took place about four years ago. Ive also considered the correspondence 
between Mr and Mrs W and the adviser during that time. 
Mr and Mrs W say they became aware in late January 2018 that they would need to lend 
their daughter about £900,000 to take over the mortgages on properties she had acquired 
through her divorce settlement. Their daughter needed the funds on a short-term basis until 
her credit rating was clear and she was able to arrange her own mortgages in two years 
time. When they told the adviser, at the February 2018 meeting, he suggested they take 
advantage of low interest rates to borrow the money for their daughter and still go ahead 
with their investments, but they didnt want to do that. 
Ive not seen any notes taken by the adviser at the time of that meeting. However, both 
parties agree that the adviser proposed introducing Mr and Mrs W to a mortgage broker who 
he said could help them and their daughter. So, Im satisfied that the adviser was aware from 
that point that Mr and Mrs Ws daughter needed to raise money for her properties. And I 
think Mr and Mrs W were prepared to consider different options that would enable their 
daughter to raise the necessary funds. 
It appears that soon after the meeting in February matters went on hold because Mrs W 
became seriously ill. Ive seen an email to the adviser from an SJP colleague in March 2018 
advising that it was probably too late for Mr and Mrs W to make any encashments in that tax 
year. She concluded by saying that the planning will need revisiting post 6 April when [Mrs 
W] is much better.
It seems the next meeting between Mr and Mrs W and the adviser was on 9 April 2018. 
According to the advisers own notes of that meeting, he updated Mr and Mrs Ws financial 
review document. From what I can see, he didnt record anything about their daughters 
situation and didnt expect Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances to change in the 
foreseeable future. The advisers notes also said that Mrs W was a lot better and that Mr W 
had said he would like to go ahead with the recommended investments. 
Mr and Mrs W do not accept that as an accurate record of the meeting. They have said that 
Mrs W was still very unwell, and they did not agree to go ahead with the investments. I cant 
be sure what was said about the situation with Mr and Mrs Ws daughter. But based on what 
Ive seen, I think its most likely the adviser thought Mr and Mrs W were still considering 
various options at that point. In any case, I think what subsequently happened is key to 
determining this point.
The adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs W in May and June 2018 to set out SJPs 
recommendations in more detail. He sent two letters:
The first, dated 22 May 2018, was about SJPs recommendation for bond C. 
Under affordability and capacity for loss he said Mr and Mrs W held £50,000 in 
accessible cash accounts to meet their day to day needs and provide emergency funds. 
 
The second, dated 18 June 2018, covered SJPs recommendations for bonds A and B. 
The letter said Mr and Mrs Ws daughter is currently going through a difficult divorce, as 
such, you have been providing financial support to her, through this difficult time. I think the reference to Mr and Mrs Ws daughter in the second letter was consistent with 
what the adviser had recorded earlier. He was aware of her divorce and that Mr and Mrs W 
were providing her with financial support. But there is no indication that there was a 
likelihood of Mr and Mrs W needing to make a substantial loan to her. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they met the adviser again on 11 June 2018. They say they 
informed the adviser again that they didnt want to invest as they were going to loan money 
to their daughter. The adviser then proposed that he could introduce their daughter to the 
mortgage broker with a view to her borrowing the funds herself. Mr and Mrs W say they 
agreed this could be a workable plan but emphasised to the adviser that it would be difficult 
because of their daughters credit rating. This is supported by a statement their daughter 
provided in support of their complaint. 
Ive also seen a copy of email correspondence in June 2018 between Mr W and the 
mortgage broker. On 18 June, the mortgage broker sent Mr W some rates for mortgages on 
Mr and Mrs Ws rental properties. So, at this point it appears that Mr and Mrs W were also 
still exploring the option of borrowing against their own properties for their daughter.
Mr and Mrs W met the adviser again on 25 June. They have said that at that point, in the 
knowledge that the mortgage adviser would be able to arrange loans for their daughter, they 
signed the investment documents that the adviser presented to them. Mr and Mrs W have 
said the adviser was confident the mortgage broker would be able to obtain mortgages for 
their daughter at reasonable rates. 
I cant be sure what the adviser said to Mr and Mrs W, and their daughter. But he wasnt 
responsible for giving advice to Mr and Mrs Ws daughter about the likelihood of her 
obtaining mortgages or providing any guarantees about her mortgage applications being 
successful. That was the responsibility of the broker she had been introduced too. 
The adviser was responsible for making sure that his advice remained suitable for Mr and 
Mrs W based on their circumstances at the time. As Ive discussed, the adviser was aware of 
the situation with Mr and Mrs Ws daughter and had discussed various options with them. 
And at the time Mr and Mrs W agreed to SJPs advice their daughter was looking to obtain 
mortgages in her own name. In that situation, I think there was an onus on Mr and Mrs W to 
decide if they wanted to go ahead at that point with the investments that SJP had 
recommended. 
By October 2018 it became clear to Mr and Mrs W that their daughter would be unable to 
obtain mortgages at reasonable rates. I recognise that, at that point, Mr and Mrs W might 
have wished that theyd done things differently. But its not fair and reasonable for me to 
decide complaints with the benefit of hindsight. And overall, I dont think I can fairly say that 
the investments recommended by SJP were unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W at the time they 
took them out.
I have looked carefully at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint that they were pressured and rushed 
into accepting SJPs advice. It is clear that Mr and Mrs W experienced a very stressful time 
in 2018. They were supporting their daughter following her divorce and Mrs W became 
seriously ill. Although Mrs W had a successful operation in mid-May 2018, I dont doubt what 
Mr W has said about the lengthy recovery period that followed. 
But, although Im very sorry to hear about the difficult time Mr and Mrs W experienced, 
I dont think I can fairly say that SJP pressured them into making the investments. Mr and 
Mrs W agreed to invest about eight months after their initial meeting with the adviser and 
four months after SJPs advice had first been presented to them. Although things went on 
hold for a while after Mrs W became seriously ill, some time had passed between her operation in May 2018 and Mr and Mrs W agreeing the investments on 25 June 2018. 
And Mr and Mrs W were prepared to meet the adviser in June when they could have 
declined if they did not feel ready to do so.
Ive also taken account of Mr Ws concern that he is severely limited in being able to 
understand complicated financial documents. I can see from the evidence provided that the 
adviser was aware of this from early on in his dealings with Mr and Mrs W. 
I dont doubt what Mr W has said on this point. But Ive also taken account of the fact that the 
adviser met with Mr and Mrs W several times over a few months to present his 
recommendations and discuss them. He also sent his advice letters to Mr and Mrs W in 
good time before the meeting at which they signed them. I think there was sufficient 
opportunity for Mr and Mrs W to ask for more explanation of SJPs advice before signing the 
paperwork if they wanted to do so.  
And I dont accept its likely that Mr and Mrs W thought they were only agreeing to appoint 
the adviser as their IFA. By June 2018 they had been in discussions with the adviser for 
several months about SJPs advice and I think it should have been sufficiently clear to them 
what they were agreeing to. In that context, Id anticipate that Mr and Mrs W would have 
read the documents they were signing, and Ive not seen evidence to show they were misled 
into doing so. 
Complaints about errors in making the recommended investments
After Mr and Mrs W had agreed to go ahead with the investments, SJP accept that mistakes 
were made in relation to the assignment of funds from bonds A and B. Firstly, an additional 
£143,543.31 was invested for the school fees of Mr and Mrs Ws grandchildren above the 
amount that had been planned. And secondly, SJP requested in error two encashments of 
clusters from the bonds in the first year. They have explained that was a result of a 
miscommunication internally. Theyve also said that the bond provider over calculated the 
amount to be paid to Mr and Mrs W generating unexpected chargeable gains certificates.
SJP have taken steps to put things right and offered compensation to Mr and Mrs W to cover 
the tax losses and accountancy fees that they incurred as a result of those errors. 
Having looked at SJPs offer, Im satisfied that it is fair and puts Mr and Mrs W back in the 
position they would have been in if nothing had gone wrong.    
Mr and Mrs W also complained that the funds in bond C were transferred into the new 
discretionary managed fund service in one block, rather than being moved in tranches. 
But Im satisfied that this was in line with SJPs recommendations as presented to Mr and 
Mrs W in February 2018 and set out in the 22 May 2018 letter. The agreement that Mr and 
Mrs W signed on 25 June 2018 also made clear that funds would be moved in one block. 
I note that SJP have offered to refund fees of £8,068.34 deducted on this account as a 
gesture of goodwill. I wont be asking SJP to do anything more on this point. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaints on these points, SJP have offered a total of 
£22,650 in compensation to put them back in the position they would have been, but for the 
errors made. They have also offered to cover the solicitor costs Mr and Mrs W have 
incurred, subject to the provision of an invoice. I think that is fair and reasonable.
Adviser professionalism and competence 
Mr and Mrs W have also raised other concerns about the professionalism and competence 
of the adviser. They have provided evidence which they say shows the adviser was 
responsible for mistakes with the encashment of funds from bonds 1 and 2 and that he fully intended for their bonds to be withdrawn in the way they were. They have also said the 
adviser is responsible for SJP providing false and edited documents to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and that he provided other incorrect information, such as saying that 
Mr and Mrs W were higher rate taxpayers.
I do not intend to make findings on all the concerns that Mr and Mrs W have raised. 
Our service has no regulatory or disciplinary powers, nor is it our role to blame or punish 
individuals for mistakes that have been made. Where a business has done something 
wrong, our role is to make sure that consumers are put back in the position they would have 
been in if a mistake had not been made. And Im satisfied that the offer SJP have made to 
Mr and Mrs W achieves that. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Ws concern about documents sent to the ombudsman service, 
I can see that SJP provided two versions of a recommendation letter that was sent to Mr and 
Mrs W. One seems to be a complete version, while the other has some sections missing. 
But Im satisfied that the version sent to Mr and Mrs W at the time was the complete letter 
and that Ive had access to that version in deciding this complaint. And Id also like to 
reassure Mr and Mrs W that Im satisfied I have the information I need to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr and Mrs W have said that SJP have caused them significant distress and inconvenience. 
These events happened at a time when Mr and Mrs W were supporting their daughter and 
when Mrs W became seriously ill. They say SJPs actions at a time when they were 
extremely vulnerable added considerably to their stress, causing them sleepless nights and 
impacting on their mental health. 
In deciding what level of compensation is appropriate I need to take account of what SJP did 
wrong. I have not found that SJPs advice was unsuitable, but I agree they made mistakes in 
carrying out the investments Mr and Mrs W had agreed to. Those mistakes related to high 
value investments and caused significant distress to Mr and Mrs W over a prolonged period, 
impacting on their health. 
But, having taken account of everything Mr and Mrs W have said, I think SJPs offer of 
£2,000 for the distress and inconvenience they have caused is fair and reasonable. I wont 
be asking them to do anything more. 
 
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive looked carefully at everything they have said. 
And while I understand that they feel strongly about what has happened, I dont think I can 
fairly say that SJPs advice was unsuitable. 
SJP have offered to pay Mr and Mrs W £22,650 in compensation for the mistakes made in 
enacting their investments and to reimburse them for the solicitor fees that they have 
incurred. They have also offered £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused to them.      
I am sorry that Mr and Mrs W have been through such a distressing time. I realise this will be 
a disappointing decision for them, but I think SJPs offer is fair and I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.My final decision
SJP have already made an offer to pay compensation of £24,650, plus solicitor fees, to 
settle Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay £24,650, plus 
the solicitor fees they have incurred, to Mr and Mrs W if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman