DRN-2923069
The complaint
Mr H complains that LRUK (RETAIL) LIMITED (LR), trading as La Redoute, didnt provide 
a refund for items he returned which led to him incurring charges. He also says they failed to 
provide a copy of his credit agreement.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the refunds
Whilst Mr H returned items in early 2020 they werent refunded until November 2020.
Im persuaded that is because Mr H hadnt provided proof hed returned the items, or at least 
hadnt provided proof in a readable format.
The Resolver case file shows that whilst Mr H appears to have uploaded files to that system 
they were not sent to LR.
Evidence in an appropriate format wasnt received by LR until 2 November 2020 and they 
refunded items a few days later.
I therefore dont think it would be fair to suggest LR have done anything wrong with respect 
to refunding the goods.
the charges and credit file reporting
Mr H cancelled his direct debit on 9 May 2019 before he disputed the return of his goods. 
There was a balance of over £400 on the account at that point and Ive not seen that Mr H 
made payments towards that. LR would therefore be obligated to report any missed 
payments to Mr Hs credit file and make charges in line with the arrears on the account.
I dont think there is evidence that LR did anything wrong in that respect.
provision of credit agreement
I can see from LRs file notes that they thought they sent the credit agreement in October 
2019. They apologised for not sending it in November 2019 and I can see that they did send 
it at that point, and to the address we have on file for Mr H. I think an apology was sufficient 
in the circumstances as I dont think Mr H was financially inconvenienced by the delay.
Overall, Im not asking LR to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman