DRN-2768788
The complaint
Mr L says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to him 
irresponsibly. He says he was in severe financial difficulty when it lent to him and he needed 
to borrow further to make the loan repayments. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about two loans MoneyBoat.co.uk provided to Mr L in March and June 
2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 28/03/2018 £200 2 31/05/2018
2 01/06/2018 £700 4 19/12/2019
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that Moneyboat.co.uk had 
information that showed Mr L was in financial difficulty. And better checks wouldve 
confirmed this.
Moneyboat.co.uk disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that, whilst the credit 
reference agency information did show Mr L had other financial commitments, it wouldnt 
be practical to fully review all of the information it had before approving this loan. This was 
partly due to its automated processes, and partly as it said its consumers require a quick 
decision about lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat.co.uk should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ive have explained why below.
Mr Ls declared income was £1,750 for loan 1 and just under £2,000 for loan 2. Putting 
this against his declared expenditure of £800, and its reasonable to say the loans 
wouldve seemed affordable to Moneyboat.co.uk.
But as our adjudicator explained, Moneyboat.co.uks credit checks showed that Mr L 
already had significant amounts of other lending, and related financial problems. This 
included consistently using other short term loans, having problems repyaing his other 
lending and his his ovedraft. He owed relatively large amounts of short term and high cost 
debt overall. He had been in this situation for a reaonably long time. And he was receiving 
help with these through a third party debt management organisation. 
So, I think there was enough evidence of financial problems in the information 
Moneyboat.co.uk had to say that it shouldve looked further into Mr Ls circumstances, at 
the very least. Had it done this it wouldve confirmed that Mr L was a fequent and signficnat 
user of short term credit. And he did have other problems managing his money. 
Moneyboat.co.uk has said that it didnt fully consider the information it had about Mr L 
before lending. This was to ensure that it provided a quick and efficient service to him. And 
it also says that the regulators guidance does not say that it needed to look at each line of 
a credit file in respect of each loan, particularly early on in the lending relationship.
But Moneyboat.co.uk had information that showed Mr L was possibly in financial difficulty. 
And having looked at the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk has supplied I dont think 
its difficult to see this. The first few pages of the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk 
has supplied show that Mr L had significant amounts of other lending. There is more detail 
about this later in the report.
I think its reasonable to say that this information was easily accessible to 
Moneyboat.co.uk. And it follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat.co.uk 
should have fully considered it.
I think that Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve found out this information if it had made 
proportionate checks. And I think Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve seen Mr L wouldnt have been 
able repay these loans in a sustainable way. So, I think that Moneyboat.co.uk shouldnt 
have given these loans to Mr L and I think hes lost out as a result of this. Im upholding 
Mr Ls complaint.
  Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat.co.uk should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent to Mr L, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoat.co.uks liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat.co.uk shouldnt have given Mr L loans 1 and 2.
A) MoneyBoat.co.uk should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) MoneyBoat.co.uk should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MoneyBoat.co.uk should pay Mr L the total of A plus B.
D) MoneyBoat.co.uk should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ls credit 
file in relation to loans 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat.co.uk to deduct tax from this interest. 
MoneyBoat.co.uk should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax MoneyBoat.co.uk has 
deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman