DRN-3548883
The complaint
Mr W complains that a television he bought from a retailer, T, is faulty. Because he paid for 
the television with his credit card, issued by HSBC UK Bank Plc, he says that the bank is 
liable to put things right. 
What happened
Mr W bought a television and sound bar in November 2015, using his HSBC credit card. He 
says that the television developed a fault in 2021 and that it is covered by a six-year 
warranty. The retailer, T, is no longer trading, although its business has been taken over. 
The new business owner was unable to trace any information about the warranty and said 
that, in any event, the parts needed to repair the set are no longer available. 
Mr W then contacted HSBC to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. The bank asked Mr W to provide an independent report showing that the television 
was faulty, but he declined to do so. HSBC did not therefore agree to meet Mr Ws claim. 
He referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator concluded that it was not clear that Mr W had taken out a six-
year warranty or, if he had, what its terms were. In the circumstances, therefore, HSBC had 
not acted unfairly. Mr W did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act in this case is that, if Mr W has a claim 
for breach of contract against T, he has a like claim against HSBC. Mr W says that he has 
such a claim because the television was not of satisfactory quality, either generally or 
because it needed repairs within the six-year warranty period. 
It was a term of Mr Ws contract with T that the television would be of satisfactory quality. 
That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. It includes 
matters such as durability. Mr W says that the television developed a fault after nearly six 
years.   
In the absence of clear evidence about the nature of the fault and reasons for it, I do not 
believe that I can fairly conclude the television was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. The fact that it developed a fault more than five years after the sale does not, in my 
view, demonstrate that it was faulty at the point of sale. There are many possible reasons for 
the problems Mr W has experienced, not all of them indicative of an inherent fault with the 
television. 
Mr W says however that the television was covered by a six-year warranty. I am not 
persuaded that this was the case. As the investigator observed, a note on the receipt does 
appear to refer to a warranty to be done, but there is no further evidence that this was 
taken out. Nor is there anything to show what might have been covered by such a warranty. 
It would be unusual for a six-year warranty for electrical goods to cover all eventualities 
without any limitation. I believe therefore that there is insufficient evidence for me to 
conclude (i) what the fault was or (ii) that it was covered by a warranty. 
I note as well that the receipt said that each item that Mr W bought was guaranteed for 12 
months. It seems then that the six-year guarantee would have been an extended warranty, 
which would usually require an additional payment and would be more limited in its scope 
than the standard 12 month warranty.
Mr W also says that HSBCs response to his claim was delayed because it did not respond 
to the correct address. I am satisfied however that it did reply to the address it had on file for 
Mr W at the time. I do not believe that the bank had failed to deal with a request to update Mr 
Ws address. 
For these reasons, I think that HSBCs response to Mr Ws section 75 claim was reasonable 
in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman