DRN-1554199
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2001 alongside a credit card. Miss L says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSO 
Limited) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss L case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think CSO Limited made it clear that Miss L didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out. Although I can understand why she cant now remember 
this. The PPI sales process Miss L went through would have required her to either 
select or refuse PPI with both options being equally prominent  she wouldnt have 
been able to progress past this stage if she didnt make a selection. And from the 
evidence available to me I think its more likely that Miss L selected PPI at this stage 
and thats how it came to be applied to her account.
 
CSO Limited didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss L got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information CSO Limited gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means CSO Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss 
L.
 
But CSO Limited will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because:  
When the policy was sold, CSO Limited got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. 
Because CSO Limited didnt tell Miss L, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, CSO Limited has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said - including what shes said about her 
employee sick pay and savings. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI policy 
would have paid out in addition to Miss Ls sick pay and for a longer period of time. It would 
also have paid out if she lost her job  for up to 12 months per claim. I havent seen any 
evidence of Miss Ls savings but even if Miss L had the savings she says she did, it appears 
that she still wanted to take PPI despite these savings. Miss Ls savings werent guaranteed. 
But if they were available to her if/when the need arose, she could have used them for her 
essential living expenses while the PPI would have taken care of her credit card repayments.
what CSO Limited needs to do
CSO Limited has to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. CSO Limited should also pay back to Miss L any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
CSO Limited should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss L the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. CSO Limited should also pay Miss L 8%* 
simple interest if Miss L paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss L can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Miss L any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman