DRN-2913535
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided his car insurance policy and refused to 
pay his claim after his car was stolen.
All reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr P took out a car insurance policy with AXA online in 2019. The car was stolen on the day 
his policy started, so he tried to make a claim to AXA for the loss. 
AXA said Mr P answered the question it asked about who the owner of the car was 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
avoid his policy (so treat it as if the policy was never in place), meaning there was no claim it 
needed to consider. Its refunded the premium Mr P had paid.
Mr P complained to AXA, he said he answered the questions as best he could and acted in 
good faith. But AXA didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
So, Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that AXA was entitled to avoid   
Mr Ps policy. Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He maintained the car was under a private lease and said no definition had been 
provided at the time of purchase so hed correctly answered the question through his own 
interpretation of it. The decision has therefore now come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer should show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
was asked what his relationship to the owner was, and he said the car was on a private 
lease.
Ive looked at the question that was asked. To respond, Mr P would have been presented 
with a number of options to answer the question of his relationship of the legal owner. Some 
of the options listed different family relationship e.g. spouse or child, there was another 
option for a private lease and lastly one for other. I do agree with Mr P, it would have been 
helpful for AXA to provide definitions alongside privately leased or other, and I understand it 
has since added this. However, the test I must apply here is as I explained that of a 
reasonable person, and so I need to consider how they would have acted when presented 
with this question and these options. 
Mr Ps friend was leasing the car from the manufacturer of it. Hed given the car to Mr P to 
take care of, with no exchange of money. When asked the question Mr P chose to select 
privately leased, he said he did this because he felt like it was the closest option to his 
circumstance. AXA had a number of concerns.  Firstly, Mr Ps friend was never the legal 
owner of the car, so wasnt able to sub lease the car to Mr P. Secondly, Mr P couldnt show 
any money changing hands or any of the other common markers of a lease with his friend or 
the finance company. Thirdly, Mr P couldnt produce a copy of the lease hed agreed to with 
his friend. Mr P has very recently presented a private lease to our service. However, having 
considered it, along with the circumstances and testimony previously provided, Im not 
persuaded that there was a private lease in place. I say this because Mr Ps friend was 
never the legal owner to enable him to lease the car to Mr P, even if they do have a non-
monetary written agreement. In addition, Mr P has told AXA the car had come to him as his 
friend already had a car so didnt have the need or space for another. He said it was most 
likely going to spend its time on his driveway. So, I dont think Mr P and his friend intended 
to or were able to agree a private lease. Importantly here, Mr P was asked what his 
relationship with the legal owner of the car was. The legal owner of the car was the finance 
company Mr Ps friend was leasing the car from, not Mr Ps friend himself. Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to show that Mr P had a direct relationship with the owner of the 
car. 
I dont think that a reasonable person would have selected privately leased when presented 
with the same question and circumstances as Mr P in this case. Because of this I think Mr P 
failed take reasonable care when answering the question about his relationship with the 
owner of the car with privately leased. So next, I need to consider whether this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation i.e. would the correct answer have made a difference to the 
insurance AXA offered. 
AXA has provided evidence which shows its underwriting criteria means that it would have 
declined to insure Mr P because he was not the owner of the vehicle, not related to the 
owner or the car was not under a private lease between him and the owner. Ive seen 
evidence that shows if Mr P had selected other a message would have come up explaining 
The car has to be owned by the policy holder, spouse, partner, parent or child.
This means Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. So, I need to think 
about how AXA has classified the misrepresentation. This will be deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. AXA hasnt shown me that Mr P was deliberate or reckless, and so Ive taken it as 
Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless  which is further supported by AXA refunding the 
premium Mr P paid. I agree that Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless because I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr P was trying to purposefully or knowingly mislead AXA. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation should be treated as careless. Ive looked at the 
actions AXA can take in accordance with CIDRA. Im satisfied AXA was entitled to avoid    Mr Ps policy in accordance with CIDRA as its shown that had Mr P not made a qualifying 
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered him this policy on any terms. And, as avoiding his 
policy means that  in effect  his policy never existed, AXA does not have to deal with his 
claim following the theft of his friends car. CIDRA requires AXA to return any premium Mr P 
paid, which I understand it has done.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing AXA to rely on it to avoid Mr Ps policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint. Having considered all the evidence I think AXA was fair and reasonable in 
avoiding Mr Ps policy and so not paying the claim for a stolen car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman