DRN-2016228
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the sale of a private medical insurance policy by Health-on-
line Company UK Limited (HOL).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain 
why.
Its not in dispute that HOL failed to give Mr and Mrs M correct information when arranging 
for them to switch from their existing policy to a new policy. The switch took place on a 
continued personal medical exclusions (CPME) basis, which meant that the exclusions 
under their existing policy transferred across to the new policy. However, HOL failed to 
advise them of this.
Mr and Mrs M think HOL ought to place them in the position they wouldve been in, if HOLs 
wrong advice had been correct (in other words, they should have cover for the excluded 
conditions under the new policy). They think HOL ought to pay the cost of arranging this.
It may be helpful if I explain that when a financial business has done something wrong, the 
aim of this service is to place consumers back in the position they wouldve been in, as if the 
error hadnt occurred (as far as possible).
I therefore need to think about what Mr and Mrs M wouldve done, had HOL correctly 
advised them that their existing exclusions would have transferred across to their new policy. 
It seems to me that Mr and Mrs M wouldve had three options. First, they couldve remained 
with the existing policy (where they didnt have cover for the excluded conditions) and paid 
the high renewal price. Secondly, they couldve switched to the new policy and paid a 
cheaper premium (but still not have cover for the excluded conditions). Finally, they couldve 
tried to find a new policy elsewhere that did provide cover for their conditions. 
I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs M couldve taken the final option. They wouldve needed 
to find an insurer who would underwrite their policy on a medical history disregarded basis. 
This is usually only offered for company schemes, and even if it was offered for an individual 
policy, the cost of it would likely be very high. I note that cost was a factor for them in taking 
out a new policy. That means they wouldve been left with the first two options. 
Given that Mr and Mrs M wanted a cheaper policy, and they didnt have cover for their 
conditions under their existing policy anyway, I think its likely they wouldve still chosen to go 
ahead with the new policy, even if they had known their conditions wouldve still been 
excluded. 
To recognise its error, HOL offered to provide cover for the two excluded conditions if any 
claims were made within the first policy year (though it said that it wouldnt cover routine 
monitoring or check-ups, or preventative treatment). I think this offer was fair, and went 
beyond what I would have required HOL to do. Although Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that 
HOL was applying its own conditions to any claims, I can confirm that most (if not all) private 
medical insurers wouldnt provide cover for routine monitoring or check-ups, or preventative 
treatment. 
I think Mr and Mrs M have been caused upset and inconvenience by HOLs actions. But I 
think the £150 compensation its offered for this is reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs M say that HOLs offer was made on the basis that the new insurer may have 
refused to cover them after a year. To clarify, HOLs offer didnt mean the new insurer would 
provide the cover for Mr and Mrs Ms conditions in the first year, it meant that HOL would 
pay any claim for those conditions itself. Their conditions remained excluded by the insurer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman