The complaint
Mr E complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA won't refund the cost of plane tickets under 
their buyer protection scheme. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead, I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr E wasn't able to fly to his chosen destination. Despite having purchased tickets,
the airport he was flying from didn't accept electronic travel authorisation (ETA)
because they didn't have the relevant technology. And that's what he'd planned to
use to travel because travel to his chosen destination doesn't normally require visa
stamps in a passport.
PayPal contacted the seller of Mr E's plane ticket after he raised his claim under their
buyer protection scheme. And the seller's response explained that their website says
it's the traveller's responsibility to ensure they have the correct documents to fly. And
it's for this reason they didn't consider they were at fault. Given this information, and
the fact Mr E, himself, has confirmed the airport didn't have the technology to check
his ETA, I don't consider PayPal treated him unfairly by not accepting his claim.
I appreciate Mr E paid the seller to be able to fly, and he wasn't able to do this. But
I've not seen any evidence to suggest his inability to use his ticket was down to the
actions of the seller. As mentioned above, Mr E's own testimony has confirmed it was
down to the airport's lack of technology. While Mr E feels what happened wasn't his
fault, I've not seen anything to persuade me PayPal should have concluded this was
the fault of the seller - particularly given the warning on their website about travel
documents.
DRN-1797662As I'm not persuaded PayPal considered Mr E's claim against the seller unfairly, I
next considered if they should have used their discretion to reimburse Mr E the cost
of his flight. But again, I've not seen anything that makes me consider PayPal should
bear the cost of Mr E's missed flight. Ultimately, Mr E couldn't use the plane ticket he
paid for because he didn't have the correct documentation to allow him to fly from his
chosen departure airport. And it was his responsibility to make sure he had that.
Mr E has said receipts given by sellers, aren't proof of the service paid for. And I
agree with this sentiment. However, that's not relevant in his case due to the points
I've made above.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr E's frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I'm not upholding Mr E's complaint about PayPal Europe 
Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman