DRN-3463984
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has acted unreasonably 
when they made a request to surrender their joint protection policy in January 2021.  
What happened
I recognise that though the policy was held jointly, Mr L and Mrs L have since divorced. 
Hereafter, when referring to Mr L and Mrs L collectively, Ill call them Mr and Mrs L. 
In October 2021, Mr L complained via telephone. He followed this complaint up in writing in 
December 2021, where he said that Avivas failure to surrender the policy had been 
continuing for far too long. Neither he nor Mrs L could understand why it wouldnt release Mr 
Ls share of the funds, particularly when he had completed all of the required information. 
On 21 December 2021, Aviva rejected the complaint. It said it apologised if Mr and Mrs L 
found its requirements inconvenient; but it had to take appropriate verification steps before it 
could release funds to them both, since the policy was jointly held. It remained the case that 
Mrs L needed to provide the verification information before the policy could be surrendered. 
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs L brought the complaint to this service. Mr L said that since 
Mrs L was working overseas, Aviva ought to use reasonable means of communication - such 
as email - to proactively assist them in receiving the funds they were owed. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She had 
reviewed the timeline of events and she was unable to agree that Aviva had caused undue 
delay in surrendering the policy.  She felt that its communications had been clear and that it 
had replied to Mr and Mrs L within reasonable timescales. She also noted it was for Aviva to 
determine the steps it needed in order to satisfy that it was releasing the funds correctly.  
Mr L said that he and Mrs L did not accept the investigators view on the complaint. He made 
a number of further points, noting:
the value of the policy is limited;
taking into account the 50% split, Mrs L will receive approximately £2,000;
it cannot be right that Mrs L is expected to spend money equivalent to the majority of 
the policys value in order to provide legally certified documents to prove her identity;
even if Aviva has to follow Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance, that 
guidance must include proportionality and reasonableness tests;
otherwise, he feels the industry is biased in favour of large financial organisations 
over consumers;
Aviva only changed its mind and required a higher level of verification after they had 
both completed and returned all the required forms;
they feel Aviva was acting deliberately to delay matters or otherwise incompetently;
Mrs L has a registered UK address, she pays council tax in the UK and has asked for 
her share of the policys surrender value to be paid into a UK bank account;
Aviva called her on a UK telephone number despite Mrs L explaining it was not 
operational; 
they feel Aviva chooses, at its discretion, the option which most disadvantages them;
when Mr L changed his address in 2011, he was merely required to send a letter 
confirming the change;
Aviva has made no effort to resolve the matter;
nor has it made any suggestions how this may be resolved using measures that are 
reasonable when compared with the value of the policy;   
they want access to money that is rightfully theirs and Aviva is blocking that;
they would like the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.     
Our investigator was not minded to change her view on the complaint. She said her view 
was that FCA rules were in place to protect customers and businesses and she couldnt tell 
Aviva to reasonably ignore them. Though she understood Mr Ls frustration, Mrs L had to 
complete additional verification before the funds could be released since it was a joint policy.  
Mr L said he disagreed and made some additional comments:
Aviva was fully aware of all of the facts before it changed its mind about the level of
verification required;
this change came about after they had submitted all of the forms necessary and a 
significant amount of time after it had been advised Mrs L was working overseas;
this works wholly to Avivas advantage and against their surrender of the policy;
Aviva is picking and choosing  it wont accept Mrs Ls UK address but it will use her 
UK telephone number;
when Mrs L contacted Aviva in December 2021 it led her to believe everything was 
resolved, knowing she was returning overseas and therefore that she would not 
receive her post  thereby causing further delay;
Mrs L remains working overseas so she cannot use the (more affordable) UK Post 
Office verification service proposed by our investigator;
she would therefore be required to engage a legal representative or commissioner of 
oaths overseas and courier the documents to the UK at a far greater cost;
this is prohibitively expensive, unfair and yet another example of Aviva working 
against Mr and Mrs L;
they await an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.   
Whilst the matter was awaiting an ombudsmans review, Mr L provided a further update on 1 
August 2022. He said Mrs L had supplied all of the required information to Aviva by post on 
20 July 2022 whilst visiting the UK. He explained that they both remained unhappy at Avivas 
actions regarding verification, given she had been one of its customers for over 20 years. 
Mr L thereafter confirmed the policy proceeds had been paid. However, he explained that he 
and Mrs L wanted the complaint to continue; they said they still believed Aviva had acted 
unreasonably, that it should have taken more care to keep in regular contact with its 
policyholders which would have negated the need for a prolonged verification process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Though I know this outcome will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, I am not able to uphold this complaint.  
This services role is to investigate disputes and resolve complaints informally, whilst taking 
into account relevant laws, regulations and best practice. In reaching my decision, Ill focus 
on the issues I believe to be central to the complaint to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Its also important for me to point out that we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That 
means our decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations 
or exercise what may be commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service. That 
remit falls to the FCA. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs L feel very strongly that the settlement process has been unduly 
and unreasonably prolonged by Aviva due to its verification requirements for Mrs L. Whilst 
Mr L is entitled to form his own view on what has gone on, I must also do the same. And 
from an objective standpoint, I do not consider that this claim has been unfairly handled.
After Mr L contacted Aviva to surrender the policy, it explained how it required completion of 
Payment Instruction Forms (PIFs) from each of them. Mr L returned his to Aviva on 22 
February 2021. In April 2021, Mr L contacted Aviva again and gave an updated address for 
Mrs L  who had yet to return her form.  
Mr L then wrote to Aviva providing a scanned copy of the PIF on Mrs Ls behalf because she 
was residing overseas and unable to return to the UK following pandemic restrictions. 
However, Aviva had to seek to confirm its authenticity with Mrs L, who had not signed the 
letter. It called and left messages for her the day after receipt of the form.  
The following month  July 2021  Mrs L called Aviva to confirm her overseas address from 
her UK address. Aviva thereafter attempted to change Mrs Ls address but to do so, its 
compliance team required verification evidence from Mrs L. This included a certified 
passport or driving licence, a bank statement and an additional utility bill for the new 
address. It said if Mrs L did not have those, her employer could confirm the address.  
On 11 October 2021, Mrs L returned the completed PIF herself  but she still did not supply 
the required verification evidence for her new address. The following week, Aviva told Mrs L 
that it still required the listed items of evidence to verify her identity at her overseas address. 
Aviva then wrote to Mrs L again in December 2021 and January 2022 asking for the 
evidence to be supplied. It was not until July 2022 that Mrs L was able to complete the 
required information, on a return visit to the UK. Aviva has now paid the settlement to Mr L 
and Mrs L  split equally as they have asked for.  
I realise that Mr and Mrs L feel that the time taken to settle their policy was excessive. I dont 
dispute that it took far longer than they would expect. But I am only able to uphold a 
complaint where I find a business to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. Aviva 
hasnt been unreasonable in requiring the additional verification from Mrs L where she had 
since moved overseas  that is a decision for it to make to ensure it is correctly paying the 
proceeds of the policy.  
Aviva set out a clear explanation to Mrs L as to why specific Money Laundering Regulations 
required it to establish the identity of all legal title holders (including policyholders) in certain 
circumstances. That the policy had a limited value does not mean the process ought to be 
disapplied; Aviva was reasonably entitled to undertake appropriate identity verification steps. Mrs L hadnt returned the information Aviva needed to release the policy funds. I realise that 
working overseas was a barrier to this, but Aviva was not at fault for that. Though it chose to 
rely on postal correspondence over email, but I do not believe it is my role to direct it to have 
utilised electronic means, notably if it may have had valid security reasons for not doing so. 
Taking everything in the round, I cannot uphold this complaint. Though the settlement of the 
policy took longer than it ordinarily should have, I do not believe Aviva has prolonged paying 
out the policy to Mr and Mrs L. It did so upon receipt of valid identification checks being 
satisfied, and it was duly entitled to apply those checks to meet its regulatory requirements.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman