DRN-3891314
The complaint
Miss N complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) handled a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering her car. 
In March 2022, Miss Ns car was damaged when she collided with another vehicle. She 
reported the collision to West Bay and made a claim. West Bay recovered the car and 
started repairs.
Miss N had chosen to have a courtesy car under her policy. There was a short delay in 
providing her with one.
In May, West Bay told her that repairs were complete but it couldnt source one wheel which 
had been damaged in the collision. It offered to return the car to her and make a payment of 
£150 so Miss N could source and fit the wheel herself. 
Miss N refused this and said West Bay should replace all four wheels if it wasnt able to 
source that one wheel. West Bay said it wouldnt do this. 
West Bay told Miss N she had to return the courtesy car or it would charge her £75 per day. 
Miss N returned the courtesy car but didnt collect her own car. She used public transport 
and relied on lifts and taxis. 
Miss N complained about West Bays service. She says the delay getting her car back to her 
caused her significant inconvenience and she wants to invoice West Bay £50 per day for 
this.
Miss N sourced a replacement wheel. She supplied it to West Bay for it to be fitted, but the 
wheel was a different colour from the others so it needed repainting, which had to be 
arranged by Miss N at another garage. 
West Bay said Miss N needed to pay her excess of £700 for it to be able to return her car. 
Miss N refused to pay her excess of £700 because she said West Bay hadnt completed the 
repairs due to the non-matching wheel.
West Bay didnt respond to Miss N within eight weeks, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. She asks that West Bay pay her £50 per day while she hasnt had a car, plus the 
cost of her sourcing a wheel and having it repainted, along with compensation for her not 
being able to go to work as she was making arrangements about her car. She invoiced West 
Bay for £2,274 and continued to increase this figure at £50 per day.
West Bay then responded. It said the damaged wheel was a non-standard modification that 
Miss N hadnt told it about. It said it thought it had made a fair offer to replace the one wheel. 
West Bay said there were some delays it thought were its fault, but others were caused by 
its repairers capacity and things like damaged parts being delivered, so they needed re-
ordering. It said it would pay Miss N £75 for her inconvenience. 
Miss N remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought West Bays 
offer of £150 for the damaged wheel was fair, because the policy said it wouldnt replace a 
modified item such as the wheel. She thought West Bays offer of £75 compensation for the 
delays it had caused was reasonable.
Miss N didnt agree with the view. She asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
In later correspondence, Miss N also said she hadnt received either the £75 compensation 
or the £150 offered for the wheel replacement.
She says West Bay has caused her considerable stress and inconvenience throughout her 
claim, and hasnt provided her with a courtesy car when shed paid for one to be included 
under her policy. She says West Bay extended the period of repair. She also says providing 
the replacement wheel cost her £85 for the wheel, plus £50 for having it painted, plus her 
lost income while she was arranging this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the time Miss N had the use of a courtesy car, she was involved in a second collision. 
She has mentioned this in her approach to this service because she is unhappy about the 
way the excess payment has been handled. But I cant see that shes complained to West 
Bay about this, or that it has issued her with its final response. So Im not going to consider 
this here. If Miss N remains unhappy with this aspect then she is free to complain to West 
Bay, and this service, in due course.
Ive thought carefully about the situation Miss N found herself in after the collision with the 
third-party vehicle. 
I can see there was a slight delay in her car entering West Bays approved repairer, and it 
supplying her with a courtesy car. And I can see that West Bay has considered this and 
awarded £75 compensation for the claims delay. I can understand how frustrating it must 
have been for Miss N to wait for her car to be repaired, but I can also see that it suffered 
significant damage from the impact and needed an extensive amount of work.
West Bay has said it struggled to find an approved repairer with capacity to take Miss Ns car 
and at one point it ordered parts that were delivered faulty, causing more delays. West Bay 
says these delays were outside of its control. Ultimately, Miss N had a courtesy car during 
this period, so any delays in repairing her car would, in my view, not have caused her undue 
additional inconvenience.
Taking all this into account, I think West Bays offer of £75 compensation is fair.
Ive also looked at West Bays policy wording to see what cover there is for the alloy wheel 
damaged in the collision. From the evidence I have, the wheel wasnt part of the 
manufacturers specification for the vehicle. And I can see that when West Bay ordered a 
replacement from the cars manufacturer, the wheel supplied wasnt the same as the 
damaged one.I know Miss N has claimed that the alloy wheel was standard and she bought the car with 
the full set already fitted, but it seems to me that the wheels were a modification. As such, 
under West Bays policy wording the cover says:
In the event of a claim if there are modifications we are not aware of we may not pay 
your claim. If we do agree to pay your claim we will return the car to the 
manufacturers standard specification and wont make good any changes where the 
car has been changed from the manufacturers standard specification. Where we 
have accepted a declared modification to your vehicle, in the event of loss or 
damage, we reserve the right to only make a contribution towards the cost of 
replacing or restoring the modification and will not replace or restore the 
modification.
Considering this point, Miss N didnt tell West Bay about the modified wheels, possibly 
because she wasnt aware of their status. But during the claim, West Bay offered to pay Miss 
N £150 as a cash settlement. I can see in West Bays evidence that it mentions paying this 
£150 in an effort to settle the claim to Miss Ns satisfaction.
Ive then thought about the amount Miss N paid for a replacement wheel, and the repainting 
of it to match, which was a total of £135. I know Miss N has also explained that shes spent 
some of her working days collecting and delivering the wheel, but a certain amount of 
disruption and inconvenience is inevitable when making an insurance claim, and Im not 
persuaded that Miss N has been significantly inconvenienced by West Bay. It seems to me 
that West Bays offer of £150 for the wheel was fair and reasonable here and Im not going 
to ask it to pay more.
Having read the further correspondence from Miss N, I can now see that she has paid her 
excess and collected the car from West Bay. I can see that Miss N said her interim costs 
were around £3,000 because West Bay wouldnt release her car until she paid the excess, 
which she said she wouldnt do until the repairs were complete.
But I think the repairs were reasonably complete  the only outstanding matter was the alloy 
wheel. As Ive said above, I think West Bays offer of £150 for the wheel was fair, so I dont 
think it would be fair of me to ask West Bay to pay more because I think it was reasonably 
Miss Ns choice to refuse to pay the excess. Miss Ns choice to do this meant she wasnt 
entitled to have a courtesy car for any longer under her policy.
My final decision
West Bay Insurance plc has already made an offer to pay £75 compensation to settle the 
complaint and £150 for the cost of the alloy wheel, and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, its my final decision that West Bay Insurance plc should pay Miss N (if it hasnt already):
£75 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
£150 for the replacement alloy wheel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman