DRN-1658973
The complaint
Miss S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) made a withdrawal from her 
savings account, to offset funds she owed on a credit card, without warning her or 
requesting her prior approval.
What happened
Miss S holds a number of accounts with RBS including a savings and credit card account. 
On 24 July 2019 RBS withdrew just over £1000 from Miss S savings account to pay the 
outstanding balance on her credit card. Miss S said this was done without RBS informing her 
first or requesting her consent.
Miss S wasnt aware of what had happened until 25 July 2019 when she noticed just over 
£1000 was missing from her savings account. After she contacted RBS to query where this 
money was she was informed that the money withdrawn had been used to pay the balance 
on a credit card, which had been outstanding for some time. Miss S wasnt happy with this 
explanation. But she said she was told if she wanted any further information shed need to 
write in to complain about what had happened.
On 1 August 2019 Miss S sent a written complaint to RBS. In her complaint she told it a 
credit search had been undertaken in early 2019, which hadnt shown her owing any 
outstanding credit card balance to RBS. And she said the last correspondence she had 
received from RBS relating to this credit card was in 2013, which was when her account was 
passed to a debt collection agency. So, she asked RBS to provide her with details of the 
debt and evidence that it had contacted her before it had withdrawn the money from her 
savings account.
In her complaint letter, Miss S also told RBS its actions had left her in financial difficulties as 
the money it had withdrawn from her savings account was needed as a contribution for a 
house deposit as she was in the process of purchasing a property. She also said the money 
was needed to support her during absence from work on maternity leave.  
Miss S didnt receive a response to her complaint until 18 December 2019, by which time 
shed already referred her complaint to our service. In its final response RBS said its credit 
card department had confirmed that the money was withdrawn from Miss S savings account 
to settle her outstanding credit card balance. It said, in taking money from Miss S savings 
account, it had exercised its right of set-off, which was in line with the terms of Miss S 
account.  While it didnt think it had done anything wrong in taking this approach it did accept 
it should have responded to Miss S correspondence sooner. To recognise the trouble and 
upset that had caused it credited her account with £50 compensation.
When our investigator assessed all the evidence RBS and Miss S had provided our service 
they didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they concluded that RBS had neither made a 
mistake nor treated Miss S unfairly in using money from her savings account to pay her 
credit card balance. But Miss S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Miss S and RBS that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss S experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I can appreciate that she was caused distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. 
My role is to assess whether I think RBS made a mistake, or treated Miss S unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
RBS have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
This complaint was prompted by RBS decision to withdraw money from her savings account 
to pay the outstanding balance of her credit card. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
RBS has provided our service with statements which show that a balance of just over £1000 
was outstanding on Miss S credit card account for an extended period of time. Each 
statement Ive seen clearly asks Miss S to make payment of the full balance immediately. 
Miss S statement preferences were set to paperless. And I havent seen any evidence that 
RBS didnt make these statements available for her to view. So Im satisfied that RBS made 
Miss S reasonably aware of what she owed here.
I can see that Miss S has raised concerns that this sum exceeded her credit limit. But her 
statements clearly state that the credit limit applicable to her card was £1500 and I havent 
seen any evidence that the balance wasnt owed by Miss S. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Miss S account outline the circumstances in which 
RBS is entitled to exercise its right of set-off. Term 7.10 says:
if youve borrowed money from us (for example, through a loan, credit card or overdraft) and 
the money or the repayments are overdue for payment, we may take money from your 
account to repay some or all of the money you owe us (including any fees or interest)..
Miss S will have been provided with a copy of these terms and she will have agreed to them 
when she opened her account. Overall, I think the information provided to her here was clear 
and that she ought to have known that RBS could use money from her account to repay an 
overdue credit card balance. 
Ill turn now to whether I think RBS properly notified Miss S that it was intending to use funds 
from her savings account to clear the outstanding balance on her credit card.
Miss S maintains that she wasnt contacted by RBS before it withdrew funds from her 
savings account. So, it didnt check to see if this was affordable to her. But RBS says it wrote 
to Miss S on 3 and 23 July 2019. It said the first letter it sent Miss S explained there were arrears on her credit card account, 
which needed to be repaid. It requested she contact RBS to discuss ways in which she could 
repay her balance. And it explained it could use its right of set-off to clear the outstanding 
arrears. The second letter RBS sent Miss S confirmed that, because no repayment 
arrangement had been made, it had transferred money from her savings account and used it 
to settle her credit card balance. 
RBS has provided our service with templates of two letters it said it sent Miss S in July 2019. 
I havent seen copies of the letters that were sent to her. But Ive seen system notes 
provided by RBS that confirm these letters were sent to Miss S on 3 and 23 July 2019.  
Given the above evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Julys 
correspondence was posted to Miss S. I can see that the address RBS has recorded for her 
matches the address shes provided our service. I think its most likely that RBS would have 
posted any correspondence to this address.  RBS hasnt told us it received any returned 
mail. But I dont doubt Miss S when she says she didnt receive Julys letters, perhaps due to 
issues with the post where she lives. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the 
post, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold RBS responsible for that. It is not something 
over which it has any control.
In sending correspondence to Miss S on 3 July 2019 Im satisfied that RBS was writing to 
her in efforts to reach an agreement for repayment of her overdue account balance. 
Ultimately, RBS didnt get the information it asked for. So, in the absence of a response from 
Miss S, it followed its process to apply its legal right of set-off, as contained in the account 
terms and conditions. And it wrote to Miss S explaining that it had taken money from her 
savings account to repay her credit card balance. 
In circumstances where RBS felt Miss S was not engaging I think its decision to use funds 
from her savings account to repay what she owed on her credit card was reasonable. Im 
satisfied it applied the set-off only after it had failed to receive a response from, and reach a 
satisfactory repayment arrangement with, Miss S. So, I cant fairly find it did anything wrong.
Miss S told our service and RBS that shes experiencing financial difficulties as a result of 
what happened. But RBS said her current and saving accounts are operating with a healthy 
balance. And I can see she had a balance of just over £1350 remaining in her savings 
account after RBS withdrew the sum it took. So, I dont think any repayment plan that Miss S 
could have offered RBS would have avoided set-off. I appreciate Miss S had other plans for 
the money RBS withdrew. But, as it hasnt made a mistake I cant fairly find it should return 
it.
Finally, Miss S complains that RBS didnt give her a proper explanation, or respond to her 
concerns, about what happened in a timely manner. RBS accepted this in its final response 
to Miss S complaint. It apologised and credited her account with £50 compensation.
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Miss S to not receive a final response to her 
complaint until December 2019. But Im satisfied that the sum RBS has already paid is fair to 
compensate her for the shortcomings in communication here. Its in line with awards made 
by this service in comparable circumstances. So, I wont be ordering it to pay any more.
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with RBS informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss 
S any further with this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman