DRN-2188989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Premier Financial Group Limited failed to change their
landlord insurance to home insurance, resulting in their being unable to claim for any
valuables stolen when they were burgled.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O lived in a rented property. They owned another property which they rented
out. In 2014 they decided to move into the property they had previously been renting out.
They took out a remortgage through Premier who acted as their mortgage adviser. Premier
carried out an assessment of their insurance needs so that their current Landlords policy
might be changed to a home, buildings and contents policy. A personal illustration was
drawn up and the remortgage was completed. But the insurance proposal was never
completed. So Mr and Mrs O continued to have a landlords policy on their property, which
didnt cover any high value contents.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs O suffered a burglary at their home. Most of the items taken 
consisted of valuable jewellery, worth in the region of £48,000. They then discovered that 
their insurance didnt cover the loss of any of their high value contents. The insurer paid 
£2,500 for damage to the building.
Mr and Mrs O made a complaint to Premier, the premiums had kept on being taken from
their bank account so they had thought the policy was in place.
Premier admitted that it should have got in touch with Mr and Mrs O to complete the
changeover of the policy into a home policy. However it pointed out that Mr O never
contacted it to confirm the insurance illustration. It established that Mr O had been in touch
with the insurer to obtain a copy of the new policy. The insurer had sent renewal documents 
(for the landlord policy) and copies of the policy to Mr Os previous address but the occupier 
had failed to pass on anything to Mr O. It further pointed out that the illustration it had drawn 
up for Mr and Mrs O listed high risk items including valuables to a limit of £14,000 while their 
claim was for stolen jewellery worth in the region of £48,000. So theyd been substantially 
underinsured and hadnt sought to increase the valuables limit or check what it was.
On referral to this service our investigator said that whilst Premier was at fault for not
contacting Mr and Mrs O to put the new policy in place Mr O had failed to chase up or check
his policy. He proposed that Premier should just pay compensation of £200.
Premier accepted this. Mr and Mrs O did not, they pointed out that they had suffered a huge
loss because of the failure to put the policy in place.
I issued a provisional decision. I thought that Premier should pay the £200 compensation, 
but for different reasons. I said that there was a big difference in the value of the contents 
and the amount of high value items advised to Premier when drawing up the quotation and 
the amounts calimed for. For that reason I thought it was unlikely that the claim would have 
been accepted even if the right policy was in place.
Premier advised that it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept my decision. They pointed out that Premier had admitted making 
a mistake when setting up the new mortgage, by not setting up the new insurance at the 
same time. They didnt think it was fair to follow what Premier had set out in their paperwork.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Premier should have contacted Mr O to follow up its quotation for the new policy. Mr O was
an established client and they had acted for him in setting up his previous insurance. It also
acted for him in the remortgage. It would be expected to follow up on such a quotation. It
didnt do so, though it pointed out that it wouldnt have followed up on Mr Os mortgage for
five years. It has admitted it made an error.
I can understand that Mr O would have thought that, Premier having drawn up the insurance
illustration should have followed this through. And Mr and Mrs O continued to have the
premiums taken from their bank account. There is some evidence that Mr O attempted to
obtain a copy of the policy documents, which were sent by post to his old address and not
forwarded. He didnt chase this up. Nevertheless I think he was entitled to believe the policy
had been set up.
If a broker is at fault in not setting up a policy when it clearly should have, the appropriate
remedy would be to require the broker to pay for any loss the consumer suffered by not
having proper insurance in place.
Having said that I dont think Premier was at fault for Mr and Mrs O not succeeding in their
claim for theft following the burglary of their home.
According to the illustration Premier drew up for Mr and Mrs O, it was set out that they
wanted a limit of £14,000 for high risk items including valuables. It set out that the contents
were worth £40,000, including high risk items. As Ive said Mr and Mrs Os claim for
valuables exceeded £48,000. Their total contents were assessed as being worth around
£75,000. Either Mr and Mrs O had acquired a great deal of their jewellery after that quotation
and failed to contact the insurer or Premier to update their policy or they failed to give a
proper value to Premier. In either case if Mr O had contacted his insurer or Premier he would
have been able to ensure that his insurance was up to date.
If Mr and Mrs O had made a claim for £48,000 with a £14,000 limit on their valuables they
would have been underinsured by a huge amount. I think it would have been highly likely
that the insurer would have voided the policy and considered it an unacceptable risk to have
such a high proportion of valuables as a part of the total contents. This means that but for
the error in not setting up the home policy, its likely that none of the claim would have been
paid and Mr and Mrs O would have an insurance voidance placed against their record which
would have affected their ability to obtain home insurance.
Premier was at fault for not following through with the insurance and Mr and Mrs O were
clearly distressed when the insurer declined the claim on the grounds it did. For that I think it
reasonable that Premier pay compensation of £200. But for the reasons Ive set out above Idont think it was responsible for Mr and Mrs O not being able to benefit from cover following
the burglary.
I understand that Mr and Mrs O dont feel they should be bound by what was set out in the 
illustration document. Ive rechecked the evidence in this respect. That document was drawn 
up following a meeting with Mr O and the information contained in it came from him. 
Unfortunately nobody can say exactly what would have happened had the correct insurance 
been put in place. Bearing in mind that Mr O didnt chase up his new policy documents for 
over four years either through the insurer or Premier, I think it most likely that had the new 
policy been put in place it would have been one with the details from the illustration. And, as 
Ive said in my provisional findings I think it likely that, in that event, because of the 
substantial degree of underinsurance, the insurer would most likely not have paid the claim.
So my provisional findings stand and now form part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
Premier was at fault for not following through with the insurance and Mr and Mrs O were
clearly distressed when the insurer declined the claim on the grounds it did. For that I think it
reasonable that Premier pay compensation of £200. But for the reasons Ive set out above I
dont think Premier was responsible for Mr and Mrs O not being able to benefit from cover 
following the burglary.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Premier Financial Group Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs O of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman