DRN-2213346
The complaint
Miss P complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans should not have accepted her 
as a guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party (the borrower).  
What happened
The borrower was approved for a £4,000 loan by Buddy Loans. The term of the loan was 48 
months; with monthly repayments of approximately £171. 
Miss P complains Buddy Loans irresponsibly accepted her as a guarantor on a loan 
approved for a third party (the borrower). Miss P complains the loan was unaffordable to 
her, as well as complaining Buddy Loans shouldve done more checks on the borrower at 
the point of their application. Miss P says the borrower lied to her about their circumstances 
and Buddy Loans checks shouldve highlighted these. Miss P says being accepted as 
guarantor on this loan has left her in financial difficulties.
I wrote to Buddy Loans setting out my initial thoughts on this complaint. I explained that the 
information which had been presented to me so far suggested that Buddy Loans checks on 
the borrower had not been proportionate. And that those checks highlighted that the 
borrower was not a suitable applicant in the first instance. I was satisfied on balance Buddy 
Loans shouldnt have approved the borrowers application; and therefore Miss P should not 
have been accepted as a guarantor for it either.
Buddy Loans disagreed with my initial thoughts and maintained it had lent responsibly to the 
borrower. It maintains it has acted reasonably in accepting Miss P as the guarantor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ps complaint. 
Part of Miss Ps complaint is that Buddy Loans did not do sufficient checks on the borrower 
before they were approved for the loan. Miss P says the borrower lied to her about their 
circumstances.
Buddy Loans has a responsibility to complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
borrower before approving any guarantor or loan for that matter. Weve set out our thinking 
on proportionality in a number of decisions, but generally speaking these checks needed to 
be proportionate to the amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, 
amount of repayments and total length of the term. There isnt a set list of what checks 
Buddy Loans had to complete; but examples can be completing income and expenditure 
assessments and searching credit files.
In addition to that, it isnt enough for Buddy Loans to complete the checks, it also needs to 
carefully consider the information which is provided before approving any loans. Buddy 
Loans needs to ensure any decision it makes is fair; and that the borrower can afford any 
repayments sustainably. That means without having to borrow further to repay any debt or to 
incur further financial difficulties. Buddy Loans also has a responsibility to ensure any 
lending isnt increasing a borrowers overall level of indebtedness in a way which may be 
unsustainable or harmful.
As stated above this loan was for £4,000 over 48 months with monthly repayments at 
£171.10. The borrowers application suggests the loan was for a vehicle purchase. Buddy 
Loans completed an income and expenditure assessment on the borrower, as well as 
searched their credit file.
The borrower declared their income on the application as £1,848 (Buddy Loans verified this 
amount by way of payslips). The borrowers expenses were recorded as £791 for non-credit 
commitments and a further £764 on credit commitments. Buddy Loans therefore calculated a 
disposable income of around £292. The borrower also declared they are a single parent with 
two children aged four and seven years old.
The credit file search showed the borrower had difficulties maintaining their existing credit 
commitments. In the summary it indicates that the borrower had a number of defaults in the 
past, CCJs, delinquent accounts and history of arrears on accounts. The total debt at the 
time of the application was over £15,000. There was also a default for a hire purchase which 
still had over £5,000 remaining on it. The credit report also shows a high number of 
unsecured loans ranging in values from £500 to over £5,000.
Buddy Loans says its checks were proportionate and that its decision to lend was fair. 
However; having reviewed the information it was presented with by the borrower; I disagree 
the checks were proportionate. And further based on the information it did have Im satisfied 
Buddy Loans shouldnt have lent to the borrower at this stage. I say this because Im 
satisfied based on the information thats been presented; its more likely than not that the 
loan wouldve always been unaffordable to the borrower.
It is evident that they had issues managing credit in the past as evidenced by the defaults, 
CCJs, delinquent accounts and arrears. The credit file also shows that the borrower had 
either defaulted or had to borrower further in order to support their expenses on the recent 
credit they had taken out. This persuades me on balance that they were already in a cycle of 
debt before this loan was approved. 
I also find it persuasive that this loan wasnt taken out for debt consolidation purposes either; 
but instead for a vehicle purchase. This therefore means the borrower was likely increasing 
their overall level of indebtedness further. This is in addition to already having a hire 
purchase account which had an outstanding default amount on it too. 
This suggests that the borrower wasnt able to manage their finances well. The credit report 
shows there were issues maintaining credit in the past, as well as the recent past. This is 
across different credit products including unsecured loans and hire purchases. Add to that 
the high monthly repayments over a relatively long period of time compared to the 
moderately low income. It is also notable that the borrower had two young dependents, so 
any remaining surplus would also be further decreased by the potential of varying monthly 
costs required to look after their children.So taking this all into account, Im satisfied that proportionate checks werent completed; and 
even any event any further checks wouldve likely shown the loan was unaffordable. Im also 
persuaded based on the information it had, it was sufficient clear that Buddy Loans was 
increasing the overall level of indebtedness of the borrower in a way which was 
unsustainable, and as such shouldnt have been approved. 
It follows therefore that Miss P shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor for this loan; as 
it shouldnt have been approved in the first instance. Im therefore satisfied that I dont need 
to make any further finding on Miss Ps complaint as it will not materially impact the outcome 
of it. That is to say, it will not change the fact Buddy Loans should not have approved the 
borrower for this loan. 
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans:
 
To release Miss P from any obligations she has under the Guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Miss P has made towards the loan, with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Miss Ps credit file as a result of the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advancis Limited trading as Buddy 
Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman