DRN-3015594
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H (The Estate) is unhappy with the service it received from Nationwide 
Building Society surrounding requests for historical information it made to Nationwide.  
What happened
The Estate asked Nationwide for some information regarding the late Mrs Hs accounts. The 
Estate was unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide in supplying this information, 
which included some of the information requested not being provided, delays in the 
information that was provided being provided, and the need for The Estate to contact and 
chase Nationwide on multiple occasions. Because of these points, The Estate raised a 
complaint. 
Nationwide looked at the Estates complaint, but it noted that several of the requests made 
by The Estate were for information from several years ago that was no longer retained. 
However, Nationwide acknowledged that it had initially told The Estate that one piece of 
information that The Estate requested wasnt available when it later transpired that it was, 
and so Nationwide upheld that aspect of The Estates complaint and offer a compensation 
payment of £50.
The Estate wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so it referred its complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that for the most part 
Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard the difficulty that it had had in 
locating, where possible, the historical information that The Estate had requested. But our 
investigator did note another circumstance where it felt that Nationwide should have 
provided information that was eventually located to The Estate sooner than it did. Our 
investigator felt that The Estate had been inconvenienced by Nationwides actions in the 
regard and recommended that Nationwide increase its offer of compensation to The Estate 
from £50 to £200.
The Estate remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its correspondence with this service, The Estate has supplied a number of detailed 
submissions detailing its position on various aspects of this complaint. Id like to thank The 
Estate for these detailed submissions, and I hope that The Estate wont consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here.
Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the salient points of this complaint regarding 
my being able to arrive at what I feel is a fair decision here. This means that if The Estate 
notes that I havent responded to a specific point that its raised, it shouldnt be taken from 
this by The Estate that I havent read and considered that point  Indeed, I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both The Estate and Nationwide. 
Instead, it should be taken by The Estate that I have read and considered that point, but that 
I dont feel its necessary to address that point directly in order to arrive at what I consider to 
be a fair outcome here.
The Estate here is represented by the late Mrs Hs son. I note that the reason that The 
Estate requested the historical information that it did from Nationwide is largely because of a 
disagreement between the late Mrs Hs son and one of his siblings, whom the late Mrs Hs 
son believes may have obtained access historically to the account in a potentially fraudulent 
manner. This disagreement ultimately resulted in a civil court case brought by The Estate 
against the sibling in question, and The Estate contend that the failure of Nationwide to 
supply the requested historical information either in good time or at all directly led to that 
court case being dismissed in the siblings favour.
I make the distinction between The Estate and the son of the late Mrs H who represents The 
Estate because The Estate have referenced trouble and inconvenience incurred by the son 
of the late Mrs H in his handling of The Estates business. I can appreciate the personal 
difficulties that the son of the late Mrs H may have experienced while representing The 
Estate here, but I must note that as this complaint has been brought to us in the name of 
The Estate, I wouldnt be able to consider any inconvenience incurred specifically by the son 
of the late Mrs H, as ultimately the son of the late Mrs H is not the complainant in this 
instance.
Furthermore, its unusual for this service to instruct the payment of compensation for 
inconvenience to an estate, and this is because an estate is a legal entity rather than a 
person  and general speaking, its usually only people, and not legal entities, that can be 
considered as being inconvenienced. However, there can be cases where this service will 
consider that the actions or non-actions of a business have caused an estate to have been 
inconvenienced such that some compensation to an estate is warranted.
It also must be noted that a major aspect of this complaint concerns how Nationwide have 
retained and handled historical account information dating back several years. I feel that 
these aspects of The Estates complaint would be more appropriately reviewed by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) although I have considered these aspects of The 
Estates complaint during my review. I also feel it apt to confirm at this point the mandate of 
this service, which is to assess all the information available on a complaint and to decide on 
whether a fair outcome can be said to have been reached and to instruct corrective action 
and/or financial compensation if deemed appropriate.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator responded to The Estates complaint under a 
series of different headings. For ease of reference, I will follow our investigators 
methodology here and use the same headings.
Information about the account holders on the later Mrs Hs account
The Estate state that Nationwide withheld information about the who the account holders 
were on one of the accounts. It appears that on this account, the sibling whom the court 
case was brought against was added as a joint account holder several years ago. The 
Estate contend that the sibling had claimed that they had been on the account from the 
account opening, in 1986, and that if the information regarding the sibling being added as a 
joint account holder many years later than this had been provided to the Estate earlier, it 
would have influenced The Estates decision making such that it wouldnt have brought the 
civil court case that was ultimately dismissed in the siblings favour and would instead have 
referred the matter to the police.I can appreciate The Estates position here, but it must be noted that the information that 
was being sought regarding when the sibling became a joint member of the account relates 
to events that took place several years ago or further, considering that the account was 
initially opened in 1986.
Its evident that there was some confusion from Nationwide as to whether the account had 
been opened initially in 1986 as a joint account with the sibling, or whether the account had 
been opened on a single account holder basis with the sibling being added as a joint 
account holder at a later date  although Nationwide were later able to find a form adding the 
sibling as a joint account holder which resolved this point.
Im aware that The Estate is of the opinion that given that the information about the sibling 
being added as a joint account holder was eventually located, that this information should 
have been available to Nationwide from the outset. I dont share The Estates position on this 
matter, and I do feel that the fact that this information related to historically old events means 
that it was reasonable for Nationwide to have struggled to initially locate this information, and 
Im aware of the understandable difficulties that businesses face in maintaining accurate 
records of historical information following such events as mergers or computer system 
updates or migrations, especially where this information is of an age where it has not been 
accessed in many years or has passed the age where it is no longer reasonably required to 
be maintained.
However, while I note that Nationwide faced understandable difficulties in locating the 
confirmation that the sibling was added to the account subsequent to the account opening, I 
also note that considerable effort expended by The Estate in trying to obtain confirmation 
from this point from Nationwide. And while these attempts were ultimately successful, I do 
feel that The Estate was unreasonably inconvenienced by having to make the number of 
enquiries into this matter that it did.
But it doesnt follow from this that I feel that I can reasonably say that Nationwide not initially 
providing this information ultimately led to costs being incurred by The Estate for the civil 
court case which Nationwide should be considered as being accountable for. And I say this 
not only for the difficulties that Im satisfied that Nationwide had regarding their locating the 
information as refenced above, but also because its evident that The Estate requested this 
information from Nationwide on two occasions in 2018, and was provided with answers by 
Nationwide which differed on both occasions as to whether the account had been opened on 
a single or joint named basis. 
Because of this, I feel that it should have been incumbent on The Estate, having received 
such contradictory answers from Nationwide, to have sought confirmation from Nationwide 
regarding this point before initiating any court proceedings, especially given the age of the 
information being sought and the importance of the information, if it was felt by The Estate 
that this information was crucial to its decision making process in regard to initiating court 
proceedings again the sibling in question. 
Finally, I also note the position brought forward by the son of the late Mrs H, while 
representing The Estate, of the impact that this ongoing matter had on him personally. While 
I sympathise with the son of the late Mrs H here, as mentioned previously, given that this 
complaint has been brought in the name of The Estate, Im unable to consider any distress 
or inconvenience that the son of the late Mrs H might have incurred personally while dealing 
with the matters under consideration in this complaint.
Information request for the card number and Nationwides statement in letter dated 10 
February 2020In November 2019, The Estate requested the card number for the debit card used on the 
account during the period it had concerns about and was told by Nationwide at that time that 
the historical number wasnt retained and so couldnt provided to them. One month later, 
Nationwide corrected their position on this point and provided the historical card number to 
The Estate. Nationwide apologised for this point in their own response to The Estates 
complaint and made an offer of £50 compensation to The Estate.
While I appreciate that The Estate may disagree, the £50 that Nationwide have already 
offered for the late provision of this information does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
The Estate has also expressed its dissatisfaction with a statement made in a letter sent by 
Nationwide as follows:
As confirmed in my email dated 10 February 2020, I have included the information 
you have requested below. I must re-iterate again that I am unable to confirm nor 
deny whether this information was given to us under false pretences, nor am I able to 
provide any of the documentation provided at the time of the Flex Account opening 
as the account was opened in 2011.
The Estate note that the above comment wasnt requested by it from Nationwide and further 
notes that the statement was used by the representatives of the sibling in the civil court case 
as part of their defence. 
I can appreciate that The Estate might be displeased by Nationwide including this statement, 
but Im satisfied that it was a statement Nationwide were entitled to make, regardless of 
whether such comment were invited or requested, if Nationwide felt the need to clarify its 
position on the content of the information that it was being asked to provide.
Complaint about Nationwides Post Code Accreditation File (PAF) checks when an account
was opened in 2011
This aspect of The Estates complaint wasnt included in its initial submission to this service. 
As such, I will not be considering this aspect of this complaint. If The Estate still wants to 
pursue this matter it would be required to raise this issue with Nationwide directly, giving 
Nationwide the opportunity to respond, before this matter can be considered by this service.
Complaint about the information request dated 24 July 2020
In July 2020, The Estate contacted Nationwide and advised that it had presented the records 
Nationwide had provided to The Estate in the civil court case against the sibling, but that the 
siblings counsel had argued that these records amounted to hearsay. The Estate therefore 
asked Nationwide to confirm the validity of the records it had sent.
The Estate is dissatisfied that it took Nationwide nearly two months to provide the 
confirmation that it requested, and its evident that The Estate had to contact Nationwide on 
multiple occasions to chase this confirmation and that when it did so it was passed to a 
number of Nationwide staff rather than being issued with a single point of contact.
While I can sympathise with The Estates position here, it must be noted that The Estate was 
requesting that Nationwide confirm a series of historical records previously provided and had 
indicated to Nationwide that the need to do so was for a court proceeding. It therefore seems 
reasonable to me that it would take Nationwide some time to be able to achieve this request 
and to issue the confirmation that The Estate was seeking here, and I dont feel that the time taken by Nationwide to issue this confirmation was unduly excessive, given the 
circumstances.
Furthermore, Im also satisfied that the request that The Estate made in this regard entailed 
a natural degree of inconvenience for The Estate, and I dont feel that Nationwides actions 
exacerbated this natural degree of inconvenience by any unreasonable degree. 
Summary
Having reviewed all the information available to me regarding his complaint, I find that Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator here, and for largely the same reasons. 
I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude that Nationwide have caused The Estate to incur 
losses that Nationwide should be considered as being accountable for, but I do feel that 
there were occasions where Nationwide took longer to confirm or provide information to The 
Estate than was reasonable such that The Estate did incur a degree of inconvenience. This 
means that Ill be upholding this complaint against Nationwide on that limited basis only and 
instructing Nationwide to make a payment of £200 to The Estate, which I feel represents a 
fair amount of compensation to The Estate in light of all the inconvenience it incurred.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that The Estate was wanting here, but I trust its 
representatives will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
   
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £200 to The Estate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman