DRN-2733870
The complaint
Miss B complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) did not do the relevant 
checks before it lent to her.
What happened
Miss B took out a £200 loan with Mr Lender on 29 January 2017. It was due to be repaid 
over six months, with the final instalment due on 28 July 2017. The highest monthly 
repayment was £80 but Miss B repaid the loan on 4 March 2017.
Miss B says Mr Lender didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks and she suffered 
financial hardship as a result of the loan because she couldnt afford the repayments.
Mr Lender says it asked Miss B about her income and expenditure and considered 
information provided by a third-party credit reference agency. It says its checks were 
proportionate to the circumstances of the loan and that Miss B repaid it early.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Mr 
Lender carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available information 
to indicate Miss B was struggling to manage her money.
Miss B responded to say that she disagreed with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that lending was sustainable for the consumer. The factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting a risk of repeated refinancing 
signalling the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might indicate a consumer could 
sustainably make repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case as the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being without undue difficulty. In 
particular a customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow further. And it follows that a lender 
should realise, or ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
When Miss B applied for the loan Mr Lender asked her about her income and expenditure 
and Ive seen the results of its credit check. Miss M said her income was £1,000 with £850 of 
expenditure. Miss Ms payslips show her net income averaged around £1,100 per month. As 
the monthly repayments on the loan were between £40 and £80 per month, I consider it 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have found the loan affordable. This was Miss Bs first loan and 
the maximum scheduled repayment was 8% of her income. As the credit check showed no 
negative information on Miss Bs credit file, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender 
went far enough. So, I cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman