DRN-3165154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) made it 
difficult for them to apply to increase their overdraft facility during the Covid-19 pandemic 
and its staff were unhelpful on the phone.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have two accounts with first direct account A and  account B which both 
had overdraft facilities of £2,500, however account B  used to have an overdraft facility of 
£5,000 but the limit was reduced when Mr and Mrs G took a personal loan. Although Mr and 
Mrs G repaid the personal loan, they kept account Bs facility at £2,500.
Mr and Mrs G have rental properties and rely on rental income from these. At the start of the 
Covid-19 pandemic the government advised landlords that they would need to make 
allowances for tenants who werent able to pay their rent. In anticipation of encountering 
issues with their rental income, Mr and Mrs G wanted first direct to increase the overdraft 
facility on B back to £5,000.
Mr G requested this by telephone. He explained to the initial call handler why he wanted to 
do this and gave some details. He was then transferred through to the lending department 
where he was asked for further information to support this application. Although Mr G 
answered all the questions he was asked in this call, the lending department were not able 
to give him a decision and referred his application through to the underwriting team.
An underwriter called Mr G back and explained that in order to make her decision she would 
need to do an income and expenditure check with Mr G and would also need to do a check 
of his credit file. She informed him this would take around 30 minutes. Mr G was unhappy 
with this, he said he'd already provided information on his first call and didn't see why he 
should have to provide it again. The underwriter offered to try to contact the person Mr G 
had spoken to within the lending department to see if she could gather the information 
together to help him and call him back. Mr G was not happy with this and insisted on staying 
on the line while this was done. He was placed on hold, and unfortunately the call was 
disconnected. Before Mr G was placed on hold, he had said he felt first direct was being 
unhelpful and asked to speak to manager.
An underwriting manager called Mr G back and tried to explain that while first direct wanted 
to help there was a need for checks to be carried out and asked Mr G to tell him a bit about 
his circumstances. Mr G wasnt prepared to share this information as he said he had already 
provided it and first direct had years and years of his banking history. He went onto say that 
if first direct wasnt prepared to help him in this time of crisis on the basis of that history then 
he wanted no part of it.
Mr G was particularly upset with the following commentary from this particular call:
FD: Irrespective of the situation with the Covid-19 we want to try and help 
customers
Mr G Interrupts:  So that has no relevance at all - is that what you're saying?
FD:No thats not what Im saying
MR G interrupts:Im going to end the call on that note that's not satisfactory I will take it 
up with the Chief Executive could you have someone from their office 
call me back please thank you very much end of call
Mr G then hangs up the phone. He later made a complaint to first direct about the service 
and asked for a copy of the call recording. Mr G also asked for the overdrafts from A and B 
to be merged and available on B.
First direct merged the overdrafts as had been requested but didn't uphold the complaint, it 
didn't feel it had acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs G when asking for additional information 
in order to approve an increase to the overdraft facility. First direct initially declined to send 
Mr G a copy of the call he had requested, it said in order to send this it would need a 
member of staff to go into the office and so was asking all of its customers to refrain from 
requesting call recordings unless absolutely necessary. But it later agreed to send it  at 
which point Mr G pointed out all the call recordings should be sent. The latter request was 
reluctantly actioned after first direct had dealt with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and had issued 
its final response.
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy with first directs response and brought their complaint to 
this service. In addition to the points already considered by first direct, Mr and Mrs G raised 
that Mr G had needed to chase first direct on numerous occasions to get answers to his 
complaint, didn't feel the complaint was handled well and felt first directs staff members had 
been bullying in their manner.
The investigator that looked into Mr and Mrs G's complaint, didn't uphold it. In summary they 
said:
businesses have a responsibility to ensure lending is done responsibly, as long as 
the information the lender is asking for is reasonable for the credit, we wouldn't 
interfere with the application process.
He understood that Mr and Mrs G would have liked a speedy resolution to their 
request but didn't feel the information first direct was asking for was unfair.
Having listened to calls he didn't agree that the advisers were rude
aside from the overdraft application, he understood Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with 
how first direct handled the complaint, but complaint handling isn't a regulated activity 
and so wasn't something he could comment on.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed, saying they didn't agree that this service couldn't look at how 
complaints are handled, and didn't feel the investigator addressed the way Mr G was spoken 
to on the telephone. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. Having done so I won't be upholding this complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator, I'll explain. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
My role here is not to say how first direct should process its applications, but rather to see 
that it is doing so fairly, reasonably and with its obligations for responsible lending in mind.
I accept Mr and Mrs G found it very frustrating that first direct was insisting on following its 
process of completing an income and expenditure and credit reference check in order to be 
able to increase their overdraft facility. And I understand why they feel, as this was 
something they had previously, it should have been a relatively simple process. I also 
understand their confusion that first direct were able to merge the facilities of A and B 
without the need for a check. 
First direct has an obligation to make sure it acts responsibly when increasing any lending 
facilities for its customers and this obligation did not change during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
There was guidance from the financial regulator, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) around 
what credit providers should do to help customers in financial difficulties. These included 
things like payment holidays. However, the guidance did not say credit providers should 
guarantee to increase lines of credit. Given this I dont believe it was unreasonable for first 
direct to insist on completing checks in its normal manner, in order to process Mr and Mrs 
Gs request to increase their lending facility. So, I can't fairly say it did anything wrong in how 
it treated Mr and Mrs G in regard to their application.
Turning to the merging of the overdraft facilities on A and B, I'm satisfied with its explanation 
that no credit checks were needed in order to merge the facilities on A and B as this did not 
lead to extra credit being provided. It was merely a case of moving the facility from one 
account to the other.
I have listened to a range of calls as well as reading the call notes and am satisfied that the 
intention of the first direct staff has been to help Mr and Mrs G throughout. But that they 
needed to follow the banks procedures when trying to do so. Having said that, Ive paid 
particular attention to two calls.
Firstly, the call between Mr G and the underwriting manager, with the comment irrespective 
of the situation with Covid-19 which particularly upset Mr G. In this call I don't believe the 
underwriting manager intended any disrespect with this comment and think if Mr G had let 
him finish what he was saying he would have been able to expand on what he meant. But as 
Mr G ended the call following the comment, he prevented this from being possible. 
And secondly, the call where providing the call recordings was discussed. I have to agree 
that this call did get fraught at times and I can understand why Mr G felt aggrieved by it. 
While I understand it was difficult and inconvenient to arrange for someone to attend the 
office to enable Mr G to have copies of the call, it was clearly possible as one such recording 
had already been sent. So, I dont think it was appropriate that the agent tried to make Mr G 
feel guilty for the request. I believe he could have handled the call better while still getting 
across the point. Had he done so; the call may have ended on a better note.
That being said I think its important to keep in mind that the events here happened in May 
2020 which was still during the earlier stages of the Covid-19 pandemic. Businesses were 
following significant restrictions on their normal operation and the rules and guidance were 
frequently changing.Businesses, such as banks, also had to adapt so they could continue to offer essential 
services and their customers also had to adjust their everyday lives. This, inevitably, had an 
impact on the service offered. The pandemic itself presented huge challenges and these 
were  and, in my view, still are  unprecedented times for everyone. So, I can understand 
why first direct were reluctant to send someone to the office in order for the recordings to be 
provided to Mr G. And I do agree that it wasnt necessary for him to have them in order to 
bring his complaint to this service which is what the agent on the call was trying to explain. 
The role of the ombudsman service is to decide if a business has done something wrong 
and if it has, we ask them to put it right, by putting the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in had the error not occurred. We are not here to punish the business and 
often find that some mistakes do not warrant financial compensation and an apology is 
enough. 
 
Taking everything into account, I can see communications between Mr G and first direct 
have caused frustrations on both sides, with both sides letting those frustrations show at 
different times. However, overall, I dont believe first direct has treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly 
in its dealings with their accounts even though it wasnt as seamless as it would have been 
in normal times. It has apologised for the service and I believe this to be sufficient in the 
circumstances. 
And while I think the very last call between the two parties could have been handled better, I 
dont think it was to the level where it warrants compensation. 
I know Mr and Mrs G have raised other points about the way first direct handed their 
complaint and including delays and having to chase responses, but complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity and as such does not fall under our jurisdiction. This means I do not have 
the power to investigate this and so I havent looked into these points any further.
I know Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we 
 in trying to resolve their dispute with first direct - can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman