DRN-2410881
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC wont provide him with a more detailed breakdown of 
certain deposits into his account.
What happened
Mr Ts accountant asked him to get additional information on deposits into his Lloyds 
accounts, both personal and business, which involved a breakdown of whether the money 
paid in was by cheque  or partially involved a cheque payment. Based on Lloyds records, 
this was first discussed with it in May 2017, but the information wasnt provided at this time 
as Lloyds said this information wasnt available. The conversation was on-going and in 
December 2019 Lloyds issued a final response saying it couldnt provide this information for 
Mr T. All the accounts in question were closed in 2017.
Mr T brought his complaint to our service and continued to correspond with Lloyds on the 
matter. Lloyds didnt provide the information Mr T was asking for, but he was given some 
conflicting information by staff members. He originally understood the information wasnt 
recorded on Lloyds system, so couldnt be provided. But it later seemed that it was possibly 
recorded, but that Lloyds wouldnt provide it to him. So he wanted this clarified and felt if 
Lloyds did hold the information, it had an obligation to provide it to him.
Our investigator ultimately didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that what Mr T was asking 
for couldnt be provided in a reasonable way, so it wasnt a request Lloyds needed to fulfil. 
Mr T disagreed and quoted a rule from the Banking: Code of Business Sourcebook 
(BCOBS) and explained how this supported his position. But our investigator didnt agree his 
request came under appropriate information. Mr T disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint has developed while its been with our service. Our role is to determine the 
crux of the matter, which in this case is whether or not Lloyds can and should be providing 
Mr T with a more detailed breakdown of certain deposits to his accounts, so he can identify 
when cheques were paid in.
Lloyds has explained to our service why it isnt possible for it to easily provide the 
information Mr T is asking for. The standard statements it produces, as Mr T is aware, record 
when a deposit is made into the account, but not in what form/s this money was paid in by 
(e.g. cash, cheque or both). And so a more detailed breakdown isnt a service it provides 
normally  or one it can easily provide. I understand part of Mr Ts issue is that some staff 
members have told him Lloyds can see the information hes asking for, but then hes also 
been repeatedly told it cant provide this. So Ive reviewed whats happened to date to work 
out which information is correct.
I accept that Mr T has been given some mixed information  and at times Lloyds couldve 
been clearer with what it told him. But ultimately, Im satisfied it cant simply provide what 
hes asking of it. For example while it may be able to see the detail hes asking for on some 
transactions, this isnt guaranteed  and determining this would be a manual process. Lloyds 
hasnt agreed to provide this level of (almost) accounting service within the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ts accounts. As its something its not willing to do for him, Lloyds wasnt 
technically wrong when it explained it wouldnt provide the information, rather than on the 
occasions it suggested it could/might. So Ive then considered the banking rules and whether 
these mean that despite the difficulties involved for Lloyds, and its refusal to do so, it should 
in fact be providing what Mr Ts asking for, where it can. 
Mr T explained to us he had a call with the regulator and in this call the FCA agent supported 
his assertion that BCOBS sets out Lloyds must provide the service he is asking for. Prior to 
our service receiving this call, our investigator has already set out to Mr T why the rule set 
out under BCOBS 4.1.1 doesnt mean he will get the service hes asking for from Lloyds  
and referenced BCOBS 4.1.5 to support this. BCOBS 4.1 Enabling banking customers to 
make informed decisions says:
BCOBS 4.1.1
A firm must provide or make available to a banking customer appropriate 
information about a retail banking service and any deposit made in relation to 
that retail banking service:
(1) in good time;
(2) in an appropriate medium; and
(3) in easily understandable language and in a clear and comprehensible 
form; so that the banking customer can make decisions on an informed basis.
BCOBS 4.1.5
The information required by the appropriate information rule may vary 
according to matters such as:
(1) the banking customer's likely or actual commitment;
(2) the information needs of a reasonable recipient having regard to the type 
of retail banking service that is proposed or provided and its overall 
complexity, main benefits, risks, limitations, conditions and duration;
(3) distance communication information requirements (for example, under the 
distance communication rules less information can be given during certain 
telephone sales than in a sale made purely by written correspondence 
(see BCOBS 3.1)); and
(4) whether the same information has been provided to the banking 
customer previously and, if so, when that was.
Ive listened to the call between Mr T and the FCA agent, but it doesnt change the outcome 
of this complaint. The FCA agent doesnt comment on Mr Ts specific case in the call  and 
weve already explained to him how the above rules apply to his case.
At the start of the call the agent makes it clear hes not able to interpret the regulations for 
Mr T. And while he listens to Mr T in the call and acknowledges what the above sourcebook 
says, at no time does he agree with how Mr T has applied this to his personal situation. The 
agent makes it clear on more than one occasion he cant do this. I accept he agrees that 
BCOBS 4.1.1 is the rule and 4.1.5 is guidance; and that the guidance doesnt supersede the 
rule. But at no point has our service or Lloyds suggested it does, so this is not in dispute. Im 
satisfied weve already correctly understood and interpreted this rule, so the call provides no 
new information to this case. In the call with Mr T the agent mentions appropriateness, and this is ultimately whats key in 
Mr Ts case. Mr T considers the information hes asking for appropriate and so, as per the 
above rule, hes entitled to it. Lloyds doesnt agree with this and our service has also 
determined whats being asked for is not appropriate. The word appropriate isnt defined, 
which is why further guidance is provided below the rule to help businesses and consumers 
understand how the rule applies in practice  BCOBS 4.1.5. And Im in agreement with our 
investigator that Lloyds hasnt breached BCOBS rule 4.1.1 in not providing Mr T with the 
transaction information hes requested, as it isnt appropriate information.
Mr T is looking for detailed transaction information that goes back a number of years. I dont 
agree this request fits within the information needs of a reasonable recipient.
While Mr T has said he has business bank accounts, the final response to this complaint 
was in relation to personal accounts, and yet the reason he needs the information is for 
business purposes. So the information hes asking for in relation to personal accounts is 
beyond the scope of these accounts and not something you would expect an average 
customer using this account to need. And even for business accounts, Lloyds has said this 
isnt a service thats provided. Mr T is asking for information going back to 2014 on accounts 
that closed in 2017. It seems highly unlikely a reasonable consumer using these accounts as 
designed would need this level of information. And as soon as you move away from 
standard process and the terms of an account, and into bespoke or unusual requests, as per 
the above guidance, whats considered appropriate can vary. And so I dont agree the 
information Mr Ts requesting does fall under BCOBS 4.1.1.
Simply put, Lloyds cant provide all of the information Mr T is asking of it  as it cant 
accurately breakdown some deposits into cheque or cash (or both). And to provide the 
limited information it does have would require a member of staff to manually go through 
transactions on Mr Ts accounts going back a number of years. I dont agree this is an 
appropriate or proportionate exercise for Lloyds to complete  especially when Mr T doesnt 
have everything it requires to more efficiently do this review. And this isnt a service it 
committed to providing when it agreed to have Mr T as a customer. I understand why Mr T 
wants this information, especially considering the financial cost hes reported for not having 
these records and that the records he did keep were unfortunately destroyed. But it isnt for 
Lloyds to now offer a service far beyond what it contracted to, to reconcile the fact he now 
doesnt have copies of this information. 
Ive thought about the way Lloyds has handled Mr Ts request for this information, but I dont 
consider he is due compensation.
Lloyds final response to Mr T was clear about what information it could provide him  and 
that it wouldnt be providing what hed asked for. He then continued to correspond with 
Lloyds on the matter and, in a later call, was given some conflicting information and advised 
to visit a branch to get what he wanted. I accept that this gave Mr T some false hope, as the 
branch couldnt help him, but it does seem the branch couldve potentially provided some 
further information, though not exactly what Mr T wanted.
While I accept Mr Ts expectations were mismanaged for a short while, Im satisfied the 
agent was trying to find a solution to Mr Ts problem  and as per the final response, if Mr T 
had more information on the transactions, then a branch may have been able to give him 
more details. But, in any event, at this point Mr T had been told over 18 months earlier that 
Lloyds couldnt provide this information. And hed received a final response also saying what 
he was asking for wasnt available  but despite this he chose to keep contacting Lloyds. So 
while there was some confusion, Im not satisfied this warrants compensation, as Lloyds had 
been clear with Mr T on a number of occasions, but he chose to keep going back to it.I have read the documentation Mr T has provided and so understand hes been through a 
very difficult time, which has had a great impact on his health. But I dont agree that Lloyds 
needs to provide the information hes asked for. So I cant attribute any of this to Lloyds 
actions, as I dont consider its done anything wrong in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman