DRN-2384502
The complaint
Mrs J is represented by her son, Mr J. She is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited wont 
pay her home insurance claim for storm damage to her roof and inside her property.
What happened
In February 2020 after a heavy storm Mrs J made a claim to Aviva as there was water 
leaking in to her home through the roof. Aviva sent out a surveyor to review the damage. 
They found that the roof had had previous repairs of poor quality and that several slates 
were broken. The surveyors view was that the damage wasnt due to a one-off event and 
that the storm had merely highlighted the existing damage. It wouldnt consider the internal 
damage as it said Mrs J didnt have accidental damage cover under her policy.
Mrs J complained to this service, pointing out that Avivas surveyor had only looked at ther 
roof from the ground. Mr J further said that the roof aerial had blown down during the storm 
and atht this was likely to have caused the damage to the roof.
Our investigator thought that Aviva had acted reasonably.
Mr J disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator advised, when assessing whether there is storm damage under a home 
insurance policy, we ask three questions. Its only if the answer to each of those questions is 
"Yes that it is most likely that we would tell an insurer to deal with a claim as storm damage. 
The questions are:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
The cover applies to a one off storm event. We say a storm generally involves violent winds 
accompanied by rain hail or snow. The weather records for the day in question say there 
was a maximum wind gust of 60 mph and heavy rainfall during that 24 hour period. There 
were in my view clearly storm conditions on or about the date of the claim..
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
For the external damage its alleged that the tiles were dislodged and/or that the aerial blew 
down. I dont think the damage to the tiles is consistent with storm damage despite the 
intensity of the rain, but I think that high winds could cause an aerial to be dislodged.
For the internal damage, this is consistent with storm damage caused by heavy rain.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
For the external damage, I think it was sufficient to carry out an inspection from the ground, 
as clear photos were taken. Avivas surveyor noted that:
There were a number of previous repairs with metal straps and mastic which suggests 
the roof is suffering from nail fatigue. 
There was a poor quality repair in line with the internal damage, the slate used in the 
metal strap repair is too small. 
A number of slates had broken and eroded edges due to normal age related 
deterioration.
I think the roof looked to be poorly maintained and that there was general deterioration due 
to wear and tear. The storm in my view was unlikely to have caused the damage.
Mr J says the aerial blew down and pierced the roof. Ive seen the photo of the roof with the 
aerial lying on it but its not clear whether any damage was caused by it. Avivas surveyor 
commented The tv aerial has left the chimneystack and is sat on the roof, the insured 
advised the aerial is not in use and does not know how long this has been on the roof. Im 
not persuaded by the evidence that the roof was damaged during the storm by the aerial.
For the internal damage I think the same applies. The roof was damaged due to wear and 
tear and poor maintenance which in turn caused the internal damage during a period of 
heavy rain. I dont think the storm was the main cause of the internal damage.
accidental damage
The surveyors report said that Mrs J didnt have extended accidental damage cover, but its 
clear from her policy schedule that she does. But there are exclusions under this cover for 
damage caused by wear and tear and more importantly by weather conditions, so the claim 
cant be considered under accidental damage, in respect of either the external or internal 
damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman