The complaint 
Mr S complains that the redress hes previously been paid by Mercer Limited (through a 
predecessor company) to compensate him for the unsuitable advice he was given to transfer 
his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension (PP) is inadequate 
and unfair. He says his pension will be much less than it wouldve been, had he not been 
advised to transfer out of his employers OPS.
What happened
In 1998, Sedgwick Noble Lowndes, a predecessor of Mercers, looked at the advice Mr S 
was given in 1991 to transfer benefits out of his OPS. To keep things simple, Ill refer to the 
business as Mercer in the rest of this decision. Mercer reviewed Mr Ss situation as part of 
the industry-wide pensions review, which had been set up following the wide spread mis-
selling of pension plans.
At the time Mr S transferred his pension  in 1991, his OPS expected to pay him a pension of 
£25,356 at retirement. His transfer value at the time was £18,286.31. He says he was told, 
on a conservative estimate, if he transferred into the PP, he could expect to receive a 
pension of around £39,000 at retirement. 
Following Mercers review, and acknowledgement  that the advice Mr S had received to 
transfer was unsuitable, Mr S asked to be re-instated in his OPS. However, the OPS would 
not allow this. So, Mercer said it made Mr S an offer, in line with the methodology set out in 
the pensions review guidance, which he went on to accept. Mr Ss pension provider 
confirmed payment was received in October 1999 of £22,620. 72. Mercer said this 
represented 56% of Mr Ss pension.
In 2018, as retirement approached, Mr S was informed that his PP had a value of £92,761 
and would pay a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of £9,511 per annum at state 
retirement age.  
He complained to Mercer because this was substantially less than he was expecting, and 
what he wouldve received from his OPS had he remained a member. He said the redress 
he had previously accepted was supposed to put him back in the position he wouldve been 
in, but for the unsuitable advice. Mercer didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint because it said it had 
paid redress through the pensions review in line with the regulators guidance and therefore 
had met its obligations.
Mr S didnt agree and brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator explained our usual approach meant that he didnt think Mr Ss complaint 
ought to be upheld. This was because the regulator had intended the pension review 
exercise to be a one off, final exercise. The redress paid was not intended to be ongoing or 
reviewable. The redress methodology was intended to put consumers back as close to the 
DRN-1868513position that they wouldve otherwise been in, but for the unsuitable advice. In many cases, 
as with Mr Ss, putting them back in the same position wasnt achievable, as they couldnt be 
reinstated into their OPS.
Our adjudicator explained, the methodology used, as provided by the then financial services 
regulator, included a number of assumptions. Many of those assumptions were based on 
circumstances that prevailed and were foreseeable in the 1990s. But, things hadn't turned 
out that way. Our adjudicator explained some of those differences, such as life expectancy 
increasing and interest rate reductions, meaning that the cost of providing a pension had 
increased. 
In the letter from Mr Ss adviser in 1991, the illustration of a £39,000 pension, was based on 
a 13% investment return, which was described as conservative. Our adjudicator explained 
interest rates didnt reach anywhere near this level, and are currently almost zero.
Our adjudicator explained that although a number of the assumptions used for calculations 
in the pension review havent been borne out, this didnt mean they were wrong at the time, 
or that this was something wed look into further now. 
In conclusion, our adjudicator found that in 1999 Mr Ss redress appeared fair based on 
the assumptions used in the pensions review methodology, but due to unforeseen changes, 
the compensation provided has turned out not to be enough.
The adjudicator acknowledged that a number of people have found themselves in the same 
situation. But highlighted that the methodology had been set by the then regulator and 
businesses had been required to follow this. The assumptions were deemed to be 
reasonable at the time to assess prospective, future loss. He said it was not possible to 
review things now, as Mercer had fulfilled its obligations at the time to provide Mr S with 
what was considered fair redress, and Mr S had accepted that redress.
The adjudicator also explained how Mr S could have the original calculations checked; but 
said he had not seen anything to indicate the pensions redress methodology hadnt been 
followed.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. So, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I recognise Mr S's disappointment at finding he will receive a lower pension now, having 
transferred out of his OPS all those years ago. I realise that he reasonably believed, based 
on what he was told at the time, he would be no worse off, because thats what the redress 
methodology was aiming to deliver. Having said all of that, it seems to me that Mercer did 
what it was required to do as part of the pension review in 1999 to compensate Mr S for his 
loss. It was a one off final exercise, so it would not be appropriate or fair for me to review 
things now because Mr S finds himself worse off as a result of the assumptions set by the 
regulator not materialising in practice. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests to me Mercer didnt follow the regulators pensions review 
methodology when it made payment to him in October 1999. Our adjudicator has explained 
to Mr S how he might go about verifying these calculations, if he wishes to do so.Like our adjudicator, I do empathise with the position Mr S finds himself in. But, I am 
satisfied that likely Mercer did what was required of it at the time under the pensions review, 
and although now the amount of redress paid has proven to be insufficient to restore Mr S to 
the same or similar position that he wouldve been in, due to unforeseen circumstances, I 
cant fairly ask Mercer to pay Mr S any more redress.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Mercer Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman