DRN-3946700
The complaint
Mr K complains that the warranty financed through a finance agreement with Black Horse 
Limited wasnt cancelled when he requested. 
What happened
Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in October 2021 to acquire a 
car. Additional to the acquisition of the car, Mr K acquired a warranty. The cost of the 
warranty was recorded as £900 and when including the cost of the credit, the total amount 
payable for the warranty was around £1,142. This was repayable over 48 months.
Mr K says that after agreeing to the warranty he contacted the dealership to cancel it. He 
says this should have happened and he wants the cost refunded along with the interest 
charged. 
Black Horse says that while it financed the warranty, the warranty was arranged by the 
dealership and it had previously told Mr K that he would need to contact the dealership if he 
wished to cancel the warranty. Black Horse says that Mr K contacted it on 3 November and 
said he would contact the dealership about his concerns. Mr K did this on 4 November and 
the dealership responded on the same day. On 5 November Mr K contacted the dealership 
again and it responded on 9 November saying if Mr K was still unhappy and wanted to 
cancel his policy it would need a request in writing and it would look into this. A follow up 
email was sent to Mr K on 19 November 2021 and Black Horse says the dealership 
confirmed it didnt receive instructions to cancel the warranty.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Mr K hadnt made the request to 
cancel the warranty within the first 14 days and so she didnt think that Black Horse was 
required to reimburse its cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse has said that this complaint is for the dealership to address. I understand the 
point it has made as this complaint is about the cancellation of the warranty and Mr K 
needed to discuss this with the dealership (Mr K has raised a separate complaint about the 
sale of the warranty). That said, I understand Mr K feels the finance for the warranty should 
be refunded due to his wish to cancel it and so I have considered whether the actions taken 
by Black Horse in response to Mr Ks request were reasonable.
I can see that Mr K was upset by issues to do with the warranty  specifically the interest 
charge and the cap on labour costs. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need 
to be satisfied that Black Horse had done something wrong in regard to Mr Ks request to 
cancel the warranty.
Mr Ks agreement sets out that he has 14 days to withdraw from the agreement which would 
bring the finance agreement to an end, but it sates this doesnt necessarily mean that he can 
pull out of buying the vehicle or any insurance products / extras. I have therefore looked at 
the details in the warranty cover document. This sets out that the holder has the right to 
cancel at any time within the 14 days from the date of purchase and receive a full refund. 
After this period no refund will be made. 
The agreement was signed on 14 October 2021. Mr K initially contacted Black Horse on 3 
November 2021 which was outside of the 14-day period. At this point I find it reasonable that 
Black Horse directed Mr K to the dealership as it was the dealership that arranged the 
warranty. Mr K contacted the dealership on 4 November and even though the contact was 
outside of the 14-day withdrawal period, the dealership said it could consider Mr Ks request 
but this would be needed in writing. I have no evidence that Mr K wrote to the dealership to 
request the cancellation of the warranty despite the dealership following up with Mr K on 19 
November. As I have nothing to show that Black Horse was told to remove the warranty from 
the finance agreement, I cannot say that Black Horse has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman