DRN-1756924
The complaint
Mr T  on behalf of D Ltd  complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have declined 
his public liability claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr T holds a business protection policy with AXA that covers his company against public 
liability claims. His company was contracted to fit around 80 wet rooms in a new 
development. But the work completed was subsequently found to be defective because the 
shower trays had not been fitted correctly, resulting in water draining away from the drainage 
hole and pooling in the bathroom. 
A claim was made against D Ltd to rectify the defective shower trays, which required them to 
gain access to the floor voids by cutting through the plasterboard ceiling below each 
installation, which would then need to be re-patched and redecorated once the work had 
been completed. The total cost of the rectification works was estimated to be within the 
region of £40,000 to £50,000, so Mr T made a claim under his policy for public liability cover. 
AXA declined Mr Ts claim, however, as his legal liability did not arise from any accidental 
damage, but rather as a result of having to rectify defective workmanship, which was 
excluded under the policy. Mr T accepted that the cost of rectifying the works he carried out 
would not be covered, but he claimed that AXA ought to cover the secondary costs of cutting 
through the ceiling as well as redecorating, as he had not completed these works.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint, as he was satisfied that the secondary 
works were not covered under the policy given that it stemmed from the need to fix the 
issues with the work D Ltd had carried out. Mr T disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions state:
Indemnity
The Company will indemnify the Insured against all sums that the insured shall 
become legally liable to pay as damages and costs and expenses of claimants in 
respect of accidental
(b) loss or damage to material property
occurring within the Territorial Limits during the Period of Insurance and happening in 
connection with the Business.There is also an exclusion that applies to this policy in respect of rectification costs:
Rectification Costs
(a) in respect of the cost or value of any Works Executed or replacement repair 
removal rectification or reinstatement thereof where legal liability arises from a defect 
in or the unsuitability of such Works Executed.
Mr T accepts that the cost of rectifying the defective shower trays is not covered under the 
policy as it was work executed by him. But he submits that AXA have unfairly declined to 
cover the secondary costs of cutting through the ceiling/redecorating etc as this was not 
work that was executed by him.
The loss adjuster repot sets out what work is required to reinstall the shower trays:
In order to undertake remedial works, the flooring within each bathroom requires lifting to 
expose the shower tray which then also requires lifting so that the hole in the plywood can 
be increased in size to incorporate the fitting of the shower tray
Therefore, when each shower tray is fitted, the Insured will be required to access the floor 
void by cutting through the plasterboard ceiling below each installationThis will leave a 
hole in the ceiling
Therefore, there will be an additional cost of re-patching and re-decorating 80 pieces of 
ceiling which will need to be accessed to fully undertake remedial works.
So it is clear that the secondary work is only necessary in order to rectify the defective 
shower trays. However, the public liability section of Mr Ts policy only covers legal liability 
attaching to accidental loss or damagein connection with the business. And the 
secondary work thats needed here is not a repair thats required as a result of any 
accidental or resulting damage to third-party property caused by the work Mr T carried out 
(such as an escape of water damaging the ceiling, for example). It is damage that has to be 
done in order to rectify the defects, so it cannot reasonably be classed as accidental.
Therefore  and notwithstanding the fact that the secondary works are not works executed 
by Mr T  there is simply no insured event here for the policy to respond to. So I need not 
consider whether the secondary work is caught by any policy exclusion, as there is no cover 
available under any policy provision in the first place. As such, I do not consider AXA to have 
declined the claim unfairly, and I will not be directing them to do anything further
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T  on behalf 
of D Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman