DRN-2588326
The complaint
Mr J complains about the customer service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) when he visited a branch.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr J visited a Nationwide branch (branch A). He says he wanted to pay cash 
into his savings account but was unable to do so. He says the branch adviser was rude and 
provided inaccurate information as to why he wasnt allowed to deposit his money. The 
following day Mr J travelled to another Nationwide branch (branch B) and was able to 
complete the transaction. Mr J thought branch A had failed to comply with the account terms 
and conditions and treated him unfairly, so he complained. 
Nationwide responded to say it didnt agree it had treated Mr J unfairly. It said that in trying 
to safeguard its staff and customers through the pandemic, it was only allowing customers to 
enter the branch to complete essential transactions. In its view paying money into a savings 
account wasnt essential and said that branch B allowed it as an exception. Mr J remained of 
the opinion hed been treated unfairly so he brought his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. 
The investigator concluded, in summary, that paying money into a savings account wasnt 
an essential transaction and therefore thought branch A had acted reasonably when it 
declined Mr Js request. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained that due to the outbreak of the pandemic it made the decision to 
limit the number of customers in branches. Nationwide has said to do this it only allowed 
customers to attend branch when they required essential services. This was common 
across the industry and in-line with government guidelines. I dont think it was wrong for 
Nationwide to limit branch visits in the way it did. 
Mr J was understandably disappointed when branch A declined his request to pay money 
into his savings account over the counter. But I think it was reasonable for the branch staff to 
think it wasnt an essential transaction. I say this because there appears to have been no 
urgent need for the money to be paid into Mr Js savings account. Branch B agreed to let 
Mr J pay in his money. This wasnt because it considered Mr Js transaction essential. 
Instead, it was an exception. I dont consider the actions of branch B to contradict the actions 
of branch A. 
Im aware a similar set of events occurred a short time later. But in my view the same 
principles as above apply. In any case, I think Mr J ought reasonably to have been on notice 
a second or third deposit might not be accepted and therefore ought reasonably to have 
made alternative arrangements. 
Overall, I see Mr Js point of view. Paying money into a savings account in a branch is 
normal banking. But these were unusual times. With that in mind, and for the reasons set out 
above, I think Nationwide treated him fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman