DRN-4339724
The complaint
Mr F complains he has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to peer 
(P2P) lending platform. He says the sale of his loan portfolio has been completed without 
paying him the fair value of his investments. 
What happened
Mr F held P2P lending accounts for a number of years on Zopas platform and invested 
funds in return for interest.  
On 7 December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer 
investments and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to 
buy Mr Fs loan portfolio at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers had already 
paid up to the date of sale) and said hed receive his investment balance back by 31 January 
2022.
Shortly after receiving this notice, Mr F complained as he felt the decision made was made 
on beneficial terms to Zopa as it would benefit from future interest on the loans and it 
was to the detriment of its investors like himself. He questioned the legality of the decision 
and said Zopa had made changes to its principles without telling him. 
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- The more stringent conduct rules introduced by the FCA in December 2019 were 
material to the decision to close the platform. The new regulation included the 
requirement to test prospective customers on their understanding of the risks of 
investing in P2P loans and certify both new and existing investors. This has made it 
more expensive to run the platform. And it had seen a decline in the P2P market in 
recent years. All of this meant the directors considered the ongoing commercial 
viability of the business.
- In relation to Mr Fs comments around future income, investments are not a 
guaranteed source of income. Whilst Mr F may have received future income from his 
loans, there is also a chance that he would incur some losses. As part of the sale, 
Zopa purchased all active loans at face value, including loans in arrears and 
therefore may not repay in full.
- Zopa was purchasing his loans at face value is a fair price and is the best outcome 
for investors as the purchase will lock in any returns already earned and ensure 
funds are available to withdraw in a timely manner, rather than having to wait for the 
investment balance to drip feed back over several years.
- It updated its Investor Principles in December 2020 where it referenced that it had 
made updates to its contingency plans.
As Mr F didnt agree with this response.  He referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it. 
In August 2023, I issued a provisional decision. This is what I said:
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. 
It says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr F has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
As a starting point, Ive reviewed Zopas Investor Principles. These explain if Zopa wants to 
end the agreement it will give 30 days notice to lenders. There is also a section on 
contingency. This covers situation where the platform is no longer able to operate and gives 
the examples of changes in regulation or market conditions causing this. It goes on to say, in 
accordance with regularity obligations, it has put in place a wind-down plan and gives a link 
to the wind-down plan. There is a warning that outstanding loans may be sold to a third party 
for less than the amount had they been held until the end of the loan terms.
This all supports that it was possible for Zopa to close the platform in circumstances where it 
was no longer able to operate the platform in a sustainable and profitable manner. The 
Investor Principles gave Zopa broad discretion in terms of closing the platform.
But I do note the points Mr F has raised concerns about the contents of the Investor 
Principles changing in December 2020 (and also in July 2021). He has provided a copy of 
the previous version. This does contain different information to the latest version. The key 
part Mr F has identified is to Principle 14. This section was titled Back-Up Servicing but was 
changed to Contingency Planning. Zopa say in the updates section of the Principles On 18 
December 2020 We made changes to Principle 14 (and related Principles) to give more 
details about contingency planning.
Mr F argues that changes made to the Investor Principles in December 2020 and July 2021 
 effectively disadvantaged investors like himself by laying the groundwork for the process 
that followed in December 2021 when the platform closure was announced (which he thinks 
treats him unfairly).
I reviewed the changes Mr F has identified. In summary, before the December 2020 update 
this section said in the event of insolvency or if it is in the best interest of investors and 
borrowers Zopa may transfer its obligations to service the loans to a third party. It goes on to 
give details of an appointed back-up third party but says it can select a different back-up 
servicer and/or agree new terms with our back-up servicer without giving notice.
The December 2020 update to the Investor Principles removed this reference to transferring 
to a back-up servicer and introduced that Zopa put in place a wind-down plan to ensure an 
efficient and orderly wind-down with minimal impact to our customers. It links to the wind-up 
plan, but this doesnt form part of the Investor Principles, its a sperate section on Zopas 
website. There is a new part to the terms that say If we invoke our wind-down plan and 
reasonably determine that it would be in your best interests to sell your loans to a third party 
you acknowledge that we may sell your loans for less than you would have received had you 
held the loans until the end of the loan term.
Having looked at both sets of terms  although different  neither actually commits Zopa to a 
course of action. In both version it says what it may do. So, Im not persuaded by the 
argument that there were changes made that disadvantaged investors or were against their 
interests. I say this as Zopa hadnt actually committed to a definite position on what would 
happen if the platform closed. Mr F seems to have interpreted it that Zopa did guarantee 
something would happen but changed that. But my reading of the situation is that they gave 
a potential action they might take that was informative but not definitive. So, I havent found reasons to say that changes in the Investor Principles have led to Mr F suffering a detriment.  
Instead I have sought to make an overall finding on what actually happened to decide 
whether he has been treated unfairly. 
Mr F argues the email he received about the December 2020 updates was misleading. He 
says the changes were far more than mere details and clarifications and instead gave 
Zopa crucial powers and reduced investors rights. I dont agree this to be the case. For 
similar reasons explained above the changes did provide different information about what 
may happen if the platform was to close but I dont find it allowed Zopa to act against 
investors interests in the way Mr F implies. 
At the time of closure notice Zopas website gave details of its wind-down plan. Ive reviewed 
this information. It details what would happen if Zopa were to stop operating its P2P platform 
 and says we may carry out one of the following strategies. It then provides three options 
for actions it may take. The last scenario is of relevance here as this describes the sale of 
loans. It says Zopa may sell your loans for less than you would have received had you held 
the loans until the end of the loan term. But, if we decide to do this, we'll notify you of our 
decision 30 days in advance of the proposed sale and you'll be able to opt out of the sale 
and retain your loans.
I also note Mr F has identified changes Zopa made to its wind-up plan in 2020  which he 
makes similar claims about how the changes were detrimental to him. On face value I dont 
find it unreasonable for Zopa to make changes to its wind-up plans. Having a wind-up plan is 
a regulatory obligation. The section on Zopas website that gave this information doesnt 
form part of Mr Fs contract with Zopa. And as with above, while the information did involve 
changes to what investors were told, it still only provided potential action Zopa may take in 
the event of a wind-up, it didnt commit to a specific course of action. So while I acknowledge 
what he is saying, I dont think these arguments support that he has been treated unfairly. 
As mentioned previously, Im considering the overall fairness of the circumstances of how it 
implemented the closure of the platform. So, Ive considered the above alongside the 
circumstances of what actually happened with the sale of Mr Fs loans. Ive done this to in 
order to reach a decision on whether there have been failings that led to Mr F being treated 
unfairly  and if there has whether he has suffered a financial loss as a result. 
Mr F was given notice of Zopas intention to sell his loans in early December. He was told 
this would be completed by the 31 January 2022, but his loans started to be sold soon after 
the notice was given, and the full sale happened by mid-January. Mr F wasnt given an 
option to opt out of sale and retain his loans. So, on the one hand, the evidence doesnt 
support that Zopa followed its published wind-down plan. On the other hand, the published 
wind-down plan provides potential strategies that Zopa may follow as oppose to something it 
will categorically follow. 
I can understand why Mr F feels Zopa has acted unfairly by not providing him with the ability 
to opt out of loan sale and remain invested. But I dont think it is clear cut that there has been 
a failing here. And in any case even if I were to accept there was a failing, I dont think 
overall Mr F has been treated unfairly or suffered a loss. Ill explain why. 
Zopas approach to repaying loans involved Mr F receiving his capital back for loans and 
interest that had been acquired. The benefit of taking this course of action was it gave a 
quick guaranteed return of capital on loans  including those that had late payments. The 
risk of default on loans with payment problems is heightened, so the fact capital was 
returned on these loans was beneficial to lenders like Mr F. I appreciate Zopas approach did 
mean there was no option to continue earning interest on loans that hadnt reached maturity. But Im also conscious that future interest payments werent guaranteed either, and the risk 
of future default remained for all loans - even those with a good payment history. 
I acknowledge Mr F believes he should receive a return of his capital and all the interest due 
from the full loan terms  because this is what borrowers had agreed to do. And because he 
hasnt received this, he has lost out. But I dont think it is reasonable to ask Zopa to pay 
returns where there was no guarantee they would be achieved. So, I agree that Zopas 
approach of assessing the sale price at the time is a fair and reasonable way of deciding 
what should be returned to Mr F. While I understand why Mr F would have preferred to 
continue investing, I dont agree that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of the action 
Zopa took. 
Mr F has raised a point about a conflict of interest. His concerns centre around the sale of 
his loans to an affiliate company, and whether this has resulted in him not receiving a fair 
price for his loans. Firstly, I havent seen evidence to support that Zopa has made a financial 
gain at Mr Fs expense. Ive previously explained why I think the actions Zopa took hasnt 
treated him unfairly  particularly around paying face value for loans in arrears. While I 
acknowledge that the loans sale involved an affiliate of Zopa acquiring his loans, I dont think 
this in itself means Mr F has not received a fair value for his portfolio. 
Mr F responded and provided further submission for me to consider. In summary he said:
- He remains concerned about whether he has suffered a loss as a result of the wind-
up and maintains Zopa hasnt provided figures that would prove this either way. 
- In his view, whether he has suffered a loss or not depends on whether what Zopa 
paid for his loans is equal to or greater than what he would have received if he kept 
his loans to maturity. If it is less, he believes he has suffered a loss. To do this, he 
has requested a further breakdown of data to allow for a calculation to be completed.
Zopa didnt anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions Mr F ahs made, but they havent led me to reach a 
different conclusion to that I set out in my provisional decision. I will explain why. 
Mr F says his understanding of my findings is that he hasnt suffered a loss because being 
paid face value for his loans in arrears, compensated him for the future interest and bonuses 
(net of default) he wont receive as a result of the platform closure. From his comments it 
doesnt seem that Mr F has interpreted by findings as I intended. So, I will provide further 
clarity on why I dont believe he has suffered a loss. 
Mr F has presented an equation to establish whether he has suffered a loss. As part of this 
equation it includes the interest and bonuses he has forgone as a result of the platform 
closing and loans no longer associated with his accounts.  But I dont agree this is something 
that should be included in a loss assessment. I explained previously that I was satisfied that 
Zopa had the ability to end agreements. This in line with the Investor Principles which 
explain if Zopa wants to end the agreement it will give 30 days notice to lenders. Once an 
agreement has ended, lenders such as Mr F have no entitlement to future returns from the 
investment. 
Mr F has argued these future returns should be included in the assessment of loss when 
considering what he was paid out for his loans. But again, I dont find it reasonable to take this approach. Ive already explained why I dont agree that Mr F should receive all the 
interest due from the full loan terms. The assessment of value of Mr Fs investment is at the 
point the loans were sold. He received face value, so a full return of his capital for active 
loans and those in arrears. Mr Fs loans were acquired by a third party (notwithstanding his 
concerns about this), so there is an argument that its reasonable for the new owners to 
expect to receive the same level of interest on the portfolio that the current owners (i.e. the 
Zopa lending investors) were earning. Im also conscious that the risk the new owners are 
taking on in purchasing the loan portfolio hasnt changed and so it follows that the reward for 
doing so should remain the same as what investors were receiving. It wouldnt be equitable 
for Mr F to receive the future return without risk. All of this leads me to a conclusion that 
Zopa has acted reasonably by not including further payments for future interest and bonuses 
when deciding the value of Mr Fs loans.  
The point I made about being fairly compensated because he was paid face value for loans 
in arrears was linked to the fact he wasnt paid anything for his defaulted loans. So, the fact 
he had receive all of his capital back for loans that had run into payment problems, was a fair 
offer due to the heighten risk of default on those loans. And I viewed it reasonable to say this 
offset the fact his defaulted loans were acquire without payment despite the theoretical 
possibility of recovery action returning some funds from these loans. 
I acknowledge that Mr F would like further information to be gathered and a loss calculation 
based on the equation he set out. Zopa has provided information on what Mr F was paid for 
his loan portfolio. It has confirmed he received a total payment of £594,582, of which 
£53,612 related to loans that were in arrears. He would also like to understand the 
hypothetical returns he would have received had he kept his loans to maturity  and has 
suggested using advertised projections of returns and default rates to establish this. Ive 
explained above why I dont agree with the basis he set out for assessing loss.  For this 
reason, I dont think Zopa is required to provide the information Mr F requests in order for me 
to decide his complaint. 
In conclusion, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and those above, I think 
overall Zopa has treated Mr F fairly. The Investor Principles do explain the possibility of Zopa 
deciding to end the agreement and sell outstanding loans either to itself or a third party. On 
balance, Im satisfied the decision to repay Mr F the full capital on his loans (included those 
with late payment) was fair in the circumstances. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr F, but I havent found that Zopa need to pay him any further 
compensation from the loan sale. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman