DRN-2863504
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided him with a 
credit account which he believes was unaffordable for him at that time.  
What happened
In 2017, Mr G applied for a credit account with Barclays. His application was approved, and 
Mr G was issued a credit card with a credit limit of £7,100.
In 2020, Mr G raised a complaint with Barclays as he felt that his financial position at the 
time of the credit account application in 2017 was such that the credit account was 
unaffordable for him at that time and that Barclays shouldnt have approved his application. 
Mr G also felt that, had Barclays conducted reasonable and proportionate checks into his 
financial position when he made the credit application, the true nature of his financial 
position would have been apparent to them.
Barclays looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they felt that they had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Mr Gs financial position at the time of the credit account 
application and that there had been nothing resulting from these checks that gave them 
cause to suspect that the credit account would have been unaffordable for Mr G at that time. 
So, they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Their assessment of Mr Gs financial 
position at the time of the application differed from Barclays, and our investigator felt that it 
should have been apparent to Barclays at the time of the application that the credit account 
was unaffordable for Mr G at that time. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld, 
and that Barclays should reimburse all interest, fees, and charges incurred on the account 
and that Barclays should remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Mr Gs 
credit file.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendations put forward by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that the 
amount of credit being offered to that customer was affordable for that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here. They took details of Mr Gs income and expenditure to 
ensure that Mr G had sufficient disposable monthly income to be able to afford the potential 
monthly repayments on the credit account, and they reviewed Mr Gs credit file to gain a 
better understanding of Mr Gs wider financial position.
But its noticeable from the application assessment information that Barclays provided to this 
service that they assessed Mr G as having a monthly disposable income of only £165. This 
doesnt appear to be a reasonable amount of disposable monthly income to merit the 
provision of a credit account with a credit limit of £7,100, where the possibility exists that, 
had Mr G utilised the maximum amount of credit available to him, his disposable monthly 
income might not have been sufficient to cover the minimum monthly payments that would 
have become due.
Its also the case that Mr Gs credit file included information that would have been available 
to Barclays at the time of the application which I feel should have given Barclays cause to 
consider that Mr G might be in financial difficulty at the time of the credit application and that 
the credit amount being offered to Mr G might not be affordable for him.
These include that Mr G had a high level of exiting borrowing in relation to his annual income 
and that Mr G had applied for two other credit accounts with different providers in the recent 
past and had utilised a large portion of the credit that was available to him on those new 
accounts.
And, while it was the case that Mr G hadnt missed any repayments on his existing credit 
accounts at the time of the application, it seems clear that Mr Gs relatively small level of 
disposable income, combined with his increasing amounts of borrowing, was indicative of a 
financial position that was in danger of spiralling out of control, such that it was reasonable to 
conclude that the credit account that Mr G was applying for in this instance might not have 
been affordable for him. 
Barclays have stated to this service that, having reviewed Mr Gs current account statements 
for the months leading up to the credit account application, they believe that Mr Gs monthly 
disposable income was greater that the £165 that they originally assessed, and that the 
credit account was affordable for him on that basis. Barclays have also referenced the fact 
that Mr G had a sum of approximately £6,500 available to him in an ISA account, which Mr G 
could have used to clear any outstanding balance on the credit account that he might have 
struggled to repay.
However, having reviewed Mr Gs current account statements myself, Im not convinced by 
Barclays position here, and it seems to me that the information available on the current 
account statements suggests that Mr Gs amount of monthly disposable income was close to 
the amount originally assessed by Barclays. Furthermore, while Mr G did have the ISA 
balance available to him at the time of the application, there was no guarantee, given the 
amount of previously existing borrowing that Mr G had at that time, that this balance would 
have been available to be used to toward clearing any amount outstanding on the new credit 
that Barclays were considering providing.
All of which means that Im not convinced that Barclays conducted an accurate assessment 
of Mr Gs financial position at the time of the credit account application here, and I feel that if 
they had, that they should have reconsidered their decision to provide a credit account to Mr 
G with a credit limit of £7,100, and may have reconsidered their decision to provide a credit 
account to Mr G at all. And I say this because it seems apparent, from the information 
available to me, that Mr G had a relatively small amount of disposable monthly income and 
had existing levels of borrowing that were already potentially unaffordable for him at that 
time, such that any additional borrowing would, in all probability, have served to exacerbate 
his already difficult financial position.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Barclays were wanting here, but it follows from this that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour and instructing Barclays to take 
appropriate corrective action as described below. I hope that Barclays can understand, given 
everything that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse all interest, fees, and charges incurred on the account since 
inception back to Mr Gs credit account.
If these reimbursements result in a credit amount in Mr Gs favour, Barclays must reimburse 
this amount to Mr G along with 8% interest calculated from the date that the account would 
first have gone into credit.
Barclays must also remove all adverse information relating to this account from Mr Gs credit 
file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman