DRN-2127457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim for 
malicious damage under their landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C say they heard from their tenants that they were moving out of the property let 
to them. When Mrs C visited the property, she found extensive damage. 
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to AXA through their broker for malicious damage. AXA declined 
the claim because they hadnt complied with a condition in the policy requiring them to carry 
out a credit check on the tenants and they couldnt show theyd obtained proof of identity. 
Mr and Mrs C said they werent aware a credit check was a requirement of the policy. They 
said this was never pointed out to them. Mrs C said she had obtained proof of the tenants 
identity but couldnt find evidence of this for AXA. 
They brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She didnt think 
breach of the conditions was material to the loss.
As AXA didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said they werent aware of the condition in the policy document to carry out a 
credit check on the tenants and it wasnt brought to their attention at the point of sale. Its the 
responsibility of the business that sold Mr and Mrs C the policy to highlight any significant or 
unusual clauses. AXA wasnt involved in the sale of the policy, so my decision focuses on its 
decision, as the insurer, to decline the claim. If Mr and Mrs C are dissatisfied with the 
information or advice that was given to them during the sale of the policy, its open to them to 
complain to the seller in the first instance, if they havent already done so.
It was a condition of Mr and Mrs Cs malicious damage cover that they should:
obtain satisfactory credit references from a licensed Credit Referencing Agency prior to 
granting the tenancy.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs C didnt have satisfactory (or indeed any) credit references 
for the tenants. Technically this means that AXA could use this breach to decline the claim 
for malicious damage. But this service doesnt consider it is fair or reasonable to decline a 
claim in this way where the cause of the claim has no relation to the condition breached and 
where the policyholder isnt considered to be a sophisticated buyer of commercial insurance. 
In these circumstances we say that an insurer needs to show that the breach is relevant to 
the claim and that the breach has prejudiced its position. 
A credit reference is designed to measure the likelihood of the tenant paying the rent on time 
based on their credit history. It doesnt measure whether or not they are likely to cause 
malicious damage to a property based on what a previous landlord has said about them. 
That sort of information might be revealed by a more comprehensive tenant reference rather 
than just looking at their credit history.
From the information provided its clear that the rent was paid up to date. Theres no 
indication that the malicious damage was linked to any financial difficulties the tenants might 
have had. So Mr and Mrs Cs breach of the policy condition didnt have any relation to the 
malicious damage and I dont think it has prejudiced AXAs position. 
It was also a condition of the policy that Mr and Mrs C obtain proof of the tenants identity. 
Since theres no suggestion that the tenants werent who they said they were, even if there 
were a breach of this condition, again I dont think its relevant to the malicious damage or 
has prejudiced AXAs position.
Mr and Mrs C have owned the insured premises for a number of years and let them out for 
business purposes. But as it seems they only have two properties which they let out, it isnt a 
significant business. I dont consider them to be sophisticated property landlords or 
experienced buyers of insurance. For these reasons I think that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
should be upheld. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman