DRN-2322377
Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy when they took out a loan in 2000. The loan which was 
taken out in a meeting, included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover 
for Mr T only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Mr and Mrs T initially said they were not aware of the PPI being in place until an enquiry was 
raised about it. However, I note more recently they have said that they were simply asked to 
sign the box marked yes without any explanation. They added they were given a booklet, 
but werent given the chance to read it before agreeing to the PPI. And theyve said it wasnt  
clear whether they needed to take out PPI as they were told they may need it if Mr T was 
made redundant or became seriously ill.   
In order to apply PPI to Mr and Mrs Ts loan, Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T 
that the policy was optional and it had to gain their consent. It has sent us copies of the 
documentation Mr and Mrs T completed at the time they took out the loan and the PPI was 
sold to them. This included the personal loan application form and the personal loan 
agreement. 
I have looked at the personal loan application form Mr and Mrs T completed at the time of 
sale in 2000. It outlines under the heading of Protecting your payments that Mr T, as the 
first named applicant of the loan (and only person PPI was available to), was required to sign 
in one of two boxes confirming whether he wanted to take PPI or not. Mr T signed in the 
YES, I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered... box. I can also see     
Mr and Mrs T signed the application form agreeing to its contents, along with the personal 
loan agreement which showed that PPI was included in the loan Mr and Mrs T were taking 
out.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T did consent to PPI being taken 
out. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs T werent given 
a choice about the PPI. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T agreed to take 
out the PPI knowing they had a choice. 
Mr and Mrs T cant remember if they were advised to take the PPI. Halifax on the other 
hand, says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. This means Halifax had to 
check the policy was policy was right for Mr T and based on what I have seen of Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for him. Mr T who was sole person insured, 
was eligible for cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the things 
the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr T says he would have been entitled to between six and twelve months pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. He has also told us he didnt have any savings or 
other means he could have used to cover their loan repayments if he ever fell on hard times. 
Having thought about what Mr and Mrs T have told us about Mr Ts sick pay. I dont think this 
means Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to them. I say this because, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr T would have received from his employer and 
also would have paid a benefit if he became unemployed. So, I think the PPI would have 
been useful to Mr and Mrs T if Mr T ever became too unwell to work or lost his job. It also 
looks like it was affordable. It follows that I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the 
PPI to them.  
The cost of the policy was shown in the personal loan agreement  including the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. Although the monthly 
cost wasnt shown, I still think Mr and Mrs T would have understood how much the PPI 
would cost if they kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim 
they could have got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. Mr and Mrs T would have got 
back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if they cancelled the policy early. I dont know 
if Halifax thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation 
clearly to Mr and Mrs T. But I havent seen anything to suggest they thought they would 
repay the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for them  or that 
better information about this would have stopped them buying it.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to them. So I dont think better information would have 
stopped them buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ts comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman