The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) following 
the blocking of his account.
What happened
Mr M's partner passed away and RBS placed a block on his account. He says that meant 
direct debit and cheque payments could not be made and that his business and home were 
placed in jeopardy. Mr M also complains about how RBS then dealt with him following this 
and that it didn't make promised calls and was unable to explain what was going on. He says 
RBS offered him £600 compensation but he would like £4,200 for his loss of earnings for the 
15 days he was unable to use his account.
RBS accepts it didn't deal appropriately with Mr M and that it incorrectly placed a block on 
his account. It's apologised for what took place and has paid £600 compensation and paid 
£300 for any charges that may have been incurred as a result of its mistake. RBS says it will 
not pay for loss of earnings and says the block was applied on 27 September 2019 and 
removed on 4 October 2019.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted he had not been treated 
appropriately by RBS and that it had made a mistake applying the block. The investigator 
thought the total compensation fair and reasonable and that it wasn't our role to punish a 
business. The investigator didn't think it appropriate that RBS pay for any loss of earnings as 
Mr M was still able to run his business.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says he has no faith that RBS would have learned 
anything as a result of what took place or that future problems for others could be avoided. 
He says no reference has been made to a further £40 of charges he paid as a result of what 
took place and says he had to wait for a new account card which delayed his account use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that RBS has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation and has fairly 
apologised for its mistakes.
There is no dispute here that RBS made a number of mistake. There is no need for me to 
repeat them as they are well known to the parties. But I accept those mistakes took place at 
what must have been an extremely difficult period for Mr M. I also accept that, at that difficult 
time, Mr M would have spent a significant amount of time trying to find out what was going 
DRN-1699952on. And that he didn't receive appropriate service from RBS after the initial mistake.
I accept Mr M was caused distress and inconvenience and that he was concerned about 
payments not being made. But I'm satisfied RBS has fairly apologised for its mistakes and 
has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation of £600. I think that 
award reflects the level of RBS's mistakes and takes into account that Mr M didn't suffer a 
financial loss as a result of what took place. I say that as I can also see that RBS has paid 
£300 for any  charges caused by its mistakes, and that the only cost Mr M has told us about 
is the £40 charges that he paid for cheques not cashed.
I don't think it fair or reasonable to order RBS to pay for any loss of earnings as I don't think 
its actions meant Mr M couldn't work or that his business couldn't function. I have not seen 
any evidence that RBS's actions resulted in a loss of earnings in any event.
I appreciate that Mr M has lost confidence in RBS, and I understand why he has reached 
that conclusion. I also appreciate his concern for other customers. But we are not the 
regulator of banks and building societies, and so it's not our role to punish a business or tell 
it how it operates to improve its customer care.
Overall I accept RBS made a number of mistakes, and I have no doubt that at the time of the 
mistakes Mr M was unable to find out what was going on and why. I accept Mr M will have 
unanswered questions about how and why these mistakes took place. But I'm satisfied 
RBS has done what I would have expected to put matters right, and for those reasons I can't 
fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation and I don't require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman