DRN-4008053
The complaint
Ms S complained that her claim for repairing the damage after a water leak was declined 
under her home insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas).
What happened
Ms S noticed staining in her hallway above her front door  a plumber stopped the leak 
which was coming from a toilet in the first floor of the property. Then Ms S made a claim to 
Ageas to repair the damage caused by the leak.
There were some administration issues which meant there was a delay of nearly two months 
before Ageas appointed surveyor was able to visit the property to assess the damage and 
validate the claim. Ageas paid Ms S £50 for the distress and inconvenience the delay 
caused.
The surveyor stated in his report the whole area is heavily stained as a result of a leak from 
the toilet in the bathroom above for a very long time. The damage has not been mitigated at 
all. The claim has therefore been declined in this instance as the damage has been 
occurring for a very long period and no mitigation has taken place.
Ms S challenged the formal decision by Ageas, as she said the evidence presented by 
Ageas was from an older leak that she hadnt repaired. However, she said there was new / 
different damage from this recent leak. The surveyor was asked to provide a response to Ms 
S challenge. The surveyor maintained his view that the damage evidenced had happened 
gradually over a long period of time, so wasnt covered by the policy. Ms S wants her claim 
for the recent leak settled.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded to think the damage 
was because of one incident which happened several years ago, which is essentially why 
the claim was declined under the wording damage by any gradual cause. She thinks its 
evident there has been two separate incidents, and not one as the surveyor concluded and 
stood by. So, she didnt think the claim had been declined fairly. Ageas disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 23 January 2023. I said:
When Ms S escalated her complaint to our service she indicated that the delay to the 
surveyor assessment had been resolved. Ageas awarded £50 compensation for this. 
Therefore, I havent considered this point any further.
I have checked the policy. I can see on page 24 it shows what isnt included under claims for 
water leakage. The policy states damage by any gradual cause isnt covered by the policy. 
Therefore, if Ageas has proven the damage was caused over a long period of time, then Im 
likely to say its been fair in declining the claim.
Ageas appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor highlighted that damage 
had been caused over a long period of time. Ms S has been open in saying she had a 
previous issue, which had caused extensive staining downstairs when the bath overflowed. 
She said she hadnt yet repaired this damage. Therefore, some of the damage evident would 
be from this earlier incident.
However, Ms S has been clear that she was only claiming for damage caused by the new 
leak and pointed specifically to staining shed noticed above her front door. She said she told 
the surveyor about the separate incidents. When the claim was initially declined the surveyor 
was asked to review the claim again and he re-confirmed that he thought all the damage that 
was evident had been caused gradually.
Ms S said as soon as she noticed the leak, she had an emergency plumber turn up the very 
next day to stop it. Therefore, I wouldnt expect a leak that has been repaired so soon after 
the issue was identified to have caused significant damage or staining. I appreciate the 
surveyor didnt review the damage until two months after the incident. However, as the leak 
had been stopped it shouldnt have got any worse.
Ageas explained their stance, it said: 
we do not disagree that this is the result of two separate incidents and we are not saying 
this has been one continuous leak for several years, however there has been a failure to 
mitigate the loss by [Ms S]. She was aware of the damage to her hallway and did not seek to 
get this repaired, therefore, the ceiling was already susceptible to damage and would fail 
easier. Had the insured had her ceiling repaired following the incident previously she would 
have been able to notice the new leak and this would not have been able to continue slowly 
leaking causing greater damage. 
It is evident from the photos of the damage that there have been many leaks. You can see 
multiple rings of damage which is evident of a water leakage which has been able to dry in 
between incidents. Also, the wall can be seen to have delaminated and split into layers 
which would suggest that after each leak a further layer of the wall has separated rather than 
a singular leak resulting in one layer of damage.
We are ultimately unable to confirm an insured event and would be unable to verify our limit 
of liability for repairs as the damage is clearly the result of more than one event.
The photographs provided by the surveyor show all the damage in the hallway. The surveyor 
has suggested there were probably several leaks. Ageas statement explains this in more 
detail. Ms S has said there was at least two leaks. Ive seen several pictures of the hallway, 
and I dont think its possible to determine exactly what damage has been caused by what 
leaks. The photographs suggest the leaks have caused gradual damage and havent been 
mitigated. I think the room is in a poor condition and if it was to be improved the whole room 
would require attention.
I must consider that the purpose of the policy is to indemnify Ms S from the damage caused. 
That means put her back in the position she was in before the leak. However, I think its 
clear from the surveyors report and the supporting photographs that the condition of the 
hallway was generally poor. I think its likely it has been for some time. I think it would be 
unfair to ask Ageas to repair this damage, as I dont think the new damage has been clearly 
identified. There is also evidence the visible damage has occurred gradually. Therefore, I 
dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decisionAgeas didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Ms S said I understand the difficulty in assessing the times involved in the formation of the 
stains, or how long it might have taken before the water came through. I was unable to give 
an exact answer here although the reasons for the escape of water seemed clear enough, 
and the stains formed more quickly than was suggested by the assessor. Be that as it may, I 
accept the uncertainty in producing a clear-cut picture of events. Thank you for your even-
handed and patient overview.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman