DRN-2290012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Ageas Insurance Limited treated them unfairly by increasing the 
premium on their motor insurance policy after theyd taken it out.
Any reference to Ageas also includes their agents.  
What happened
In early June 2019 Mr and Mrs B applied for a car insurance policy online using a 
comparison website. They completed the application form and based on their answers were 
offered cover with Ageas for a yearly premium of around £198 - which they accepted.
However, when Ageas were completing their checks using the insurance claims and 
underwriting exchange database (CUE) they saw that Mr B had previously been involved in 
an incident in March 2019 which Mr and Mrs B hadnt declared. 
So, around a week later Ageas wrote to Mr and Mrs B to say that theyd answered the 
question about previous incidents in the last five years incorrectly. And they considered this 
to be misrepresented claims history - which entitled Ageas to charge more for the policy. 
Ageas explained they were still prepared to offer Mr and Mrs B insurance cover, but their 
premium would increase by around £113 for the year.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was fair. They said that theyd completed the online application 
accurately and disclosed the incident in March 2019. Mr and Mrs B said they felt the 
premium increase was unreasonable as they could have paid less than this if theyd stayed 
with their original insurer. Ageas agreed to waive the £39 administration fee as a gesture of 
goodwill, but they said Mr and Mrs B would still need to pay an increase in their premium of 
around £74. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and made a complaint. 
Ageas upheld the complaint in part. They said that theyd checked the application 
information Mr and Mrs B had submitted and there was no record theyd disclosed the 
incident. They also said that the premium would always have been for the higher amount if 
Mr and Mrs B had disclosed the incident. However, they said there had been other options 
available to Mr and Mrs B than just paying the premium increase i.e. cancelling the policy or 
receiving a lower pay out in the event of a claim which they hadnt been offered. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree as they felt they shouldnt be liable for any increase and asked 
this service to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said that shed seen the 
information that Mr and Mrs B had provided on their application form and based on this she 
was satisfied that they hadnt declared the incident to Ageas. She explained that any 
premium that Ageas offered them was based on the risk they felt theyd be insuring from the 
information Mr and Mrs B had provided. She said that she was satisfied that if Ageas had 
known about the incident in March 2019, they would have always charged Mr and Mrs B the 
higher premium.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into their complaint. So, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mr and Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they told them that theyd not been involved in any claims in the last five years.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs B said they disclosed the incident when applying for the policy 
and that this shouldve already been included within the premium they were offered initially. 
However, Ive looked at the questions Mr and Mrs B were asked on the comparison website 
and Ive seen that for both the policy holder and any named drivers to be included on the 
policy, there was a question which asked have you had Any motor accidents or claims in 
the last 5 years?.  
There was also the option to get help to answer this question if needed which added a 
further description about what it meant by this question - including that it was whether or not 
you were at fault or actually made a claim. So, based on what Ive seen, I think the question 
asked about accidents and claims was clear. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B said they 
disclosed Mr Bs accident in March 2019 on the application form, but I havent seen any 
evidence of this and what I have seen shows that Mr and Mrs B answered this question as 
No. 
Ive also looked at the proposal form that Mr and Mrs B received after completing the online 
application. I can see that under section 6 Insurance History it say under Accidents and 
Losses Please show any accidents, thefts or losses (irrespective of blame and whether a 
claim resulted) which you or any other person who will drive have been involved in within the 
past 5 years  and the response here says None. So, I think it would have been clear to Mr 
and Mrs B when they received this that the accident information Ageas had on file for them 
was incorrect.
Looking at the policy document that Mr and Mrs B received at the same time, I can see it 
says in the Important Notice section that the questions asked online are to give the broker 
and insurer a full picture of the risk theyd be insuring. It also explained that was extremely 
important to answer any questions asked correctly because if they were answered 
carelessly, recklessly or deliberately misrepresented any insurance policy could be cancelled, or the insurer may choose not to pay part or all of the claim. So, I think Ageas 
made it clear what could happen if they became aware of any incorrect information.
The document also said that the proposal form was a record of the answers that Mr and 
Mrs B had given on the comparison site and when speaking to them, and it formed part of 
the motor insurance contract. It asked that Mr and Mrs B check the information was accurate 
and completed to the best of their knowledge - and if there were any changes that needed to 
be made, they should contact Ageas immediately. 
So, I think its reasonable to believe that even if Mr and Mrs B had completed the application 
form incorrectly on the comparison site, because they felt it was unclear or indeed, they 
thought theyd given the correct information, that they wouldve contacted Ageas to update 
them when they received the policy documents. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs B attempted to contact Ageas to correct the 
claims information before Ageas identified the error and wrote to them to query this. So, 
based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs B didnt take reasonable care when 
completing the online application - or when checking their policy documents. 
Ageas has provided screen shots of Mr and Mrs Bs quotations before and after the incident 
was added to their underwriting system and it shows the increase in the policy loading due to 
a higher risk and the corresponding increase in premium. This information also matches the 
date Mr and Mrs applied for the policy and the date the information about the incident was 
received from the CUE. This shows that if Mr and Mrs B hadnt made the misrepresentation, 
Ageas would have charged them a higher premium.
This means Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Ageas has 
treated Mr and Mrs Bs misrepresentation as careless and based on the screen shots from 
Mr and Mrs B and the evidence Ive seen from both parties, I think this is fair.
Therefore, as Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Bs misrepresentation was careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Ageas can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this type of case, Ageas had several 
options it couldve offered Mr and Mrs B which included; paying the higher premium, 
cancelling the policy and seeking insurance elsewhere - and only paying for the time on risk 
with Ageas, or not paying the additional premium but in the event of the claim only receiving 
72.8% of the cost. Had none of these options been suitable for Mr and Mrs B, Ageas could 
also have cancelled the policy and Mr and Mrs B would then need to inform future insurers 
of this.  
I acknowledge that Ageas didnt initially offer all these options to Mr and Mrs B, and only 
sent a letter saying the cost of the yearly premium was increasing and asking Mr and Mrs B 
to pay it. However, Im not persuaded based on the information that Mr and Mrs B provided 
that they would have taken the other options. I say this because Mr and Mrs B said they 
chose to go with Ageas as it was the cheapest on the comparison website based on the 
information theyd provided. This meant that there was a good chance the other insurers 
would have also been more expensive. 
They also mentioned that their existing insurer had offered cover which was slightly cheaper 
than the premium theyd eventually paid. So, if theyd cancelled the policy and paid for the 
time on cover, there wouldnt have been any financial benefit to them. 
Therefore, given all the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs B had declared 
the incident in March 2019 when completing the online application that Ageas would still 
have agreed to provide insurance cover - but at the higher annual premium they offered 
once theyd been made aware. And as Ageas have already refunded the £39 administration fee to Mr and Mrs B as a gesture of goodwill, I dont think Ageas have treated them unfairly 
and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman