Page 1 of 5Complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2006. 
Mrs C says Black Horse Limited mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Black Horses offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mrs C paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
DRN-2705600Page 2 of 5I think Black Horse made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because this was a sale by phone where, absent a call 
recording, Black Horse has provided us with a call script, which it says represents what 
was discussed with Mrs C at the time. Looking at this I can see it would have been clear 
to a consumer that they had a choice about PPI and they had to give their explicit 
consent to take it out.
Black Horse has also provided a demands and needs document setting out the reasons 
why it recommended PPI to Mrs C. And here I can see there is a tick in the box to 
indicate that Mrs C accepted the recommendation made. If Mrs C didnt want PPI there 
was a box that Mrs C couldve ticked (or asked the adviser to tick) instead.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive that something very 
different happened in Mrs Cs case, I think she chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mrs C - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her. And the evidence about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs C was eligible for the 
cover and she didnt have any means to fall back on to make the repayments on her loan 
if she wasnt working. So I think she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Cs employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs C told us she had two jobs at the time of the sale, 
because her policy didnt cover her for unemployment this didnt affect the suitability of 
the cover  for example if Mrs C was unable to work one of her jobs because of accident 
or sickness its unlikely shed have been able to work the other one. Mrs C appears to 
have been in good health at the time - she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. So overall I dont think it was wrong for 
Black Horse to have recommended the policy. 
Absent a call recording, I accept its possible the information Black Horse gave Mrs C 
about the PPI overall wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose 
to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs C as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like 
it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs C would have declined the cover had Black 
Horse done anything more.
While the policy contained a limitation on claims relating to back problems and an 
exclusion for mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of 
sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. Page 3 of 5These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Black Horse 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Black Horse didnt tell Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Black Horse and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Black Horse didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs C because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipPage 4 of 5Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs C should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Black Horse failed to tell Mrs C about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs C wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
C in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Black Horse not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Cs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Black Horses failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Black Horse to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs C paid for her PPI policy. Page 5 of 5I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs C 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Black Horse had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Black Horses payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Black Horse has already paid Mrs C compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Black 
Horse Limited should pay Mrs C an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable.) As 
Black Horse Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman