DRN-2574808
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about a branded bicycle insurance policy sold to her by BIKMO Limited. 
She believes the policy was mis-sold because her claim for her stolen bike was declined by 
the underwriter, despite her believing BIKMO knew how the bike would be stored. In 
addition, shes unhappy that her policy was cancelled without her involvement.
What happened
In the autumn of 2019 Ms F bought a bike. She took out her policy through BIKMOs website 
to protect that bikes and accessories, owned by her and her partner, at home and away from 
home, up to £1,100. There were two bikes in the household.
The key features document for the policy, which Ms F was given when she bought the 
policy, detailed that the policy provided cover for theft. However, for a claim to be paid when 
a bike was stolen there were security requirements that had to be met. In order for a claim 
for theft from the home to be valid the requirements were detailed as:
the items are under your personal supervision;
the normal security protections in your home, hall of residence, lockable outbuildings, 
shed or carpark, holiday home, hotel or guest house, are in operation and the theft arises 
from forcible and violent entry; or the cycle is locked through the frame with an approved 
lock and secured in a cycle hanger or to an immoveable object.
The insurance policy defined home as the location where the bike was usually kept, 
meaning:
a. your private dwelling built of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates or tiles; or
b. a lockable outbuilding or garage built of brick, stone or concrete and roofed  which is 
within the boundaries of your private dwelling; or
c. a secured gated car park within the boundaries of your private swelling which is privately 
accessed by residents and their guests only; or
d. a lockable wooden or metal shed within the boundaries of your private dwelling which is 
privately accessed by residents and their guests only; or

i.    any other specific location which has been referred to and agreed by us in writing.
When a customer of BIKMO logs into their account they have available to them a kit list, 
where they can record information outside of the policy application process. To describe 
what it is to be used for it says:
Just like your show box at home, you can store all your receipts, warranties and pictures of 
your prized possessions in this list. By uploading these details youll have all the information 
at your fingertips if you ever need to make a claim. 
Ms F had uploaded details of two bike purchases. The first detailing a bike purchased in 
2018 through a cycle to work scheme. It said the bike was kept on the balcony of the flat and 
detailed the locks used when on the road. Attached to that post was a photograph of part of 
a bike frame and a D-lock. The second post detailed the bike that was stolen and again said 
it was kept on the balcony at Ms Fs flat and detailed the lock used when on the road. The 
accompanying photo was of an invoice. 
Ms F has confirmed the two bikes were stored overnight on a first-floor private balcony 
(which Ms F has said is between four and five metres high) at her home. The bikes werent 
locked to an immoveable object. In late 2019 someone used items from outside the property 
to gain access to the balcony in the early morning.  One of the bikes was stolen.
A claim was made for the stolen bike, but the underwriter declined the claim. It said she 
hadnt complied with the policy terms for the bikes storage. 
Ms F wasnt happy with the insurers decision and complained to both it and BIKMO. She 
said she had provided BIKMO with detail of where the bike would be stored overnight. 
During the exchange of emails between Ms F and BIKMO, she said Following the 
disappointment of having an insurance that wont protect a bike from being stolen from a 
burglar coming up to my property 5 metres above ground, and doubting this insurance will 
not always find a resin (sic) not to cover me, I would like to process a cancellation please, so 
I can move to another company. How do I go about doing this please?  BIKMO immediately 
processed a cancellation and emailed Ms F to confirm that is what it had done. 
Ms F raised concerns about the cancellation of her policy. She said she didnt know what to 
make of BIKMO cancelling her policy without telling her about the steps, requirements, 
implications. She asked if BIKMO could take a step back and inform her what was best for 
her as a client.
BIKMO offered an apology, in the event that Ms F hadnt genuinely wanted to cancel her 
policy immediately. It said the cancellation had no requirements or implications and it was 
confirmed that shed receive a refund of the unused premium. It also confirmed that it was 
possible for the policy to be reinstated, if that is what she wanted. It offered to provide advice 
about locking devices and asked Ms F to confirm how she would like to proceed. 
Ms F remained unhappy about what had happened with her policy  both the claim being 
declined and the cancellation and raised those concerns as a complaint.
BIKMO responded to Ms Fs concerns. It highlighted that Ms F had included the information 
about the storage arrangements in the kit list she created against her account with it. It 
explained that there was no requirement to record anything in that box, and it was there 
solely to assist accountholders to store information that might be needed later for a claim. 
Indeed, its welcome email to Ms F had sad Add bike info & photos to your Kit List, its easier 
than finding receipts. It said there was nothing in its communications that suggested the kit 
list was to be used for the purpose of providing additional information for underwriting of the 
policy, that BIKMO monitored the content of the list, or that it accepted the policy application 
based on the bike being stored unlocked on her balcony.  In relation to Ms Fs concerns 
about BIKMO cancelling her policy, it said it did so in response to her email telling it that she 
wanted to cancel her policy and move to another insurer. 
Ms F remained unhappy and so BIKMO issued a final response letter, confirming its position 
on her complaint and telling her she could refer her complaint to this service if she wished to 
do so.  BIKMO said that it was correct to cancel the policy as Ms F had sent it an email 
saying I would like to process a cancellation please, so I can move to another company. It 
said that where there is no longer a bike to be insured, it can cancel policies with immediate 
effect. It accepted the immediate cancellation may have been a shock to Ms F, especially if she hadnt been expecting it to happen, and it apologised if that was the case, but it 
considered it had done the right thing. This was especially so when she would have 
continued to pay premiums until cancellation. In relation to the policy having been accepted 
on the basis of the information Ms F supplied about storage arrangements which shed 
added to the kit list on the application form, it didnt agree and referred back to its previous 
explanation on that point. 
Ms F remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. She highlighted that 
shed made BIKMO aware of how she stored the bike, including photographs, and that it 
wasnt locked when it was on the balcony. As this was the case, she considers that storage 
arrangement was deemed acceptable and cover provided for that arrangement.  She also 
provided confirmation that she had enquired with her landlord about installing a hook on the 
balcony to lock bikes to, but had been told she couldnt do so and it pointed out it provided a 
lockable bike room for storage.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Ms F didnt accept the investigators conclusions as she didnt think they were fair. She 
asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
This complaint is about the issues Ms F has raised in relation to her belief the policy she 
bought wasnt suitable for her circumstances and how the policy was cancelled. The claim 
decision is the responsibility of the underwriter and so I will not comment on that issue in this 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F told BIKMO that she wanted to cancel the policy and effectively asked how she went 
about doing so. I can understand that she may not have anticipated that her simple request 
would be enough, rather than there being a formal process to go through, but that was all 
that was needed. I dont think BIKMO acted inappropriately when it cancelled the policy 
based on Ms Fs statement. It informed her immediately of its actions and when Ms F 
queried the cancellation, it explained its position and gave her the option to reinstate the 
policy. I dont consider BIKMO made an error when dealing with this issue. 
I note that Ms F believes her having recorded in the kit list that the bikes would be stored on 
the balcony means that BIKMO would have known they wouldnt be locked and that it 
accepted this risk; so effectively her bike should have been covered when it was stolen. 
I have looked at all the information about the place on the website Ms F recorded this 
information. It is quite clear that the purpose of the kit list is to record information about the 
bikes and accessories insured, in the event of a claim. There is no indication the information 
included in the kit list would be used when BIKMO or the underwriter decided whether to 
grant the policy or not. Indeed, its very name would indicate it is just a place for listing the 
items potentially covered by the policy. 
I am satisfied that the policy sets out the requirements for storage of the bikes when at 
home. Whilst it doesnt list balconies specifically, it does detail other storage facilities outside 
of the main building and also communal facilities for those living in flats. The policy, as such, 
doesnt appear to be generically unsuitable because of the type of property Ms F lives in. In 
addition, I dont consider Ms F recording in the kit list that she would be storing the bikes on 
her balcony means that BIKMO agreed to insure them in the situation where she didnt 
comply with the security requirements for the policy. Overall, I am not persuaded the policy in question was mis-sold to Ms F or that BIKMO made 
a mistake when it cancelled her policy as it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 
24 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman