DRN-2689768
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he took on hire purchase from RCI Financial Services Limited was 
not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr H took a new car from RCI under a 37-month hire purchase 
agreement. The cash price of the car was a little over £31,000.
Within a few months, Mr H said he was experiencing problems with the cars battery. It was 
losing charge very quickly. The battery was replaced, but that did not resolve the issue. The 
dealership explained that the battery was the correct one for the car and that it was 
functioning as intended. 
However, the dealership explained too that the battery fitted was a high-performance one, 
which required the car to be used in a certain way. The car needed to be used sufficiently 
often and for sufficient distances that the battery would charge while in use, or it needed to 
be placed on a trickle charge. If it was not, it would drain quickly, in part it seems because it 
would be used to support the electronic systems and accessories typical of a modern road 
car.
In the event, it was not possible to resolve the issue so the car was operating to Mr Hs 
satisfaction. He therefore agreed with the manufacturer that he would return the car to the 
dealership and take out a finance deal for a different car. The manufacturer agreed to make 
a contribution towards the new car. Mr H says that the terms of that deal (and the 
contribution made by the manufacturer) were the subject of a confidentiality agreement 
amongst him, the dealership and the manufacturer. I am however aware of the contribution 
made.
Mr H referred the matter to this service. He said he was seeking a contribution of £3,000 
from RCI, which had not been a party to the settlement agreement involving the 
manufacturer and the dealership. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was not minded to uphold it. Mr 
H did not accept her view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs contract for the supply of the car was with RCI. He also had the benefit of a 
manufacturers warranty, and the car was actually supplied by the dealership, which acted 
as credit intermediary. Mr Hs complaint is about the car  not, for example, about the 
dealerships actions in arranging the credit. I can therefore only consider his complaint about 
RCI, not any similar complaint he might have about the manufacturer or the dealership. I am 
however required by law to determine Mr Hs complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Since Mr H has reached an 
agreement with the dealership and the manufacturer to resolve what is, to all intents and 
purposes, the same dispute as his complaint about RCI, that is a relevant circumstance for 
me to consider.
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including terms that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances, including being fit for the purpose for which it is 
commonly supplied. 
I can see why Mr H might argue that the car was not of satisfactory quality and/or not fit for 
purpose. The battery failed on several occasions, in part because normal domestic use 
meant that it needed charging more frequently than other types of battery. It doesnt appear 
that this was a characteristic that was brought to his attention before he took the car. 
I dont believe that I need to make a finding on either of these points, however. As Ive 
indicated, my overriding obligation in determining Mr Hs complaint is to do so by reference 
to what I consider to be fair and reasonable. If I were to conclude that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality, its unlikely that I would award any more than Mr H has already received 
from the manufacturer and dealership by way of contribution to a different car. When he was 
without his car, he was supplied with a courtesy car for all but a few days. 
Further, Mr H has reached an agreement about how his complaint about the car should be 
resolved. I accept of course that RCI was not party to that agreement and is not bound by it. 
Nevertheless, in my view it would not be fair for Mr H to receive compensation from RCI for 
what is basically the same complaint that he has settled with the other parties involved. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require RCI Financial Services Limited to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman