DRN-3129997
The complaint
Miss E representing Mr E complains that Nottingham Building Society (NBS) treated him 
unfairly when they refused his daughter access to his account
What happened
Both parties to this complaint are well acquainted with the facts so I dont propose to go 
through them in detail. However, a brief summary of the situation is as follows:
Mr E had an account with NBS.
Following the death of Mr Es wife, Mr E hadnt left the house, so his daughter Miss E 
used to go to the branch to withdraw the money. This went on for around 18 months. 
Following a visit to a different branch NBS started questioning why Miss E was 
withdrawing money for Mr E. Miss E said that staff at NBS questioned her motives 
and she felt very uncomfortable.
Following a change to a new branch, NBS asked for Mr Es consent for Miss E to 
withdraw money on his behalf. Miss E explained that her father was housebound and 
wouldnt speak on the phone and she didnt want the business to visit him at home.
Miss E was told she would not be able to access the money in Mr Es account from 
23 November 2018. The account had £19,000 left in it.
Miss E opened an account with another bank I will call Bank D and had her fathers 
pension paid into that account. They were without money for 3 weeks whilst this was 
being set up.
NBS raised concerns with social services and she received a visit from Social 
services and the police on 19 March 2019. After this visit she was shaken and 
extremely upset. She explained that Mr E was also upset by the visit from Social 
services.
Mr E passed away in February 2020.
Miss E complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint- she 
issued a first view where she thought NBS had done nothing wrong. Miss E disagreed and 
on further investigation, the Investigator issued a second view. In her second view she 
agreed that NBS should have made efforts to contact Mr E after the visit from Social 
services to know how he wanted to use his account going forward, she awarded £200 
compensation for the inconvenience  Mr E would have suffered because he was unable to 
access his savings. 
NBS accepted the view. They said they should have contacted Mr E after the visit from 
Social services.
Miss E rejected the view she said Social services and the police visited their home because 
of what NBS had reported to them. Miss E said that her fathers condition was made worse 
after the visit from Social services. She didnt think £200 was sufficient compensation.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has said she would like to provide more information in order for me to be able to 
reach my decision. Specifically, she wants to get more information from social services  On 
review of the information provided I have enough information to reach a fair outcome on this 
complaint and I dont think that more information from Social services will aid me in reaching 
a fair and reasonable outcome. I would like to reassure Miss E that I have looked at all the 
information she has provided and listened to calls she has made to this service in order to 
gain understanding of her position. 
On looking at the information before me I am satisfied that Social services were contacted by 
NBS.
I understand Miss E may like to pursue a complaint against Social services and /or the police 
following the visit to their house on 19 March. The complaint Miss E has brought to us is in 
relation to NBS so any complaint she may have about Social services or the police will need 
to be pursued elsewhere and I understand from information she has provided us that she is 
in the process of following this up.
Contact before the visit on 19 March
Ive seen evidence to suggest that NBS tried to arrange a visit to Mr E after the third-party 
withdrawal arrangement ended. Ive also seen from the file notes that NBS offered to speak 
to Mr E. I understand Mr E was hard of hearing, but Miss E wouldnt allow the call.
I understand from Miss E she wanted NBS to write to Mr E in order to sort out a way forward 
with the use of the account. Im satisfied that NBS wrote to Mr E after each withdrawal  but I 
have seen no evidence they contacted Mr E to see how he wanted to operate the account 
going forward.
Miss E has said the account activity hadnt changed between her father operating the 
account and Miss E operating the account under a third-party mandate. I agree that there 
are no unusual withdrawals on the account. However, despite this I still think NBS were right 
to be concerned, as they were not able to see or speak to Mr E. And I dont think sending 
Mr E a letter asking for his instructions on how the account should operate in future would 
have been sufficient to discharge their obligations to a potentially vulnerable customer.
Miss E has mentioned that she thought NBS should have to exhaust all options before 
making contact with Social services. But I disagree, in view of the difficulties NBS had in 
contacting Mr E and Miss Es reactions to NBS requests I can see how they may have been 
concerned about Mr E. 
I have seen evidence that shows that NBS contacted Social services in January 2019 about 
their concerns with Mr E, and Im satisfied that they did nothing wrong when they referred 
Mr Es case to Social services.
Access to the savingsMiss E has told us that due to the issues she had in branch she was not able to access the 
funds in the account. She set up a new account for her fathers pension to be paid into. She 
told us he was without money for three weeks. I appreciate this must have been difficult for 
Miss E. But having looked at the evidence Im satisfied NBS had genuine concerns about 
Mr E as they were not able to contact him by phone.  I can also see from the 
correspondence Miss E declined a visit offered by NBS to either make the account a joint 
account or appoint a power of attorney. 
I appreciate Miss E might think it unreasonable NBS would suspect her of financial abuse. 
But Its sadly not uncommon for older and vulnerable people to be taken advantage of and a 
financial institution must put measures in place to safeguard their customers if they have 
concerns. 
Miss E has said NBS shouldve written to her father to check he was aware of the position 
on the account. Sadly a letter to the home address is usually not a good way to find out if 
everything is ok with a customer, as it is possible to intercept letters and for someone who is 
taking advantage of a vulnerable customer to confirm that everything is alright when it isnt.  
For this reason, I dont think sending a letter to Mr E would have been sufficient to alleviate 
NBSs concerns.
I understand it would have been distressing, and inconvenient for Mr E to not have access to 
his money for three weeks prior to opening his new account. However, as Ive explained I 
think that NBSs concerns about financial abuse were justified  and they didnt act unfairly 
here. 
The visit on 19 March 
Social services and the police visited Mr Es home on the 19 March 2019, two months after 
NBSs referral to them. During that time, I understand from the evidence that Social services 
tried to make contact with Miss E, but there was no response. 
I appreciate that Miss E is upset NBS contacted Social services and in doing so caused her 
father unnecessary anxiety. However, I think NBS contacted Social services because they 
had legitimate concerns about Mr E, so I dont think NBS did anything wrong there. 
Miss E is concerned that NBS gave the impression to Social services that they had written to 
Mr E and had received no reply. And it was this that prompted Social services to visit their 
home on 19 March 2019. But I dont think that is the case. Im aware from information 
provided by Miss E that Social services had their own concerns about Mr E because they 
were unable to speak to him, which led them to visit Mr E at home. So, I dont think their visit 
to Mr E on the 19 March was prompted solely by what NBS had told them. From the 
evidence it looks like they tried to make their own enquiries and because they were unable 
to satisfy themselves regarding Mr Es wellbeing, they decided to make a visit to the house. 
I appreciate NBS originally made the referral, but Social services made their own enquiries 
and it was their decision to carry out a visit, so I dont think NBS can be blamed for the visit 
taking place or what transpired at the visit. This means I cant hold NBS responsible for what 
Social services and the police did when they visited the property.
Contact after the visit on 19 March
NBS has accepted following the investigators second view, that they had fallen short of the 
service they should have offered. NBS accept that after being notified that Social services 
didnt have any concerns about financial abuse, they should have contacted Mr E about how 
he wanted to access money in his account going forward. As Ive mentioned, I understand why NBS didnt contact Mr E by letter before March 2019 because of concerns they had. 
However, after the visit from Social services, they should have been reassured that nothing 
untoward was happening with Mr Es finances and Miss E was in fact looking after her father 
very well.
Because theyve accepted they should have got in touch with Mr E to find a way to allow him 
access to his savings, NBS have offered £200 to the estate for the distress and upset Mr E 
suffered in not being able to access his money. Miss E has said that this amount is not 
sufficient, and it belittles the difficulties her father experienced.
Ive gone on to consider whether £200 is the correct amount of compensation for their 
failings. Its difficult for me to assess this as unfortunately I cant ask Mr E to describe the 
impact not having access to his account had on him. So, Ive taken account of Miss Es 
descriptions in her letter to us received in December 2019, when she told us how the visit 
from Social services had impacted her father. 
Miss E mentioned that Mr E began having nightmares and became very anxious. He had to 
be admitted into hospital and had breathing problems and had to use an inhaler. He also 
ended up on anti-depressants.
Miss E has also told us her father was a traditional person who took great comfort from 
knowing there were savings in his account. Not knowing how he could access these savings 
would have affected him greatly and impacted his health.
Looking at the evidence I can see that a great part of the distress caused to Mr E was due to 
what happened at the property on the day of the visit from Social services and the police. 
But as Ive said I cant hold NBS responsible for this.
I recognise Mr E was impacted during the last 11 months of his life by not having the issue 
with his account resolved and not having access to his account. I do think NBS should have 
written Mr E a letter asking him how he wanted to handle his account in the future.
In deciding on the amount of compensation I have also taken into consideration that Mr E 
was very distressed at not being able to access his money and I have listened to calls where 
Miss E describes how important Mr Es savings were to him, so I dont doubt that he was 
very distressed. 
Ive seen a letter from Social services dated 26 April 2019 addressed to Miss E which 
confirms that following the visit on 19 March 2019 Social services had no concerns and they 
had communicated this to NBS. I therefore think that Miss E could have contacted NBS to 
gain access to Mr Es account after April 2019.
Neither Mr E nor Miss E on his behalf contacted NBS after the Social services visit to access 
his funds. And if they had done, Id have expected the bank to write to Mr E to ask for his 
permission for Miss E to withdraw funds on his behalf. And Ive considered this when 
thinking about the compensation. 
Miss E has said that her dad not being able to access his savings was devastating and she 
wasnt able to correct that. I acknowledge that its distressing for her that she wasnt able to 
put things right for her father at the time, however this isnt something that I can ask NBS to 
compensate for as the complaint relates to Mr Es account.
Putting things rightTaking all this into consideration I think compensation of £200 should be payable to Miss E 
representing the estate. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss E but for the reasons 
set out above I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold Mr Es complaint and I require Nottingham 
Building Society to pay Miss E as the representative of the estate £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman