DRN-4222235
The complaint
Mr H, who is represented by a third party, complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement (agreement) he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr H acquired a used car (costing £14,799.00) financed by an agreement 
from Zopa.
 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make 
59 monthly repayments of £344.12 followed by 1 monthly payment of £343.87. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £20,646.95.
Mr H says that Zopa didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Zopa didnt agree. It said that it considered 
several factors including (but not limited to) Mr Hs credit profile, credit history, and the 
information he had submitted as part of his application before agreeing to lend. And the 
various checks it undertook caused it no concern.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and concluded that Zopa did nothing 
wrong in agreeing to lend.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided 
detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Zopa and Mr Hs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and 
good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. 
Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr H declared his annual gross income as £60,000. Zopa said it verified this (and calculated 
the same as equating to approximately £3,600 a month net) and Im satisfied it did so. 
Therefore, and given that Mr H doesnt dispute £60,000 was indeed his annual gross income 
at the relevant time, Im satisfied that Zopa carried out and reasonable (and proportionate) 
checks in this respect.
I will now turn to Mr Hs expenditure and the checks Zopa carried out in this respect.
Zopa said it carried out a credit check and has provided our service with a copy of that 
check. Ive considered Zopas credit check, and Im satisfied that it was entitled to conclude 
from this check that Mr H had approximately £13,500 of unsecured debt (across 7 accounts) 
and that the monthly servicing cost of this debt was approximately £800, and that Mr H had 
a mortgage debt of approximately £220,000 with a monthly servicing cost of approximately 
£770 a month.
Im also satisfied that based on what Mr H declared and the outcome of its credit check Zopa 
was entitled to assume that each month Mr H had a disposable income of approximately 
£2,030 (£3,600 less £800 less £770) to meet all of his other existing expenditure (both 
discretionary and non-discretionary) and the proposed agreement payment of £344.12.
Im aware that Mr H says that immediately prior to being granted finance by Zopa he had 
taken out a number of loans (including short term high cost ones) which although reflected 
(to some extent) in the credit report he has provided our service arent reflected in the credit 
check undertaken by Zopa. But Im not persuaded, based on what all the parties have said 
and submitted, that Zopa should have thought to question the accuracy of the credit check it 
undertook. I would also add that sometimes there is a delay on the part of businesses in 
reporting information to credit reference agencies and occasions where businesses dont 
report information to all of the credit reference agencies. 
Finally on this point I would also add that Ive seen nothing in the credit report provided by 
Mr H, or the credit check undertaken by Zopa, in respect of arrears, late payments and 
settled debt that, in itself, should have caused Zopa to conclude that it shouldnt lend.
The investigator came to the view that Zopa should have asked Mr H about his expenditure. 
Now given the checks undertaken by Zopa and what these checks revealed or uncovered I 
dont necessarily agree. But for the sake of completeness, Ive gone on to consider what 
Zopa might have reasonably discovered had it done so.
Based on what Mr H has said and submitted, Im of the view that had Zopa asked him about 
his expenditure he would have declared a sum in this respect of approximately £2,600. And 
such a figure, in my view, wouldnt have caused, nor should it have caused, Zopa to 
conclude it shouldnt lend.
I dont dispute that immediately prior to being granted finance by Zopa Mr H might have 
been gambling. But based on what Mr H has said and submitted Im not persuaded that he 
would have declared his gambling costs to Zopa as a monthly expenditure. 
Finally, and for the avoidance of doubt, I like the investigator am satisfied that Zopa was 
under no obligation to have requested bank statements from Mr H so I make no finding on 
what Zopa might have concluded, or should have concluded, had it done so.
Given what I say above I can confirm that Im satisfied that Zopa did nothing wrong in 
agreeing to lend to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman