DRN-4441277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly declined their subsidence 
claim on their property insurance policy. 
Any reference to HDI includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F renewed their property insurance policy covering their home and its contents 
in September 2021. In August 2022, they submitted a claim as theyd noticed their 
conservatory separating from their house. They say they saw cracks under the window, at 
the rear corner of their property and on the boundary wall. 
HDI arranged for an inspection of the property. The report from the time said the cracks to 
the main building werent consistent with subsidence and instead were caused by thermal 
expansion of the masonry. But it accepted there had been movement to the foundations 
under the conservatory. It said this was caused by roots of an oak tree at a depth of 
2.55 metres, drying out and shrinking the clay soil under the foundations. 
HDI declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It thought their conservatory had been built sometime 
between 2003 and 2005 on foundations that werent deep enough considering the type of 
soil and the presence of the mature oak tree. It mentioned good practice and regulations at 
the time the conservatory was built, but it didnt provide evidence of this. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept what HDI said and made a complaint. They highlighted the 
conservatory was built before they bought the property. And they didnt think HDI had carried 
out a full investigation due to restrictions in digging trial holes on and around their property. 
They also pointed out that their neighbours property had been affected by subsidence. 
As HDI didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, they asked our service to look into things. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She said HDI hadnt provided anything to show the 
conservatory foundations werent built in line with good practice or relevant regulations. So 
she looked at the possible regulations from the time and considered whether foundations of 
one metre below the conservatory wouldve made a difference. Overall, considering the 
depth of the roots, she didnt think deeper foundations wouldve prevented the subsidence 
from happening. 
Mr and Mrs F accepted our Investigators assessment. HDI didnt confirm whether it 
accepted or not by the extended deadline set. But it did send us internal correspondence 
explaining it didnt have any evidence to show the foundations were too shallow. 
Whilst our service has been looking into things, HDI contacted Mr and Mrs F around 
August 2023 to let them know it wouldnt renew their insurance policy for another year. As 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with this, HDI raised a new complaint. But as part of putting 
things right in this complaint, our Investigator instructed HDI to continue to provide 
subsidence cover. This was to ensure Mr and Mrs F are put in the position they wouldve 
been in if the claim hadnt been declined.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
To decline Mr and Mrs Fs claim on their policy, HDI has relied on the exclusion within its 
terms and conditions relating to subsidence. In summary, this says claims for loss caused by 
subsidence wont be covered if it arises from defective design, faulty workmanship or the use 
of defective materials. But I dont think its for fair HDI to rely on this exclusion in this case  
and I dont think its fairly declined the claim. 
HDI says the foundations under Mr and Mrs Fs conservatory didnt meet the relevant 
standards at the time it was built  and thats for it to evidence. But its not provided any 
information to our service to show this  or even what the standards were. So Im not 
satisfied in this case that HDI has established the design or construction was defective. 
In any event, even if the design or construction were defective, I need to be satisfied that 
was the reason for the damage Mr and Mrs F have now claimed for  and Im not persuaded 
it is. I say this because, from the information HDIs given us, the roots from the oak tree were 
growing 2.55 metres underground. This is substantially lower down than the foundations 
wouldve gone even if they were built in line with what our Investigator found might have 
been good practice at the time. So I dont think deeper foundations wouldve made a 
difference in this case as it seems very likely to me that the subsidence wouldve happened 
anyway. 
I think whats happened in this case wouldve caused Mr and Mrs F trouble and upset 
considering how long its been since they first raised their claim and the level of damage to 
their property. So I think HDI should pay them compensation to make up for this. 
Mr and Mrs F have asked whether HDI will reassess the damage to their main building as 
theyre not persuaded the inspection that was carried out was thorough enough to conclude 
there wasnt subsidence damage to that part of the building. The report from the time 
concludes the cracks in the main building were due to thermal expansion of the masonry. 
And we havent been given any evidence from either party to dispute this. So I havent 
considered this point as part of this complaint. Its worth noting however, in settling this type 
of claim, HDI is responsible for ensuring an effective and lasting repair to the property. 
Putting things right
To put Mr and Mrs F in the position they wouldve been in if their claim hadnt been unfairly 
declined, I think HDI should:
Accept the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Pay £200 to Mr and Mrs F to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
them. Mr and Mrs F have told us HDI refused to renew their policy around August 2023. I 
understand HDI is looking into this as a new complaint. And I dont have any information 
about why the renewal has been declined  so I cant comment on it here. But in order to put 
things right, Mr and Mrs F should be put in the position they wouldve been in had HDI 
assessed the claim fairly.
Had HDI initially accepted the subsidence claim and carried out repairs, Id expect it to have 
continued insuring Mr and Mrs Fs property under the ABI guidance (which its signed up to), 
subject to its underwriting criteria. So I think it needs to ensure they continue to have access 
to subsidence cover on their property. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and direct HDI Global 
Specialty SE to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman