DRN-3315678
The complaint
Mr H complains that he received poor service from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva). He says, amongst other things, that it ignored his requests and instructions and 
that he is now being required to send three letters each time he makes a deposit. 
He wants money held as cash to be invested retrospectively; deposits to be accepted 
without the need for letters; signed for letters to stop; and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Aviva has caused.
What happened
Our investigator set out in some detail what happened, and I wont repeat that again here. 
Mr Hs main complaint points are that:
He asked for the advisor to be removed from his account and this wasnt done for some 
time.
He makes two deposits each month and Aviva insists on paperwork being completed 
which will result in him having to send three letters for each deposit. Its ignored his 
requests to change this process.
Without specific instructions, his deposits have been held in cash, rather than invested in 
line with his previous fund target instructions.
Aviva continued to send him signed for letters after hed told them the inconvenience 
and difficulty this causes him.
His instructions have been ignored and hes being unfairly pressured to resume use of 
an advisor.
Aviva accepted it had made some errors. In particular it apologised for continuing to send 
him signed for letters, for the confusion over removing the advisor from his account, for not 
setting out at an earlier stage the implications of removing the advisor; and the delay in 
sending Mr H the relevant forms for a £100,000 transfer. It paid him £175 for the resulting 
inconvenience. It explained its service was designed for consumers with financial advisors 
and with online access and it said that without an advisor and with Mr H requiring all 
communication to be by post, transactions would take longer and would require Mr H to 
complete more paperwork.
Our investigator concluded Aviva should have done more to assist Mr H. He said Aviva:
Hadnt recognise the impact of Mr Hs communication needs and his lack of telephone 
and computer access. It failed to warn Mr H of the increased paperwork burden that 
would be required of him.
Hadnt acted on Mr Hs requests to change his postal paperwork to not signed for and 
hadnt recognised the significant inconvenience that caused him.
Failed over many months to respond to Mr Hs many requests for help with his large ISA 
transfer.
And he thought Aviva should pay an additional £200 compensation.
The investigator explained that this service couldnt tell Aviva to change the way it operates 
under its agreed terms and conditions.
Aviva agreed with the investigators conclusions. It also said it would make a further 
adaptation of its processes for Mr H. It said it would use the current source of wealth 
information it held for Mr H for any future investments, provided he confirmed in writing that 
he had read the required documentation and that his investment choice and split were the 
same as for previous contributions.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Matters remain outstanding which Aviva hasnt dealt with.
He told Aviva his cash deposits should be invested as before, but this wasnt done. He 
should be compensated for Avivas failure to invest his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
The investigator provided a detailed summary for both parties. And he set out in detail the 
reasons for the conclusion he reached. Having considered everything very carefully, I find I 
have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for largely the same reasons. In 
summary:
Aviva made some mistakes and should have provided a better service to Mr H. Its 
acknowledged this, and apologised.
In view of Mr Hs disabilities, it was obliged to make reasonable adjustments to allow him to 
continue to access its service. I find it has done this  by agreeing to communicate by post; 
and by recently offering to use the current source of wealth form for future investments 
where Mr Hs investment choice and split are the same as for his previous contributions.
I am sorry Mr H is facing difficulties using Avivas service. And I know he feels he is being 
blamed for this. But the service Aviva offers, as set out in its terms and conditions, is an 
online platform supported by an independent financial advisor. Mr H has chosen to remove 
his advisor. In doing so, he will naturally have more administration to complete which would 
have previously been completed by the advisor.I dont find theres an obligation on Aviva to back-date the investment of Mr Hs deposits. Im 
satisfied that the deposits were held as cash, as set out in Avivas terms and conditions, 
pending specific investment instructions.
Aviva has already paid Mr H £175 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused. Its agreed to pay an additional £200 as recommended by our investigator. 
I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As outlined above, some of 
the inconvenience Mr H is now facing has not been caused by mistakes made by Aviva; 
rather by the lack of support from an advisor on the account  which is how the account is 
set up to operate.
The investigator clearly set out Mr Hs options for going forward  to continue with the 
service on the basis offered by Aviva; to reappoint an advisor to remove the administrative 
burden; or to move to a new provider who can offer a more tailored service to meet Mr Hs 
needs. Mr H will need to decide what the best course of action will be for him going forward. 
In the meantime, if he decides to accept this decision, Aviva has agreed to adjust its service 
as outlined above.
Lastly, Aviva has sent us copies of recent correspondence with Mr H. I can see that he has 
complained about some other matters. To be clear, I can only decide on the matters he 
referred to us in May 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr H £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman