DRN-3614284
The complaint
Miss K and Mr M complain about the service provided by The Co-operative Bank Plc trading 
as Britannia when redeeming their mortgage. They say Britannia sent their annual statement 
to the incorrect address and has applied fees to the mortgage account unfairly. 
What happened
Miss K and Mr M took out a mortgage with Britannia in 2007. The mortgage was redeemed 
in January 2022. However following the redemption of the mortgage Britannia sent Miss K 
and Mr M an annual mortgage statement, this was sent to the property address but by the 
time it arrived they had moved out after selling the property and redeeming the mortgage. 
Miss K and Mr M also queried why they had been charged additional fees that they hadnt 
agreed to. They say Britannia incorrectly charged them for an additional redemption 
statement and mortgage title management fee. Unhappy with this they complained. 
Britannia issued a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. It acknowledged the 
annual statement had been sent to the incorrect address, but Britannia say this was because 
it had been generated automatically with the details it had on its systems. It also didnt agree 
the fees had been charged incorrectly and says these were charged in line with the latest 
tariff of charges. Miss K and Mr M didnt agree so referred the complaint to us.   
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Britannia acted unfairly so they 
didnt uphold it. Miss K and Mr M remained unhappy so asked for an ombudsman to look at 
this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The charges added to the account
When Miss K and Mr M took out the mortgage in 2007, the mortgage offer set out the fees 
that would be charged and what fees would need to be paid upon its redemption. Britannia 
has told us the fees at the time were a £125 discharge fee and a £35 deed release fee. 
Britannia provided us with copies of annual mortgage statements sent to Miss K and Mr M 
which set out the charges that would be applied on redemption of the mortgage. These 
charges arent uncommon for mortgage products and its also not uncommon for these to be 
reviewed over time providing notice is given to the borrower. 
Britannia has provided us with evidence to show these fees were reviewed throughout the 
time Miss K and Mr M held the mortgage. By the time Miss K and Mr M redeemed their 
mortgage the updated fees were the Mortgage Exit fee of £50 and Title Management fee of 
£50 and had been at this level since 2019. The fees from 2019 also highlight a £25 charge 
for an additional redemption statement. 
Britannia hasnt provided us evidence to show how it updated Miss K and Mr M on these 
latest fees but considering the fees charged to Miss K and Mr M were lower than those 
included at the time they took the mortgage I dont think it was unreasonable for it to apply 
these latest lower fees when Miss K and Mr M redeemed the mortgage in January 2022. 
Ive also considered if Britannia fairly charged Miss K and Mr M the additional redemption 
statement fee of £25. This fee was also set out by Britannia in its tariff of charges. Miss K 
and Mr Ms solicitors first requested a redemption statement on 19 October 2021 and a 
further redemption statement on 6 December 2021. Because a second redemption 
statement was requested by their solicitors, I cant say Britannia unfairly applied this charge.
data breach   
Britannia have accepted the annual mortgage statement was sent to the incorrect address. 
But it says the statement would have been automatically generated at the beginning of 
January. Its common practice for annual mortgage statements to be generated in this way 
due to the number of customers that they need to be sent to. And because at the time the 
statement was generated the mortgage hadnt been redeemed, I dont think Britannia acted 
unreasonably in sending it out to the details it had on its records at the time. 
I also cant see that Miss K and Mr M have suffered any loss due to the statement being sent 
to their previous address, although I appreciate it is likely to have caused them some 
concern to learn that this had happened. Britannia has apologised for this and I think thats 
fair in the circumstances.
So overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss K and Mr M, Im not 
persuaded Britannia has acted unfairly or has overcharged them on redemption of their 
mortgage. In the circumstances I wont be asking Britannia to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman