DRN-3328600
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin) dealt 
with a credit agreement she tells us was fraudulently taken out in her name.   
What happened
Miss H tells us a parcel was delivered to her unexpectedly. She opened it up and saw it 
contained a phone and a welcome letter from Virgin. She was going to contact Virgin about it 
but received a call from someone alleging they worked at Virgin. They told Miss H the 
delivery was a mistake and that a courier would collect the phone, which is what happened 
shortly afterwards. 
As Miss H thought this was strange, she contacted her bank and found out a direct debit had 
been set up, which she asked it to block. She contacted a reporting centre for fraud and 
financial crime and then spoke to Virgin on 13 October 2021, to notify it of the fraud. She 
says shes unhappy it didnt respond to her when it said it would, and she was unhappy 
things werent progressing. So, she contacted our service on 5 November 2021, to raise a 
complaint. 
A few days later Virgin decided to unwind the loan agreement that was used to purchase the 
phone and it arranged to contact the credit reference agencies to delete the account from 
Miss Hs credit file. It sent a final response on the 12 November 2021. It apologised it had let 
Miss H down and confirmed she wouldnt be held liable for the credit agreement. It said it 
had provided internal feedback and gave a contact name and number in case Miss H 
needed to get in touch. 
Miss H let our service know she was unhappy with the resolution. She said she was 
unhappy she wasnt told why Virgin didnt take action sooner. And that Virgin hadnt taken 
the amount of stress shed been caused into account. She highlighted shed been unable to 
get through to Virgin because she couldnt answer the security questions and that she was 
unhappy at one point it looked like shed have been held responsible. 
Virgin explained to our service that it had no reason to believe the application wasnt 
genuine. And that once it carried out its checks it had closed the account. It said it was 
unable to carry out the investigation on the day it was notified. But it again apologised for the 
contact during its investigation. 
One of our investigators looked into things but thought Virgin had done enough to put things 
right. But Miss H didnt agree. She said Virgin hadnt called her back with the updates it had 
promised. She didnt think it had progressed things quickly enough. And that without the 
intervention of our service she thinks shed likely have still been dealing with the issue. She 
didnt think the apology was sincere and sufficient. She also questioned why automated 
letters were issued when a live fraud case was ongoing.
As things couldnt be resolved the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Miss H has been unwell. And I thank her for taking the 
time to bring her complaint to our service. 
I imagine Miss H was very concerned to have found out shed been the victim of a scam. It 
sounds like the whole thing happened very quickly, and it must have been very worrying for 
her. I can understand why she would have wanted this resolved urgently and any delays and 
failings in customer service from Virgin would have added to the already significant stress. 
However, like our investigator pointed out, I think the primary cause of the issue here is the 
fraudsters actions. It sounds like they had sufficient information to make an application for 
credit. Given what weve been told, they knew at the very least Miss Hs name; address; 
telephone number; and bank details. I do have to bear in mind Virgin has been defrauded 
here as well, by a significant sum that it has agreed to write off. And Virgin cant be held 
responsible for the stress caused by the fraudsters actions. 
However, Miss H has also complained about the way Virgin handled things generally. So, 
Ive thought about what happened. Its hard to get evidence of the calls Miss H said were cut 
off because she couldnt pass security. But her account of what happened has been 
credible, so I dont doubt what shes saying. And I can also see that Virgins notes indicate 
Miss H was told to wait a few days for a report to be carried out. Miss H says she was 
waiting for a call back which I cant see took place. So, I can understand why she was 
unhappy with this, and why she decided to refer the complaint to our service. 
What I do have to bear in mind though is that its not unreasonable for Virgin to have wanted 
to look into things. It was being asked to unwind an agreement and write off a significant 
sum. So, Id have been surprised if it did this without carrying out further checks. But, like 
Ive said above, it should have followed up on any promises it made to contact Miss H at 
what was a worrying time. 
With regards to the other contact Miss H tells us she received from Virgin, I can also 
understand why this compounded things. And I agree it shouldve been a simple matter to 
supress that sort of contact while a fraud investigation was going on. 
Virgin agreed to unwind the agreement within a month of it being taken out. So, I think its 
taken action within a reasonable amount of time in all the circumstances. Its offered an 
apology for the service failing which I think is fair. And its corrected Miss Hs credit file which 
Id have expected it to do. Miss H has said shes unhappy with the apology. But I cant 
practicably direct Virgin to make a more sincere apology. And given its now taken the 
actions Ive set out above, Im not persuaded asking it to issue a more detailed apology is 
needed. 
In all the circumstances, while I can appreciate why Miss H is still unhappy, I think Virgin has 
broadly done enough to put things right. So, Im not going to direct it to take further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to the extent its not done so already, Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited should ensure the agreement has been cancelled and Miss Hs credit file updated 
accordingly. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman