DRN-3938309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) 
didnt do enough to protect them from falling victim to an investment scam. 
Mr and Mrs T are being represented by a family member, Mr R, in their complaint. For ease, 
Ill mostly refer to relevant acts and comments as being Mrs Ts.   
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs T was cold called by a limited company, Q, and was persuaded to 
invest in a mini bond that offered a rate of return of around 9%. She was told to write a 
cheque in favour of a different limited company, S. Mrs T invested £15,000 and received a 
copy of the bond certificate. 
In the summer of 2020, Mrs T received a letter from a firm informing her that Q had gone into 
liquidation, and it could help her recover her funds. She subsequently learnt that this firm as 
well as Q was a scam. Mrs T reached out to M&S Bank and reported that shed been 
scammed.
M&S Bank declined Mrs Ts claim for a refund. It said it wasnt responsible for her loss as the 
payment was made by cheque and was therefore authorised.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as they thought that M&S Bank could have prevented 
the scam if it had intervened and questioned Mrs T about the payment. 
M&S Bank disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. I issued my 
provisional decision last month. I said that I didnt intend upholding this complaint, and set 
out the following reasoning:
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is 
important because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to 
protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene 
isnt triggered where payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Ive carefully considered the available information about Q. This includes the notice 
of liquidation dated July 2021 from Qs actual liquidators which raises concerns about 
Qs operations and encourages all creditors to report the matter to the Police. The 
notice also encourages creditors to approach their banks for a refund as a victim of 
fraud. Under the circumstances, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs T was 
scammed. But that doesnt mean that shes automatically entitled to a refund.
A cheque is a written order from a customer (the drawer), instructing their bank to 
pay a specified sum of money to a named beneficiary (the payee). Cheques arent 
legal tender but are legal documents and their use is governed by the Bills of 
Exchange Act 1882 and the Cheques Acts of 1957 and 1992. They arent considered 
a payment service under the previous or present Payment Services Regulations, so 
the provisions of those regulations dont apply to this type of payment instrument.
A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms 
and conditions of the account (and of course the customers ancillary contract with 
the third-party payee, e.g., a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc.). This position has long 
been recognised in common law. So, if a bank fails to comply with a validly executed 
payment order, it could be held liable for damages  as could the drawer  where the 
payment method used is a cheque.
What that means is the starting position is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue delay. 
So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the terms of the account, a 
bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, regulatory or contractual 
grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of a payment 
instruction.   
Here, it is accepted that the payment mandate was validly executed (authorised) as 
Mrs T herself had written, signed and issued the cheque to the named payee, S. At 
the time, she intended to pay S and there was no mistake made in the execution of 
the payment. So, under the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs T is presumed 
liable for any loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
M&S Bank ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer 
was at risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before 
processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that a bank 
should be less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence, just because the payment is 
by cheque. 
That said, unlike electronic payments (including plastic card transactions), a cheque 
cant be screened at the point of payment (which happens at the time of the writing 
and issuing of the cheque). A drawers bank (in this case M&S Bank) would only 
become aware of the request for payment once the cheque is paid in by the payee 
and sent for clearing by the receiving bank. The cheque issued by Mrs T was cleared 
through the Image Clearing System (ICS). Under this new system, instead of sending 
the paper cheque, the payees bank sends a digital image of the cheque to the 
drawers bank. This allows cheques to clear in two working days instead of six. So, 
theres a limited window of opportunity for a bank to interrupt and investigate a 
potentially fraudulent cheque payment. 
Ive considered the operation of Mr and Mrs Ts account in the year leading up to the 
£15,000 cheque payment in question. I acknowledge that at the start of 2019, Mrs T 
made several electronic payments ranging between £5,000 and £10,000 to her 
daughters. But I cant see a payment in the region of £15,000. Nor can I see any 
cheque payments from the account during that period. In my view, the amount as 
well as the payment method represented an unusual spending activity on the 
account. I consider that M&S Bank ought reasonably to have had cause for concern 
and I think it could and should have carried out a few more checks to satisfy itself 
that everything was okay. But that isnt the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in 
every scam case. It isnt enough that a bank failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its 
acts or omissions must be the immediate and effective cause of losses that were 
reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. 
The investigators view was that had M&S Bank intervened and provided a scam 
warning, it would have prevented Mrs Ts loss. But Im not persuaded this would have 
been the case. If, as I have concluded, M&S Bank should have probed further about 
the payment, it would still have been for Mrs T  not M&S Bank  then to satisfy 
herself of the legitimacy of the investment. And based on the evidence available to 
me, Im persuaded, on balance, that she would still have gone ahead with the 
payment even if the bank had intervened. I say this because:
Q was a limited company registered at Companies House, and there was 
limited
information available at the time which would have raised concerns about its 
legitimacy;
There were no regulator warnings registered about either Q or S;
The representative for Q was contactable, so had Mrs T gone back to them to 
raise questions, it is likely she would have been given a persuasive and 
satisfactory response;
At the time of reporting the scam, Mrs T advised M&S Bank that shed already 
researched the investment before going ahead; in a call Mrs T said that shed 
been through it quite a lot.
I also think it is important to highlight that once a cheque has been written, issued, 
and presented for payment, it cant be stopped by the drawer simply because they 
have regrets or second thoughts. A bank can only return a cheque unpaid if it has 
permissible reasons to do so. These include:
cheque fraud, i.e., fraudulently altered or forged cheques;
insufficient funds in the account being drawn on;
a stop placed on the cheque for being lost or stolen;
differing amounts and words;
missing or specimen signature mismatch;
cheque alteration not correctly validated; or
if the bank was sure the cheque was obtained fraudulently or was an attempt 
to misappropriate funds.
Even if I were to accept that an intervention by M&S Bank would have led to Mrs T 
taking a different course of action (for the avoidance of doubt, that isnt my finding 
here), I dont think this would have resulted in a different outcome. This is because 
Im not persuaded that Mrs T would have been able to provide M&S Bank with a 
permissible reason to return the cheque unpaid in the small window of opportunity it 
had before the cheque was settled through the clearing process. Any recovery after 
this point would have been on a best endeavours basis  and the decision to return 
any funds (if any remained) would sit with the beneficiary bank.
Ive considered whether M&S Bank did enough to recover Mrs Ts funds once it 
became aware of the situation in the summer of 2020. Banks are expected to assist 
their customers in recovering misappropriated or misdirected funds when put on 
notice. It unclear whether M&S Bank took steps to contact the beneficiary bank. But 
given the length of time that had passed since the cheque was cashed, I dont find that recovery in the circumstances would likely have been successful even if M&S 
Bank had attempted to contact the beneficiary bank after being notified of the scam.
Mr R states that other victims of Qs scam have had their stolen money refunded by 
their banks. He also submits that this service has upheld complaints referred to it. My 
role is to decide the case before me and in doing so Ive considered the facts of this 
case. It may well be that in the circumstances of the other cases, depending on the 
timing and the method of payment, an intervention from the bank could have 
prevented or limited the loss. But given the circumstances surrounding Mrs Ts case, 
for the reasons Ive given, I cant fairly say that M&S Banks acts or omissions were 
the proximate cause of her loss. It has, however, recognised that there were 
customer service failings and Mrs T had to wait a long time before her call was 
answered. It has paid £50, and I consider that amount to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
I invited further comments from both parties. 
M&S Bank hasnt responded, so Ive assumed that it has nothing further to add. 
Mr R said that he and Mr and Mrs T were disappointed that I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. In summary, hes said that M&S Bank has refunded another victim of Q because 
it agreed it was a scam. Mr R says the individual made the payment through online banking 
which means they would have also had to authorise the payment. He submits that this is the 
same as authorising the payment when paying by cheque. Mr R also reiterates that other 
victims of Qs scam  nearly 75%  have been refunded in full. And those that have gone on 
to refer their complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service were 100% successful.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr R for his comments. Im sorry to hear that Mrs T was very upset with my findings. 
I dont doubt that this is frustrating, and Mr and Mrs T have had to wait a long time for an 
outcome to be reached on their case. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that my role is to decide the case before me. This 
means I must consider each case on its merits. I dont know the full circumstances of the 
situation the individual Mr R has referred to found themselves in, or of the other complaints 
he says our service has upheld. But in general terms, it appears that the individual was 
tricked into making a payment through their online banking. This is commonly referred to as 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam. For APP scams, a voluntary code known as the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, came into effect in 2019. The aim of the 
code is to offer increased protection from APP scams. But the CRM code doesnt apply to all 
APP scam payments. 
Coming back to Mr and Mrs Ts case, Mrs T issued a cheque to the scammer. Technically, it 
isnt an APP scam. This also means that the CRM code isnt relevant here. In other words, 
the consideration that apply to this case might not be the same as other cases. For instance, 
with online payments, the opportunity for a bank to screen the transaction happens at the 
point of payment. But a cheque cant be screened at the point of payment, which happens at 
the time of the writing and issuing of the cheque. The bank has a limited window of 
opportunity to screen a cheque payment. Even then, there are limited number of permissible 
reasons to return a cheque unpaid. And as Ive already explained, Im not persuaded that Mrs T would have been able to provide M&S Bank with a permissible reason to return the 
cheque unpaid.
It may well be that in the circumstances of the other cases, depending on the timing and the 
method of payment, an intervention from the bank could have prevented or limited the loss. 
But I havent found that to be the case here.
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs T, and Mr R. Not least because our investigator previously upheld the complaint. But I 
think that its the cruel actions of the scammers  not M&S Bank  that caused the financial 
loss here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman