DRN-2272002
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in December 2003 alongside a 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr S and Ms S against unemployment, accidents and 
sickness.
Mr S and Ms S say they were told by Halifax that they needed the MPPI policy in order to 
obtain a mortgage. They say they were mis-sold the MPPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr S and Ms Ss complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S and Ms Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr S and Ms Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr S and Ms S say they werent given an option to have the MPPI policy.
I acknowledge what Mr S and Ms S have said about this. I cant be sure exactly what 
was discussed between Mr S and Ms S and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im 
also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections 
of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mr S and Ms S have told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware of the policy or that it was optional and that they 
chose to have it. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr S and Ms S and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr S and Ms S, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for them. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr S and Ms S based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mr S and Ms S both say they wouldve had sick pay (Ms S has told us her sick 
pay was 3-6 months). But I am persuaded the benefit would have been of use to Mr 
S and Ms S during a difficult time. I think, on balance, they would have found the 
cover provided of use to them in a time of need. I also couldnt find any other reason 
such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for them 
either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr S and Ms S took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
how much it cost and the benefits, I cannot be sure that the costs were disclosed to 
Mr S and Ms S in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr S and Ms S would have done anything different and 
decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr S and Ms S wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know it will come as a disappointment, I do not uphold Mr S 
and Ms Ss complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr S and Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman