DRN-3119347
The complaint
Ms F complains Santander UK plc (Santander) wouldnt allow her to open a new savings 
account following its maturity, over the telephone - only online.
What happened
Ms F says she has held an eSaver account with Santander for several years and has always 
previously on its annual maturity, opened a new one over the telephone. Ms F says she 
didnt receive any notification from Santander as she had previously each year, to inform her 
that the account was maturing or what her options were. So in February 2021, Ms F 
telephoned Santander about this and was informed she could no longer open a new eSaver 
account over the telephone and needed to apply for this online, due to the Covid pandemic. 
Ms F says she complained about this but never heard back from Santander and telephoned 
them again the following month. A few days after this telephone call, Ms F says she received 
the written response to the complaint dated the day she originally telephoned them in 
February 2021. 
Ms F says Santander shouldnt use the excuse of Covid as a reason not to provide the range 
of services it previously did, including the option to open accounts by telephone as she had 
previously. Ms F feels that Santander have discriminated against her as she has no access 
to a laptop or PC and believes its in Santanders own interest to pay as little as they can to 
savers like her. Ms F wants Santander to allow her to open a new eSaver account over the 
telephone and reimburse her for the interest she has lost on her savings during this time. 
Santander says it needed to adjust its processes to react to the pandemic and at the time 
and were unable to provide a telephone service to open an eSaver account. Santander have 
apologised to Ms F for the reduction in the services they provided its customers, but it 
doesnt feel it has done anything wrong. 
Ms F wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander had acted reasonably, given the impact of the Covid pandemic, 
when it took the decision to no longer accept telephone instructions to open savings 
accounts such as Ms Fs. The investigator says Santander are now resuming some in 
branch appointments which could be an option for Ms F to take. 
Ms F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms F when she was told she could only 
open a new eSaver account online and not over the telephone as she had previously. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted unreasonably when it told 
Ms F she could no longer open a new eSaver account over the telephone. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike.
Ms F says the terms and conditions of the eSaver account she held for several years, 
always allowed her to re-invest the annual maturing balance to a new account over the 
telephone, and I can see that was important to her. Ms F says she feels Santander have 
discriminated against her as she didnt have access to a laptop or PC so was unable to open 
a new eSaver online. Ms F says she didnt receive the usual annual reminder from 
Santander regarding her eSaver account and Santander didnt initially respond to her 
complaint when she rang them. Ms F also suggests Santander used the Covid pandemic as 
an excuse not to provide its full range of services and it benefits by paying savers like her a 
lower interest rate.
Its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic meant that many businesses faced problems 
that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its important that this is taken into 
account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable to impartially resolve a 
complaint. Here, I am satisfied Santander had to make some difficult business decisions and 
prioritise its key services, and one of those decisions was not to offer the opening of 
accounts by telephone banking. While I do understand that would have been frustrating for 
Ms F, its not for me to tell businesses like Santander what services it must offer, especially 
during an unprecedented event like the Covid pandemic. While this has caused 
inconvenience to Ms F as she has no access to a PC or laptop, I cant say this was 
discriminatory in any way, as all of its customers would have been affected by this decision. 
I cant see any evidence to support Ms Fs suggestion that Santander have used the Covid 
pandemic to pay lower interest rates to its customers and as I have mentioned earlier, this 
decision was taken to prioritise its key services and I am satisfied this is what it did here. 
I understand Ms F says she never received the response to her initial complaint until after 
she chased Santander the following month, but I have seen the response letter dated 18 
February 2021, which unfortunately doesnt seem to have been received by Ms F until the 
following month. That said I cant say this was deliberately held up by Santander, and in all 
likelihood the late delivery was in all probability a result of the pandemic affecting other 
businesses, like the postal service. 
As I have said earlier I cant tell Santander it must provide a telephone service allowing its 
customers to open savings account, as thats a business decision for them to take. But from 
what I have been told, Santander are now offering some in branch appointments which may 
be an option Ms F could consider.
While Ms F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman