DRN-2412811
The complaint
Ms C1 and Mrs C2 complain that Masthaven Bank Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with their application for a bridging loan. They want compensation.
What happened
Ms C1 and Mrs C2 had a property which they owned together (Mrs C2 owned part of the 
property and was Ms C1s mother). Ms C1 wanted to take out a bridging loan to buy a new 
property and applied to Masthaven. Ms C1 was unhappy about how Masthaven dealt with 
the process  she couldnt use her own choice of solicitor, that three valuations had to be 
provided (one for this property, one for the new one and one for a rental property she was in 
the process of selling), or the questions asked about Mrs C2 and her mental capacity and 
the requirement that Mrs C2 proved her capacity with a GP report.
Ms C1 complained and said Masthaven then agreed to offer the loan. But by then the seller 
of the property Ms C1 was trying to buy had pulled out of the sale. Ms C1 said shed spent 
about £4000 on solicitors fees, valuations, searches and furniture, as well as having lost out 
on the property, and felt Masthaven was responsible.
Masthaven said it had said Mrs C2 needed her own independent legal advice as she 
wouldnt benefit from the transaction. It had said Ms C1 couldnt use her choice of solicitors 
as there was only one partner and it was part of its lending policy that there had to be more 
than one. Masthaven said it had called Mrs C2 and it was evident she couldnt hear its 
questions and Mrs C2 said she had mild Parkinsons disease. It felt that as a result it had to 
ask a doctor to confirm Mrs C2 was able to make her own decisions. Masthaven said it 
needed valuations from a suitably qualified valuer and it was able to rely on their advice, but 
it had accepted an additional structural survey, despite it not being addressed to Masthaven.
Ms C1 and Mrs C2 complained to us. Masthaven explained that it waived the requirement for 
a GP report about Mrs C2 as an exception to help the transaction complete as required. It 
said that any delay was due to Ms C1 challenging the various requirements from Masthaven 
and holidays taken by Ms C1 and her solicitors. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that a lender 
could decide what lending policies to put in place, and this service couldnt challenge those 
processes. The investigator thought that Masthaven acted reasonably in asking Mrs C2 to 
get independent legal advice and requiring Ms C1 to use a firm of solicitors with more than 
one partner, and it was consistent with its lending policies. In relation to the GP report, the 
investigator said it was part of Masthavens process to call and the query arose from its 
conversation with Mrs C2. It agreed to waive the requirement to help, but the investigator 
didnt think it had acted unfairly or unreasonably. She agreed with Masthaven that much of 
the delays were because Ms C1 didnt agree with its requirements and went on holiday; the 
investigator didnt think Masthaven caused any delay.
Ms C1 and Mrs C2 didnt agree. They said Masthaven shouldve said from the start that 
Ms C1 needed a firm of solicitors with two partners or more, and it shouldnt have required a 
valuation for a property on which contracts had been exchanged (the rental property) as 
Ms C1 no longer owned it. They added that it was illegal to ask questions about a persons 
mental capacity, and it shouldve accepted the solicitors view.
Masthaven pointed out the application form says any firm instructed must have at least two 
partners and that all three properties were offered within the form as security. The 
investigator thought this was reasonable, and said if Ms C1 hadnt meant to offer the rental 
property as security, it wasnt Masthavens fault. The investigator noted that there was no 
evidence that asking about a persons mental capacity was illegal, but she thought that it 
was reasonable in the circumstances to safeguard Mrs C2. The evidence showed the 
requirement for a GP report was waived following consideration by the credit committee to 
ensure the deadline set was met. Ms C1 said she was told on the phone she could just use 
her solicitor and repeated her view it was illegal to ask about mental capacity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigators outcome for the reasons she has given is fair and reasonable. I 
dont think Masthaven has acted unfairly or unreasonably and is entitled to apply its own 
processes to consider applications. Theres no right to be offered a loan and prospective 
borrowers are well advised not to spend money on items such as furniture for a new property 
until they own it.
Its standard industry practice for lenders to require only law firms with at least two partners 
are instructed. This is a step to prevent theft or fraud. The application form even states this 
requirement, which shows how important it is. Masthaven cant be expected to know the 
details of every law firm in the country and I can see the application form as completed by 
Ms C1 or her broker wrongly says her first choice had two partners. I dont think Masthaven 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in enforcing this rule. And its settled law that if someone is 
involved in a transaction in which they dont obviously benefit, they should have the benefit 
of independent legal advice; I dont think there was anything unfair or unreasonable in 
Masthaven requiring Mrs C2 to get her own legal advice. The rule is there to protect her.
The same applies to the request that a GP confirmed Mrs C2s understanding of what was 
happening. Its noteworthy that Masthaven didnt simply look at Mrs C2s age and make 
assumptions; that potentially could be unlawful. Its staff called Mrs C2 and formed a view 
that they couldnt be confident she understood. I note the investigator from this service also 
spoke to Mrs C2 and noted similar issues as Masthaven, but this service wasnt looking to 
enter into a legally binding agreement concerning large sums of money for which Mrs C2 
wasnt going to benefit. 
Lenders are required to ensure if there are any grounds for concern that vulnerable persons 
are safeguarded. Solicitors arent experts in mental health and most refuse to confirm a 
clients mental health for this reason. Theres no evidence available to me that asking such 
questions are illegal as Ms C1 says; indeed, there are many decisions of this service where 
we uphold complaints against lenders for not checking this when there are grounds to do so.
Im satisfied that Masthaven followed its process and regulatory requirements in asking 
about Mrs C2s mental health. I can see it carefully considered the objections raised and 
agreed at a committee to waive it in help meet the deadline. In other words, it varied its 
process to meet Ms C1s concerns. This was fair and reasonable, as was its waiver of the 
requirement of the structural survey to be addressed to it.Ms C1 complains about the requirement for her to get valuations of the three properties she 
owned. First, its incorrect to say you no longer you own a property after exchanging 
contracts. You still own it until completion. More importantly, Ms C1 in her application form 
specifically offered all three properties as security to Masthaven. It wasnt Masthavens fault 
if she didnt mean to do that as it didnt complete the form. Its entirely reasonable for a 
lender to require a valuation of a property its being asked to accept as security.
I cant find that any delay was caused by Masthaven acting unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman