DRN-4074304
The complaint
Miss H has complained HSBC UK Bank plc provided inadequate compensation following 
costs she incurred after being a victim of fraud.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss Hs account with HSBC was compromised. Three payments and two 
internal transfers  from her childrens HSBC savings accounts  were completed without 
Miss Hs authorisation on 24 August.
Miss H phoned HSBC as soon as she got a text from them confirming her account was in 
overdraft and interest would be charged. Despite three calls to them, she wasnt able to get 
the fraud issue clarified to her satisfaction. She drove to her local branch to get things 
sorted.
Whilst at the branch, Miss H made it clear how upset she was about what had happened. 
Because of her personal circumstances, she was concerned about the threat of being in 
overdraft and paying additional charges. She asked HSBC to ensure her direct debits and 
regular commitments were cancelled, as she was worried she wouldnt be able to use her 
incoming payments  including child benefit, universal credit and personal independence 
payments  which she needed for everyday living costs.
A week later, Miss H went back to her branch as shed not received anything to confirm her 
fraud claim had been sorted. The branch manager confirmed her direct debits hadnt been 
cancelled. Miss H insisted the remaining funds in her account be given to her. She also 
provided HSBC with evidence of bills she was currently unable to repay.
Another week went by. Miss H went back to the bank. She was increasingly upset and 
concerned that things hadnt yet been sorted. The situation within the branch deteriorated 
and the branch staff called the police to try and calm Miss H down. Miss H felt humiliated 
and concerned about the impact this was having on her young children, who were with her.
On 13 September HSBC refunded £3,710 to Miss Hs account. In October they accepted 
theyd not provided a response to her complaint within timescales and paid £50 into her 
current account.
Miss H didnt believe this was sufficient and brought her complaint to the ombudsman 
service. She wanted HSBC to reimburse her travel costs for three trips to her branch; 
childcare costs for the first two visits; parking and petrol costs; as well as bills shed been 
unable to repay including a parking ticket, her mobile phone bill and Council Tax 
commitments.
Our investigator reviewed what happened and sympathised with Miss H. However she 
understood why HSBC, to protect its branch staff, felt they had no option but to call the 
police to branch. She also didnt believe the unpaid bills were caused by the fraud on 
Miss Hs account. She also noted HSBC hadnt reimbursed Miss H in line with agreed 
timescales. She asked them to pay her a further £300 in compensation along with 8% simple 
interest for the time Miss H had been without funds.
HSBC agreed with this outcome. Miss H didnt. She continued to feel her expenses should 
be paid. Shes asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Hs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Miss Hs case.
Nobody disputes Miss H didnt authorise the two transfers and three payments. HSBC 
accepts Miss H should be refunded but didnt, in fact, refund her until 13 September. This 
was considerably longer than it should have taken HSBC. HSBC accept that to all intents 
and purposes any refund should be made immediately. Our investigator believed this 
merited additional compensation and asked them to pay Miss H £300. They agreed to do 
this.
I agree with our investigator that £300 compensation seems fair and reasonable for the 
problems Miss H had in getting her fraud issue sorted. 
Ive gone on to consider the issues Miss H raised about what happened as well as why her 
expenses were not repaid.
Firstly I completely appreciate how upset Miss H has been at what happened. I have taken 
this into account.
Im aware Miss Hs direct debits and regular payments werent suspended as she requested. 
However I believe this would have caused potentially more issues with her having to repay 
those she owed money. I dont think HSBC acted unfairly here although they could have 
explained to her better why this wouldnt happen.
It was undoubtedly unfortunate HSBC felt they had no choice to call the police to branch to 
calm Miss H down. These are obviously difficult issues. I see Miss H felt she was being 
discriminated against as her health issues werent fully considered by HSBC. On the other 
hand HSBC will have a clear policy on what happens when they believe staff could be 
threatened or being shouted at. It is common for retail outlets of all types to have a low 
tolerance for these events even though they can sometimes be resolved in other ways. So 
whilst I accept Miss H and her children were very upset by these events, it wouldnt be fair to 
criticise HSBC for taking these steps.I have looked at Miss Hs expenses. Like our investigator, I wont be asking the bills for non-
payment to be paid by HSBC. The Council Tax bill is not in Miss Hs name, and whilst I dont 
dispute shes paying this on her parents behalf, arrears had already built up before the fraud 
on Miss Hs HSBC account. The phone bill also pre-dates the fraud.
Miss H had also received the penalty charge notice before the fraud took place. Miss H 
hadnt paid this by 24 August although I believe she could have taken action to do so.
I know Miss H believed her phone had been compromised and ended up leaving this at her 
branch. I do find that action surprising but its that which led her to having to buy a 
replacement phone. Im not sure why HSBC should have to bear those costs.
And finally Ive looked at the costs of childcare, parking and petrol during the period Miss H 
felt she had no choice but to attend her branch. I dont dispute Miss H had additional costs, 
although there is at least one HSBC branch closer to her than the one she attended. She 
was also  certainly for the first visit  with her mother. I know Miss H lives with her parents. I 
believe its more than likely Miss H chose to do other things as well as visit her bank branch 
during those trips. I dont think overall it would be fair to ask HSBC to pay for those aspects.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that the compensation HSBC has already paid (£15 on 28 September; £3,710 
refunded on 3 October; and £50 on 21 October) is inadequate. I believe a further £300 is fair 
and reasonable. As well as compensating Miss H for the delay in getting her money 
refunded, this also covers any additional costs in going to the HSBC branch she chose to 
attend.
Miss H  and her two children whose savings accounts were robbed to pay for the 
payments out of Miss Hs current account  were without funds for nearly three weeks. 8% 
simple interest should be paid to her for being without funds for that short period.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc:
To pay £300 compensation to Miss H; and
Add 8% simple interest to the amount defrauded for the period 24 August to 
13 September 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman