DRN-2040217
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim 
under her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
Ms As car, which has a keyless entry system, was stolen from outside her home in 
December 2018. She reported the theft to both LV and the police. 
Based on the information Ms A gave to the police shortly after the theft occurred, they 
recorded the incident as {Ms A} said that she pulled up at her home address and got out of 
the vehicle and left the engine running to move some bins out of the way. She said while she 
was doing this two vehicles pulled up and a male got out, jumped into her vehicle and drove 
it away. She did however have the keys with her so we were hoping that the vehicle would 
not be able to get very far without stopping but this was not the case.
But, when Ms A reported this to LV, they recorded that she was parked on her driveway and 
as she went to get into the car someone came up behind her, pushed her out of the way, got 
into the vehicle and drove off. Two other cars then followed {her} car as it drove away.
Ms A provided LV with a witness statement from her neighbour, which confirmed her version 
of events. But the police report records Ms A told them there were no witnesses. Because of 
the inconsistencies, and because the police had recorded Ms A had left her car unattended 
with the engine running, LV declined the claim. But they did say they would reconsider the 
claim if there was any evidence supporting Ms As version of events.
Ms A has complained that the police didnt record details of the incident accurately, and LV 
havent considered her version of events. Shes also unhappy that LV automatically renewed 
the insurance on the stolen car. LV didnt change their view, so Ms A brought her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. To resolve her complaint Ms A would 
like LV to pay out on her claim and pay her compensation for the stress theyve caused her.
Our investigator said that, while Ms A said the police report was inaccurate, he didnt think 
LV had done anything wrong by relying upon the information they were provided. He also 
said that, according to a key analysts report, Ms As car needed a key fob to start it, but it 
would continue to run without the fob being in the car until the car was stopped.  
So he thought LV had acted reasonably by declining the claim because Ms As car was 
stolen while it was unattended with the engine running. And he didnt think that the fact that 
Ms As car received parking fines, or the fact that her bank cards (which were in the car at 
the time of the theft) were used after the theft, made any difference to LVs decision. This 
was because these facts had no bearing on the circumstances of the actual theft itself.
The investigator also said that LV shouldnt have renewed Ms As policy because her car 
was never recovered. LV had refunded all of the premiums taken since the car was stolen 
and cancelled the policy from the date of the theft. Theyd also paid £50 compensation to Ms 
A for this error. The investigator thought this was fair and reasonable and didnt think LV 
needed to do anything more.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator. She thinks the investigator reached a grossly unfair 
view by agreeing with the police report and not fully considering her version of events. She 
asked if the investigator fully investigated the circumstances of the police report and said 
that a visit to the scene would help prove the police statement was incorrect  there are no 
bins that can be moved on site. Ms A has asked that we reinvestigate her complaint with 
focus on finding credible evidence to disprove or corroborate my version of events. So this 
matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain my role, and the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Were 
only able to consider the service provided by regulated financial businesses, so we cant 
investigate how the police have dealt with this matter. If Ms A is unhappy about the way the 
police recorded the incident, this is something she needs to raise with the police and 
possibly the Independent Office for Police Conduct.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an 
alternative to the courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We 
dont place more weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and 
weigh up all the information were given. But its not our role to find evidence to prove or 
disprove an argument that either side is putting forward. We base out outcomes on the 
evidence provided.
And its not my role to re-underwrite the claim and decide what happened and/or which 
version of events is correct. My role is to consider if LV reached a fair decision based on the 
evidence in front of them at the time.
Id like to start by recognising the upset this has caused Ms A. Her car was stolen, and this 
theft would undoubtedly cause her distress and inconvenience. But for me to agree that LV 
should pay the claim and compensate Ms A, Id need to be satisfied that the circumstances 
of the theft clearly fell within the terms of Ms As policy. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ms As motor insurance policy covers her with LV for the theft of her vehicle. But there are 
exceptions to the policy where LV wont pay out. And one of these exceptions is where the 
engine has been left running when unattended.
Ive seen a copy of the report from the forensic analyst specialising in vehicle keys. This 
confirmed Ms As car was fitted with proximity key fobs, and that Ms A was still in possession 
of both fobs. These could be used to unlock/lock the car and to start the engine. But, once 
the engine was started, if the fob was taken out of the car it could then be driven until the 
engine was turned off. A fob would be needed to restart the engine, but a blank fob could be 
programmed from the car itself.
This report isnt conclusive as to what happened. If Ms A was near enough to the car, it 
couldve been started by the thief. But the engine could also have been running, and Ms A 
stepped out of the car with the key fob in her possession, when the car was stolen. There are inconsistencies in the reports given to the police and LV. Ms A told LV that the car 
was stolen when she went to get into it. So, if Ms A was near enough, the car couldve been 
started by the thief. But the police report says Ms A left the car unattended with the engine 
running, something thats also possible while she was in possession of the key fobs. 
Ive also seen a copy of a letter Ms As solicitors sent to LV. This says that Ms A maintains 
she was pushed out of the car, the cars engine was not running but she had the car keys in 
her pocket. For this to be the case then the thief mustve got into the car (presumably the 
passenger side) in order to push Ms A out of it. Then they wouldve had to climb into the 
drivers seat before being able to take the car.
This is a third version of events thats not consistent with either what LV or the police have 
recorded. Facts can become hazy over time, especially with a traumatic event such as the 
theft of a car. So Id expect there may be some slight inconsistency. What I wouldnt expect 
was three completely different versions of events.
Ms A made her first report to the police, not to LV or her solicitors. And the police report said 
the engine was running and the car left unattended. Given all of the circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on this first reported version of events and settle the 
claim on that basis. 
According to Ms As solicitor, Ms A believes the police have mixed up her report with that of 
someone else. And, if Ms A says the police report is wrong, then she shouldve contacted 
them to correct this. I wouldnt expect LV to ignore the police report because it contradicts 
what Ms A had told them. But I do think that LV agreeing to reconsider the claim in light of 
any further evidence that supports a different version of events is reasonable.
I also think that LV refunding the premiums taken in error and paying Ms A £50 by way of an 
apology for this is reasonable. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms As complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman