DRN-4311699
The complaint
Mr M complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr M made a claim under his home emergency policy with Advantage 
after an escape of water caused damage to his kitchen.
Advantage instructed a claims management agent to deal with the claim. It told Mr M the 
agent would call him within 48 hours to talk through next steps. The agent emailed Mr M the 
following day to let him know it had appointed a surveyor, who would contact him shortly. 
However, Mr M says he wasnt contacted, and he wasnt provided with heaters to dry out the 
area as Advantage said he would be. Mr M emailed Advantage and the agent several times 
and made a number of attempts to contact them on the phone. 
The surveyor visited Mr Ms property over a month after the incident. There was a delay in 
the completion of the surveyors report. Almost two months after the incident Mr M was 
offered the option of taking a cash settlement of £1,877 (less the policy excess) or having 
the work carried out by Advantages approved contractors.
Mr M didnt think Advantages cash settlement offer was enough to return the kitchen to the 
condition it was prior to the incident. He said that because Advantage hadnt provided 
heaters to dry the floor and units out, the kitchen now required all base units to be replaced 
and the floor lifted and renewed. The kitchen range had been discontinued and he didnt 
think Advantages offer would be enough to install a completely different kitchen range for 
the base units and get the floor replaced. 
Advantage increased its cash settlement offer to £4,617 (less the excess), which it said 
included a 50% contribution towards undamaged items. It also offered him £100 to 
compensate him for delays in progressing his claim. 
Mr M didnt think Advantages revised offer was sufficient to cover the damage and 
inconvenience hed experienced. 
Our investigator thought it was fair for Advantage to cover 50% of the costs of the 
undamaged kitchen items. But she didnt think it was fair for Advantage to limit its cash 
settlement offer to what it would have cost it to use its own supplier. She recommended that 
Advantage either appoint one of its own suppliers to carry out repairs or base its settlement 
on reasonable costs of Mr M arranging the for the work to be carried out himself. She also 
recommended that Advantage increase its offer of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience from £100 to £400.
Advantage acknowledged receiving our investigators outcome, but it hasnt said whether or 
not it accepts our investigators recommendation regarding the settlement of the claim. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Matching sets
The policys terms and conditions say:
Matching sets, suites and carpets
An individual item thats part of a matching set of items or suite of furniture, sanitary ware or 
other bathroom fittings is classed as a single item. Your insurer will pay you for individual 
damaged items but not for undamaged companion pieces.
If floor coverings are damaged beyond repair your insurer will only replace the covering 
thats damaged, not any undamaged floor coverings in other rooms.
From what I can see, Advantages initial settlement offer didnt cover the cost of replacing 
undamaged kitchen items. However, it later agreed to contribute 50% towards undamaged 
kitchen items and included an amount for this in its revised settlement offer. 
I appreciate Mr M believes Advantage should cover the cost of a whole new kitchen because 
of the poor customer service hes received and the delay in getting the matter resolved. 
However, the terms of the policy dont entitle Mr M to a whole new kitchen. Strictly speaking, 
he is only entitled to have the damaged items replaced. I dont have sufficient evidence to 
conclude that it wouldnt have been necessary to replace any of the matching units if 
Advantage had progressed the claim more quickly. So, I think its fair for Advantage to 
contribute 50% towards the cost of replacing undamaged items that form part of a set with 
damaged items.
Cash settlement
The policys terms and conditions set out how Advantage will settle claims. They say:
Your insurer may repair, reinstate or replace your damaged property. If your insurer cant 
replace or repair your property they may pay for the loss or damage in cash or in a cash 
alternative (including vouchers and/or store cards).
Where your insurer can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but then 
agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not be more than the 
amount they would have paid their preferred supplier.
I can see that Advantage gave Mr M the option of having the work completed by one of its 
approved contractors when it made its initial settlement offer. However, it doesnt appear to 
have given Mr M this option when it made its revised settlement offer which included 50% 
towards undamaged items. The cash settlement offer of £4,617 (less the policy excess) appears to be based on what it 
would cost Advantage if the work was completed by its own contractors. 
The rate an insurer pays its approved contractors tend to be below market rates. This means 
Advantages cash settlement offer is unlikely to be sufficient to cover the cost of Mr M getting 
the work completed by his own contractors. The terms of the policy only allow Advantage to 
limit the settlement to its own costs if it can offer a repair or replacement through a preferred 
supplier. So, I think it would only be fair for Advantage to limit the settlement to its own costs 
if Mr M insists on a cash settlement rather than allowing Advantage to arrange for the work 
to be done.
I think it would be fair for Advantage to offer Mr M the option of having repairs completed by 
its approved suppliers, with Mr M paying 50% towards the cost of undamaged matching 
items. Alternatively, if Advantage decides to make a cash settlement, then it should base this 
on Mr Ms reasonable costs of getting the work carried out himself, including a 50% 
contribution to undamaged matching items.
Mr M has provided some estimates for replacing his kitchen, which may help Advantage with 
assessing reasonable costs if it decides to settle the claim by cash. I note there are some 
items on Mr Ms quotes that dont appear to be covered by the claim. To be clear, Advantage 
is only required to pay reasonable costs for repairing or replacing damaged items and 50% 
towards the costs of undamaged items forming part of a set with these. 
If Advantage offers Mr M the option of work being carried out by its own suppliers and Mr M 
decides to take a cash settlement, then it would be fair for Advantage to limit this to what it 
would have cost it if it had paid its preferred supplier. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mr M says Advantage failed to get in contact and didnt arrange for heaters to dry things out. 
He and his wife were left walking on a soaking wet floor, with the kitchen continuing to 
deteriorate. Mr M says both he and his wife have asthma. Water lying on the floor created a 
damaging atmosphere for their breathing and mould forming behind the units made things 
worse. He says the stress of dealing with Advantage was extensive and unnecessary. 
From what Ive seen, Advantage didnt arrange for a surveyor to visit Mr Ms property until 
over a month after he made the claim. When Mr M chased Advantage, it said it was unable 
to locate his claim. There was a further delay in completing the surveyors report and 
Advantage making its settlement offer. This was no doubt frustrating for Mr M who was left 
with a kitchen which was in a poor condition.
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, Advantage acknowledged failings in its service and a 
delay in progression of his claim. It offered Mr M £100 compensation for this. However, it 
accepted our investigators recommendation to increase this to £400. I appreciate Mr M 
doesnt think this is enough and I understand his frustration about the length of time hes 
been left with a damaged kitchen. However, he has still had use of his kitchen, despite the 
damage. So, I think £400 fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced 
as a result of Advantages poor communication and delays in progressing the claim.
 
Putting things right
Advantage should:Offer Mr M the option of having the work carried out by its approved contractors, with 
Mr M paying 50% towards the cost of replacing undamaged items forming part of a 
matching set with damaged items, or
Make a cash settlement offer which reflects fair and reasonable costs to allow Mr M 
to get the work carried out himself. Fair and reasonable costs being a settlement 
based on market rates for the work to be done, as opposed to any discounted rate 
Advantage may have received using its preferred contractors. The settlement should 
include 50% towards the cost of replacing undamaged items which form part of a 
matching set with damaged items.
Pay Mr M a total of £400 for distress and inconvenience (including the £100 it offered 
in response to his complaint).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman