DRN-3941231
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his motor insurance claim 
unfairly.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr D made a claim on his motor insurance policy and his car was declared a 
total loss. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the customer service he received throughout the claim or the way it 
was settled. So, he asked Admiral to put things right. Admiral treated Mr Ds concerns as a 
complaint and sent him a cheque for £570. They explained this amount consisted of £240 
compensation and £330 for 22 days loss of use, at a rate of £15 a day. They didnt uphold 
his complaint about his cars valuation, as they said they valued it fairly at £4,910. However, 
they did acknowledge some delays and poor customer service. I wont list all the issues 
here, but they include failing to send Mr D a copy of the repairs estimate and providing a 
courtesy car that was in a poor condition. 
Mr D then returned Admirals compensation cheque and raised a complaint with our service. 
He highlighted the failings Admiral had accepted in their final response and said the 
compensation amount should be increased. He also explained that his cars valuation should 
be more than he was offered, as one of Admirals agents said it was worth over £6,000.
An investigator at our service considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the 
compensation payment was fair. And he didnt see any grounds for concluding the market 
value should be increased, as Admirals offer fell within the range suggested by the motor 
trade guides. Mr D didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be escalated. 
Prior to writing this decision, I noticed that Admirals settlement offer had been based on only 
one valuation from the motor trade guides. I therefore shared three additional valuations with 
Admiral and asked them if this changed their position. In response, they said they'd increase 
their settlement offer based on the average value suggested by the four guides. As this 
amount is £5,619.75, they therefore agreed to pay Mr D a further £709.75 to make up the 
difference in values.
I then shared Admirals increased settlement offer with Mr D and said that I thought it was 
fair. In response, Mr D said Admiral should increase their new valuation in line with inflation. 
However, he was glad to see they had offered to add 8% simple interest to the additional 
amount. He also highlighted the impact of Admirals customer service failings and said he 
may have arranged for his car to have been repaired if Admiral had acted differently.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr D and Admiral that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety. Having done so, Im satisfied Admiral have now 
offered Mr D a fair and reasonable settlement and Ill explain why.
Admiral declared Mr Ds car a total loss based on the findings of their repair agent and an 
independent assessor. Im satisfied this was a reasonable decision as both experts 
concluded the repairs were uneconomical. I appreciate Mr D is upset Admiral declined his 
request to contribute £500 towards the cost of the repairs. However, as the repair bill could 
have reasonably increased once the work started I dont think this decision was unfair. 
Mr D has said he may have arranged for his car to be repaired independently if Admiral had 
provided him with a copy of the repairs estimate. I can see Mr D requested this information 
on the same day as he offered to make a contribution towards the cost of the repairs. 
Unfortunately, this request wasnt responded to, and Mr D purchased a replacement car a 
few weeks later. I agree Admiral let Mr D down in this respect, but by including this issue in 
their compensation offer, Im satisfied it has been fairly acknowledged. Im also mindful that 
there are a number of different factors that could have reasonably impacted Mr Ds decision 
here. These include the cost of the repairs, his cars salvage value and the availability of his 
local repairer. So, even if the repairs estimate had been promptly provided, its not 
guaranteed Mr D would have done anything differently.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy terms here 
define market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is 
based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
We think it is reasonable for insurers to rely on motor trade guides, as their values are based 
on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The guides 
also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into consideration including any 
extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can have 
a big impact on its value.
Admiral initially calculated a market value for Mr Ds car, based on one motor trade guide, 
and the opinion of an independent assessor who also checked the same guide. We would 
usually expect an insurer to consult a few different motor trade guides, and then offer a value 
that falls within the suggested range. Admiral technically did that here as their offer falls 
within the range Ive identified and detailed below. However, as they only considered one 
guide which gave the lowest suggested value, Im satisfied it was right for Admiral to 
reconsider their offer.
The four motor trade guides valued Mr Ds car as follows: £4,910, £5,392, £5,882, and 
£6,295. Insurers arent generally required to offer the highest value suggested by the motor 
trade guides, and our service doesnt have a preferred guide which we think is the most 
reliable. Im also satisfied there isnt any specific circumstances or additional evidence which 
suggests Admiral should reasonably favour the highest valuation here. So, by now relying on 
the average value (£5,619.75) and applying 8% simple interest to the additional settlement 
amount (£709.75), Im satisfied this is fair.
Im aware Mr D feels Admiral should honour a valuation estimate that was given to him by 
their repair agent. However, as this person wasnt instructed to make an offer to him, I 
respectfully disagree. I also dont think Admiral should reasonably increase their new offer 
due to inflation as Mr D was able to purchase a replacement car last year.Admiral have agreed to pay Mr D £330 as they've said they could have reasonably paid him 
the initial claim settlement 22 days earlier. Mr D has explained that during this time, he 
shared a car with a friend who lived five miles away, so travelling was inconvenient. Based 
on what Mr D has said about his circumstances, I think this amount is fair and reasonable.
Admiral have also offered Mr D £240 compensation to address the poor condition of the 
courtesy car they provided and the customer service failings they detailed in their final 
response. Having carefully considered everything that happened and the impact of each 
issue Im also satisfied this amount is fair. So, I dont direct Admiral to increase it. 
Putting things right
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mr D £709.75 more and add 8% simple interest per year to this amount from the 
date of the interim payment to the date of settlement.*
Reissue the £570 compensation/ loss of use payment as detailed above.
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that they are required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr D how much they have 
taken off. They should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman