DRN-3867327
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection income policy in 2000.
What happened
The PPI policy was set up in 2000, around the same time as Mr and Mrs A were arranging 
their mortgage. It provided cover equally for both Mr and Mrs A. Originally it was set up to 
provide unemployment cover only which was free of charge for the first 12 months.
Co-op partly upheld the complaint. It said that the unemployment element of the cover was 
unsuitable for Mr A as a self-employed person and therefore offered to refund the premiums 
for the unemployment cover for Mr A only.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this month in which I explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further evidence or comments. Mr 
and Mrs A responded with some further points. Co-op did not provide any further 
submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained in my provisional decision, Im only looking at how the policy was sold, rather 
than how the policy was managed after that point.
Co-op doesnt have a copy of the PPI application form. It puts this down to the passage of 
time but says that one must have been completed because the insurer would not have been 
able to set the policy up without one. However, the available evidence contradicts that.
Co-op says that Mr and Mrs As election to have PPI is recorded on the mortgage application 
form. However, the form they are referring to is an earlier form for a mortgage on the 
purchase of a house that fell through. On the mortgage application form for the house they 
actually went on to buy (and which they still live in), they both signed to decline PPI on 14 
December 1999.
On 28 February 2000 Co-op sent Mr and Mrs A a letter informing them they were entitled to 
free unemployment cover for 12 months. It requested they compete the enclosed PPI 
application form to enable the documents to be issued. Mr and Mrs A never returned the 
form.
On 13 March 2000 Co-op wrote to them again confirming that it had not received the PPI 
application form. But it then went on to say, that being the case, it assumed they required the 
free unemployment cover only. It had therefore set up the cover to be 50/50 for Mr and Mrs 
A with the inception date being the start date of the mortgage. 
Therefore, I disagree with Co-ops view that it was Mr and Mrs As choice to take out PPI. It 
is evident that the policy was set up without the filling in of an application form and that Mr 
and Mrs A didnt provide their consent to having the policy. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs A saying they feel the policy was imposed upon them. As such, 
its reasonable that they sought to make the best use of it when the need arose. So Im not 
persuaded that the later amendment of the policy or the successful claim by Mr A indicates 
that they wanted the policy all along or that they originally agreed to buy it. If the PPI hadnt 
been set up without any input from Mr and Mrs A, they wouldnt have had a policy to amend. 
As it was, they were just making the best of it.
I do have some other concerns about whether Co-op provided enough information about the 
policy. Because theres an issue around Mr As eligibility based on him not paying class 1 or 
class 2 national insurance contributions which would have been of interest to Mr and Mrs A. 
However, Im satisfied that the failure to make it clear that the policy was optional is a 
sufficient ground in itself to uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Co-op should put Mr and Mrs A in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. So Co-op should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8%.
Co-op can take off the value of Mr As successful claim from the amount it owes 
them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Co-op to take off tax from this interest. Co-op must give 
Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and require The Co-operative Bank 
Plc to pay fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman