DRN-3806779
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) hasnt refunded him the money he lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) purchase scam.
Mr S is making his complaint with the assistance of a representative. To make my decision 
easier to read, I refer only to Mr S. I do this even where it was his representative rather than 
Mr S who said or provided something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mr S 
fell victim to a purchase scam. 
In September 2021, Mr S was looking to purchase a laptop in preparation for his return to 
university. Mr S found one for sale online through a well-known social media website. Mr S 
says the seller gained his trust and showed photos of the laptop. The seller also explained 
that they had bought the laptop during lockdown for their staff, but as people were returning 
to the office they werent needed. The seller advised that all business transactions went 
through their wifes account. Mr S, on 15 September 2021, made a bank transfer of £750 for 
the purchase of the laptop with it arranged that it would be delivered. 
Ultimately the laptop never arrived, and Mr S realised he had been scammed. Mr S 
contacted Starling to report the matter on 22 September 2021 and to see whether his funds 
could be recovered. 
Starling contacted the receiving bank (the bank where Mr S paid his funds to) but was 
unable to recover any funds. Starling also considered whether Mr S was due a refund of the 
monies he had lost. Starling considered the case under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code). This is a voluntary code which Starling is a signatory of. The 
CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams 
like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Starling says one of the exceptions in the CRM Code applies, in that it believes Mr S didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person the Customer was 
expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom they transacted was legitimate. So Starling didnt reimburse Mr S for his 
loss.
Mr S, unhappy with Starlings response, brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint and concluded that Starling had acted fairly and 
reasonably in choosing to decline reimbursement.
In short, they agreed that Mr S had acted without a reasonable basis for belief when making 
the payments. And given the value of the payment they didnt consider, under the 
CRM Code, that Starling were required to display an effective warning as part of the 
payment process. So our Investigator agreed that Starling had fairly declined Mr Ss claim 
under the CRM Code.
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not upholding his complaint. I know hes been the
victim of a scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on
him. But I dont believe Starling has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr S authorised the payment that is the subject of this
complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by a fraudster. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations
2017, he would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for Starling to establish 
that one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply.
Under the CRM Code, a Sending Firm (in this case Starling) may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, I think Starling has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Mr S under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. In order to determine whether this exception to reimbursement applies, I must ask if he 
made the payment he did whilst having a reasonable basis for belief that all was genuine. 
Having carefully reviewed everything Im afraid I dont find thats the case. Ill explain why.
I think the key issue at hand here is the price Mr S was paying for the laptop. And whether 
the price was too good to be true and to such an extent that it should have given Mr S 
cause for concern that it might not be a legitimate sale or might not even exist. 
In considering this aspect, I have also taken into account all the testimony and submissions 
provided by Mr S which includes prices that various laptops are being sold for. 
The price of the laptop Mr S was purchasing, was for £750. And the laptop was described in 
essence as being nearly brand new and that had not been used. Our Investigator carried out 
research on the make and model of the laptop. And in doing so they also took into account a 
degree of various specifications alongside older models, refurbished models and second-
hand models. 
Having reviewed this element, I agree that the price Mr S thought he was purchasing the 
laptop for was not just lower, but significantly lower than what it typically cost. By all 
accounts it was undervalue by several hundred pounds. The same model of laptop is still 
currently being sold brand new for around £2,000  and second hand / refurbished older 
models are still priced at around £1,000. A very quick internet search on the model, would 
have shown the average retail price. And here the seller was willing to sell the laptop for just 
over a third of its retail value.
As Ive said above, the price Mr S thought he was paying for the laptop is an important factor 
here, as I find it should have given Mr S a serious cause for concern that it may not have 
been a legitimate sale or seller. I dont think the reason Mr S was provided with regarding 
why the laptop was being sold and for £750 was plausible either and warranted further 
suspicion that things might not be right. The seller advised that they had bought the laptop 
during lockdown for their staff but as people were returning to the office the laptops werent 
needed. Even if I factor in that companies can buy products such as laptops in bulk, I still 
think a legitimate seller wouldnt have sold a brand-new laptop for well under the retail value 
and for less than second hand / refurbished models were being sold at. 
I think the price was simply too good to be true from the outset and to such an extent that it 
ought to have raised more than a significant doubt on Mr Ss part. It doesnt appear Mr S 
asked any further questions around the price being what it was and seemingly took the price, 
and the initial reason as to why the laptop was being sold, at face value. Whereas the value 
and the reasons why the laptop was being sold and at the price it was, should have led to a 
greater degree of checking and suspicion on Mr Ss part. I also find the sellers reason for the 
bank account Mr S had to pay was dubious. Mr S was not paying into an account name held 
by the supposed seller. And the seller was supposedly selling laptops that were out of the 
box new and meant for staff  but was asking payment to go into his wifes account. I think 
this should have also led to more suspicion that things didnt seem right. 
Overall, the price the laptop was being sold for was a major red flag that should have given 
Mr S more than a cause for concern. To my mind it is reasonable to suggest that this should 
have led to Mr S questioning the legitimacy of the sale / seller, and ought to have led to a 
greater degree of checking on Mr Ss part. I think the price considerably stood out as being 
too good to be true, and alongside the reasons it was being sold, it should have led Mr S to  
have concerns that all wasnt as it seemed. The price was too good to be true which meant 
that he either, quite simply, didnt purchase the laptop or at the very least until he had 
physically seen it to confirm its existence  such was the risk.  Should Starling have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Starling engage in the 
monitoring of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr S was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Starling 
wouldve had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because the 
payment wouldnt have appeared out of character or unusual. The payment wasnt 
particularly large or remarkable. So I dont think the CRM Code required that Starling display 
an effective warning as part of the payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had 
any grounds for intervening to question the payment with Mr S before allowing it to be 
processed.
Recovery of funds
I have also considered whether Starling did all it could to try and recover the money Mr S 
lost. Starling was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask the Receiving 
Firm to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to make enquiries 
quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Starling did 
act quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as 
quickly as possible. While Mr S, after realising he was the victim of a scam, reported the 
matter promptly  it was several days after he had made the payment. And unfortunately, no 
funds remained that could be recovered, so there was nothing more Starling could do.
Im sorry Mr S lost his money in this way, and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling 
and why he thinks this money should be returned. But for the reasons explained, I dont find 
that he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. So I consider it 
was fair and reasonable for Starling to decline to reimburse him for his losses under the 
CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman