DRN-2228555
The complaint  
Mr L has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 September 2020. The background 
and circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out 
in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision here.
Mr L, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in February 2019. I
understand Alexander David didnt provide any material response to the complaint. The
representative subsequently referred it to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. She asked Alexander David for its files
and to provide any evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, she
received no response. The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence
that had been presented.
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. Mr L
had said he was 'cold called' by representatives of St Pauls Marketing and offered a pension
review, which he accepted.
Mr L had a free standing additional voluntary contribution plan (FSAVC). The selected
retirement age on it was 60 and it was invested in managed funds. Mr L said he was told
that Just Loan Group investment was likely to give a better rate of return than his FSAVC.
St Pauls Marketing sent a Letter of authority to the FSAVC provider requesting policy details
for it on 14 March 2016. St Pauls Marketing then sent a pension summary report to Mr L on
20 April 2016. This provided information about how Mr Ls FSAVC had performed for the
previous three years. It also made Mr L aware of the Just Loan investments providing a fixed
return of 8.75%.
An application to open a SIPP was signed on 26 May 2016. And £23,234 was transferred to
it from the FSAVC in June 2016. A discretionary managed account was opened and
£22,424 of the transfer value invested Just Loan debentures.
The investigator noted that the SIPP provider had confirmed that it was St Pauls Marketing
who were the introducing firm. She thought it was clear that St Pauls Marketing were
involved in the transfer and the investment. And she thought the evidence suggested it had
made a personal recommendation to Mr L. Mr L had said that St Pauls Marketing had
reviewed his pension plan with the Just Loans investment and said the Just Loans
investment was performing much better. St Pauls Marketing had requested a signed Letter
of Authority from Mr L to gather ceding scheme information from Mr Ls exiting pension
provider in the month before the transfer. It had also asked Mr L to contact their offices to
discuss the investment and sent a pension summary report to him dated 20 April 2016.
The investigator thought it was clear that St Pauls Marketing had reviewed and compared
the returns of the two schemes. She thought such a comparison was always likely to show
that one investment was 'better' than the other, with the inference being that Mr L should
switch. She thought it unlikely a discussion about the two investments would have taken
place without St Pauls Marketing not recommending that the 'better' performing one, in this
case Just Loans, be taken out.
The investigator said according to Mr L this is what had happened. She thought the
comparison of the two prospective investments was specific to Mr Ls plans because it
involved looking at the performance of his plan in relation to his objective of achieving higher
returns. So she thought St Pauls Marketing had made a personal recommendation to Mr L
The investigator said that at the time of the transfer Mr L was very close to the selected
retirement age for his FSAVC. So investing into something that had such a high risk was not
in Mr Ls best interest as he would have wanted to access the funds sooner rather than later.
She said having had discussions with Mr L about his complaint she wasnt convinced that he
would have the knowledge or expertise to arrange the pension transfer and then proceed to
invest in these investments himself.
The investigator said there was no evidence to suggest that Mr L had a great deal of
investment experience. He had no other investments. And his FSAVC was held with a 
wellknown pension provider with an established track record.
The Just Loans investment, in both ordinary shares and debentures, was all issued by a
single company which she understood was concerned entirely with peer to peer lending and
had only been incorporated since December 2014. So it was a new company in a fledgling
industry, and Mr Ls entire retirement provision was invested in it. She said this magnified the
degree of risk beyond what M Ls circumstances suggested he could take. The investigators
opinion was that Mr L wouldnt have been willing to take that amount of investment risk as he
was close to his retirement date and the Just Loans investment was speculative and
unsuitable.
The investigator sent her assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. She wrote to both parties on 5 June 2020 saying that the complaint
would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a final decision. No further
evidence or arguments were provided.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Ls original complaint or to the investigators requests
for information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the
investigators assessment. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what
happened at the time of the transfer and investment.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Ls recollections of
events. Alexander David/St Pauls hasnt disputed what Mr L said in his complaint to it, or
what the investigator said in her assessment.
Im also mindful that this is one of a number of complaints we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same investments.
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts. But Ive noted that what Mr L hassaid about St Pauls role is consistent with what other complainants have described and the
limited documentation that is available. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking
everything into account, I have found it credible.
Mr L completed a complaint form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander David. In the
complaint form Mr L said he was initially contacted via a cold call from St Pauls Marketing
offering a pension review. He said he was told that if he transferred his pension funds into a
SIPP and into their recommended investment he was guaranteed a better investment return.
He said he was told the investment involved properties and was a "a dead cert"; he was
guaranteed to make money. Therefore he transferred his pension into the SIPP and the
money was invested for him.
Mr L said he was over exposed to the high-risk investment which was unsuitable for him. He
said the advice wasnt provided in writing and so he was unable to fully comprehend the
implications of the transfer and investment. He said risk wasnt discussed and if he had
known it was high risk he wouldnt have agreed to the transfer. He said he was a low risk
investor and wasnt in a position to risk losing the pension.
The Pension Summary report showed how Mr Ls existing pension had performed over the
previous three years, provided details about its features and benefits and compared it to the
returns offered by the proposed investment of a fixed rate of return of 8.75 over 5 years.
Im satisfied given the documentation that has been provided from the time that St Pauls
initiated the investment in the debenture. It was aware of where the investment was going to
be made through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr L has said St Pauls advised him to use his
pension to invest in the debentures, the investigator said she thought it likely St Pauls had
recommended the investment and it wasnt suitable for him. And the firm hasnt disputed
this. In all the circumstances and on the balance of the evidence available, I think its more
likely than not that advice was given.
St Pauls Marketing was the promoter for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited
evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the
investment (as well as recommending it). Mr L has described its involvement and the
documentation that is available is consistent with what he has said.
These debentures were a non-readily realisable security. The promotional material I have
seen referred to debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market for them even
after listing, and said that investors might need to hold them to redemption. COBS 10
required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Ls knowledge and experience in the
investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as
to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate.
Mr L had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of making investments of
this nature. The debentures were high risk and speculative and clearly not appropriate for
Mr L given his background, knowledge and circumstances.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection. Its Principles for Business are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations on the firms it authorises. These include Principle
6, that it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And
Principle 9, that it must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In my view switching a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number of different
factors to weigh up and consider. Mr L was an ordinary retail investor. He doesnt appear to
have had any particular experience or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex
and higher risk investments he was invested into. I think Mr L was entitled to rely on the firm
providing advice that was suitable to his circumstances. It was acting in its professionalcapacity and was obliged to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and to
act in Mr L interests.
Mr L has said he wanted a lower risk investment. I think it was clear that the debentures
werent suitable or appropriate for Mr L particularly given his proximity to retirement date and
this should have been clear to St Pauls. So I dont think St Pauls acted in Mr Ls interests.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised Mr L to transfer
and invest in the debentures or if it had told him they werent appropriate or suitable for him,
he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them. Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls
failures caused Mr L to transfer and invest in a product that he would otherwise not have
invested into. And Im satisfied its failures caused the losses that Mr L has claimed.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I intend to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr L
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ls
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr L fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ls investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Ls pension plan to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay
the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think M L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investmentinvestment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Ls 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused 
him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd  
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr L a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Ltd should take
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension
provider / administrator. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the debentures its value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay
it any amount he may receive from the debentures in the future. That undertaking must allow
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within
the plan on t date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12
to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is
that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the
investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point on.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable as Mr L hasnt got the opportunity to
close the SIPP if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities Ltd
cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr L an amount equal to five
years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation
calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr L has said he was a lower risk investor; and I think his circumstances and being close
to retirement date were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk.
Mr Ls existing plan was invested in medium risk investments. In all the circumstances, I
dont think Mr L would have transferred with suitable advice. But I think it s likely he would
have switched to lower risk funds if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly
how he would have invested but I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr L was willing and
able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, he 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ls risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would
reasonably put Mr L into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr L would have invested 50% in
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited to
his objective and risk attitude.I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to
consider.
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
Mr L said he hadnt been made aware of the transfer fee of £90.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
Putting things right
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L as set 
out in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman