DRN-2511640
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps daughter, Mrs K, complained to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited on
behalf of her parents about a Flexible Cash Release Plan (a type of equity release
lifetime mortgage).
What happened
In December 2020 I issued a decision setting out what we could  and couldnt  consider. In 
that I said we couldnt consider:
The fact there is an ERC on the mortgage, and the amount of the ERC.
The interest charged.
I said we could only consider the fact Aviva will charge the ERC if a part redemption is made 
now, and it wont freeze the interest or offer any other options.
As our investigator had already dealt with those points, saying whilst he was sensitive to 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances, he hadnt seen anything to indicate Aviva had done anything 
wrong, the case has now been passed back to me to decide that one point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I previously said, I cant consider the fact there is an ERC nor the size of it. All I can 
consider is whether Aviva would be acting inappropriately in charging the ERC if a part 
redemption is made to the mortgage now. I also cant consider the interest rate that was set 
nor the interest roll-up. All I can consider is whether there are grounds to order Aviva to 
freeze the interest or offer any other options.
Whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances and Im sorry to 
disappoint them, but there are no grounds for me to order Aviva to waive the ERC, freeze 
the interest or offer any other options.
The contract Mr and Mrs P entered into isnt designed to be repaid early, it is intended to run 
until the property is sold, with the rolled-up debt being repaid from the proceeds. As 
payments dont need to be made to the mortgage theres no current financial impact on 
Mr and Mrs P to that arrangement, which is as these contracts are intended to be. 
It may be Mrs K decides to end the contract early - whether by arranging a new equity 
release mortgage, or by some other means - to protect some equity in her parents property. 
Or Mrs K may choose to make a lump sum payment to reduce the amount owing, and thus 
reduce the interest due. But there are no grounds for me to order Aviva to waive money that 
is fairly due to it under the contract to assist her with either of those. Equally there are no 
grounds for me to order Aviva to freeze the interest, reduce the interest rate, or offer any 
other options to Mrs K. Aviva is following the contract Mr and Mrs P entered into and so it 
hasnt done anything wrong here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman