DRN-3658230
The complaint
Mr G has complained, on behalf of the estate of Mr L, about the addition of an account 
holder to the deceaseds partnership account. 
What happened
Mr G was appointed by the High Court in January 2021 as Special Administrator for the 
estate of Mr L. When Mr G contacted HSBC about the account as part of his investigation 
into Mr Ls financial affairs, he discovered that the names on the account had been changed, 
and an additional signatory added without his prior authorisation or knowledge. Mr G wrote 
to HSBC on 18 August 2021 to query why this had happened.
HSBC wrote to Mr G on 23 August 2021 to explain that this change had been initiated by a 
review of the account, but the amendment had now been reversed.
In September, Mr G wrote back to HSBC asking for a more detailed response about how a 
non-partners name was added to the partnerships account. HSBC apologised and 
explained that a member of their staff had amended the name in error. They confirmed the 
signatory list was not affected and that there had been no impact on the operation of the 
account.
Mr G remained unhappy and asked HSBC for details of who made the amendment and why 
the change was made as well as questioning their internal processes. HSBCs complaints 
department responded to Mr G at the beginning of November explaining they were unable to 
share the name of the individual who input the change.
Mr G was unhappy with this explanation, so he brought the complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter and explained that as the matter was now resolved, 
and the impact was minor, he didnt think HSBC needed to do anything further. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. Mr G would like a proper explanation of the events that led to an account holder 
being added to the account without any checks, consultation or due process taking place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to consider and resolve individual 
complaints but whatever the outcome of a complaint might be, it isnt our role to punish 
businesses. Thats the function of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
With that in mind, Ive considered whether the issue with the change of name on the account 
has been resolved and if there is any financial loss to the estate that needs to be remedied. 
HSBC have apologised for the error and I can see that they rectified the matter immediately 
on receiving correspondence from Mr G. The account was not in use at the time of the error 
and the signatory list was not amended, so the impact here was minimal. As a result, I wont 
be asking HSBC to take any further action.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration about the change of name and that he would like further 
information about HSBCs processes and how the error occurred. However, HSBC have 
explained it was caused by human error and theyve told us they are unable to provide any 
further detail. I agree that HSBC couldve handled the matter better however, even if they 
were able to provide further information, it would have no bearing on the outcome of the 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr L, to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman