DRN-2694576
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the service they received from Europ Assistance S.A. when 
they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were on holiday with members of their family. Mr N was taking part in an 
organised dive and became seriously ill. He was taken to a local island hospital for urgent 
and life-saving treatment. However, he needed to be moved to a different hospital with 
appropriate facilities to treat him. Mr N was transferred to the hospital and discharged a few 
days later following treatment. He was repatriated to the UK with a medical escort. 
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint and awarding £800 
compensation. I said that there were areas of the service that Mr and Mrs N received which 
could have been better and the consequences had a significant impact on them. In summary 
I said: 
EAS could have been more proactive about contacting the island hospital in a 
time sensitive situation when Mr N needed urgent care 
Whilst I could see that there were gaps in communication, I thought EAS had, 
overall, attempted to keep Mr Ns family updated
EAS could have taken the lead in getting information in relation to the dive in 
order to verify cover
There could have been better support given during Mr Ns discharge from 
hospital
There was a delay in confirming cover and I thought that EAS could have 
taken more pragmatic decisions in relation to aspects of the repatriation. 
Mr and Mrs N accepted my decision, subject to further information being provided by EAS 
which may change the situation. EAS accepted my findings but provided some further 
comments. So, I need to make my final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EAS has made it clear that they accept my substantive findings  they agree that there were 
elements of the case handling that were lacking and that more proactiveness at certain 
points could have improved the effectiveness of the overall emergency assistance provided. 
They said that they did not seek to alter the final compensation decision, but that they 
wanted to clarify the limited options available during the organisation of a complex and time-
sensitive repatriation. Their further comments expand on some of those challenges and 
provides more context for the repatriation decisions which were taken.  
However, I remain of the view that £800 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case taking into account the overall service Mr and Mrs N received. 
The further comments havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this case.
 
Putting things right
EAS needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs N £800 for the trouble and upset caused 
by poor service. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Europ Assistance S.A. to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman