DRN-3724443
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
complete enough affordability checks before approving his Safety Net facility. Had it done 
so; it wouldve realised that Mr J couldnt afford the repayments.
 
What happened
Mr J approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in April 2016. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr J was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr J was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in April 2016. His limit was increased 
on a further 12 occasions with his final increase  taking the credit limit to £1,000 in 
May 2018. 
Mr J had some problems repaying his facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of March 2022 an outstanding balance remained due of £177.22. It also seems the 
facility was suspended in March 2020. 
After the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, SNC made an offer to resolve 
the complaint. It explained it shouldnt have allowed Mr J to continue to use the facility after 
29 December 2019. This offer was put to Mr J, but he didnt accept it and asked for the 
complaint to be investigated.  
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Js complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out before 
granting this facility were likely proportionate and showed that Mr J could afford to maintain 
his facility. But the adjudicator also concluded that due to the way Mr J used the facility, she 
thought SNC should not have allowed him to continue using it from 6 June 2018. The 
adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. 
Mr J confirmed receipt of the assessment and agreed with it  although he did have some 
questions around the redress calculation and the tax that may need to be paid. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it made the following points. 
Mr J had sufficient disposable income to repay the drawdowns within a reasonable 
period of time.
SNC says the way Mr J was using the facility is not a bad thing.
While Mr J may have been serving the debt, he did have sufficient disposable income 
to repay the whole balance and therefore SNC wouldnt look to penalise him by 
withdrawing the facility from him.
SNC reiterated the offer it made previously was fair and reasonable. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Later on, Mr J made some additional comments which he wanted the ombudsman to 
consider. These comments are summarised below;
He agreed with the outcome the adjudicator reached. 
SNC would take almost his entire salary each month  in order to repay the facility 
which forced Mr J to reborrow from it. 
The estimates that SNC used for his income and expenditure were wrong which 
overestimated his income each month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr J wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Js expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Js facility was approved for £300 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be in a position to make the minimum repayment of £20, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Js income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Js income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr J could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Mr J accepts the adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong 
to approve his credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think SNC was wrong to 
have initially granted the facility. So, I say no more about this as the approval is no longer in 
dispute.  
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mr Js facility whilst he 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mr J to continue drawing down on the account from 6 June 2018.  This is because I think the way he was using the account indicated he 
wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Js use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mr Js actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account. By 
6 June 2018 I think SNC had seen enough to have realised that Mr Js repayment of the 
facility was now unsustainable. By this point, SNC had seen read only statements since the 
end of January 2016 and it had seen how Mr J had used and managed the facility since it 
was granted in April 2016. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mr J to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr J returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr J was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from his account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing him to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mr J would 
typically repay his facility in full (or almost the whole outstanding balance), and then within a 
day or so, hed start to draw back up to his available credit limit. 
For example, between April 2016 and October 2016 Mr J would typically drawdown the 
whole credit facility before over the course of the month, making  a payment shortly after 
being paid and then within a few days Mr J would start drawing down on the facility again 
getting back up towards his credit limit during the course of the month. 
From October 2016 until January 2017, Mr Js pattern changed slightly, he would drawdown 
new money, but then appear to only make close to the minimum payment. Then from 
November 2017 Mr J would be paid, SNC would then take either the full outstanding balance 
(or the majority of it) before Mr J returned for further borrowing, normally within a day or so 
but no more than a week later.
From November 2017, Mr J at times was making significant repayments each month to 
SNC, at times around half of his salary  and on top of this Mr J had other costs that needed 
to pay as well as other creditors.  I do accept that Mr J didnt drawdown on the facility between February and October 2017 but 
during this time he was making repayments to SNC until May 2017. He didnt make any 
repayments or drawdowns on the facility between June  September 2017. However, even 
taking this into account, I dont think it detracts from what Ive said above given that when 
Mr J returned for further borrowing the amounts he was borrowing increased.
While I accept what SNC said in response to the adjudicators assessment in relation to 
paying the back the facility in a reasonable period of time, I dont think it was reasonable, by 
June 2018 to believe that Mr J would repay the facility over a reasonable period of time  
given this hadnt really happened up to that point.
While there was a gap in usage, outside of this, and due to the increased credit limit Mr J 
was showing signs that he was borrowing more money each month and therefore his 
payments were increasing. For example, he drew down around £1,200 in May 2018 and 
made payments of around £850. These repayments were in my view a significant amount of 
his salary, given he was receiving an income at this time of around £2,000 per month.
So, I think it is far more likely, that Mr J would drawdown on the facility and then after being 
paid, SNC would then debit his bank account either with the majority of the outstanding 
balance or all of it. 
In addition to what SNC knew about the way Mr J was now using the facility, he was also, in 
my view a long-term user of high cost short term credit loans. He had been making regular 
payments towards these sorts of loans since the start of the facility in April 2016, and by 
June 2018 he was still making repayments, for example, in March 2018 he repaid nearly 
£850 to such companies. 
In May 2018, Mr J also was advanced another £300 from such a company. Knowing Mr J 
had been a long term user of this type of credit, which isnt designed for long term use ought 
to have made SNC realise, that he was likely having longer term money management issues 
rather than using the high cost credit to fill a short term need.  
So from June 2018 Mr J had demonstrated that he wasnt using the facility as SNC had 
intended, he was borrowing down and repaying either all or the majority of the facility in the 
same month, and therefore was in effect taking multiple payday loans from SNC because he 
wasnt really benefiting from or making use of the interest free period of time. 
But instead of either not or offering Mr J help, SNC continued to allow him to use the facility 
for around another four years. This meant that it would default to taking even larger 
payments from Mr Js account and therefore leaving a greater hole in his finances.
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mr J to arrange for him to repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 6 June 
2018.
B) Treat all payments Mr J has made towards their account since 6 June 2018 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.C) If at any point Mr J wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Js credit file 
from 6 June 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman