DRN-2497770
The complaint
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy for a damaged key. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim to Lloyds after a key snapped in their front door lock. 
Lloyds accepted the claim and said it would send out a locksmith to sort out the issue. It 
said Mr and Mrs B didnt have to pay an excess under their policy.
Shortly afterwards Lloyds claims department contacted Mr and Mrs B again. It explained 
thered been a mistake about the excess which was in fact £350. That meant it wasnt 
worth Mr and Mrs B making a claim.
When they complained, Lloyds explained that there wouldnt have been an excess if their 
key had been lost or stolen. But there was a standard excess of £350 for accidental 
damage. It offered them £25 for the inconvenience it had caused them by giving them 
incorrect information about the excess.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought Lloyds had applied the policy terms fairly. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the buildings insurance section of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance schedule there 
was a special excess for subsidence and escape of water claims. It went on to say that for 
Private residential cover  including replacement of sets and accidental damage cover the 
excess was £350 except for certain types of building claims. One of the exceptions was 
replacement locks and keys where there wasnt an excess. 
I think Mr and Mrs B interpret the above wording to mean that no excess should be payable 
in respect of a claim for accidental damage to locks and keys. Ill explain why I disagree.
The schedule says that full details of the cover can be found in the policy booklet and the 
two documents should be read together. The policy booklet makes it clear that the 
replacement locks and keys cover is only to replace locks and keys where keys have been 
lost or stolen. It says that accidental damage to locks and keys is covered under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. Since Mr and Mrs Bs key had snapped in the lock, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds treated them fairly by considering their claim under the accidental 
damage section of the policy where the standard excess of £350 applied.
Mr B has also referred to the well-established legal principle that where a contractual term is 
ambiguous, the interpretation most favourable to the customer should prevail. But if the 
schedule and the policy booklet are read together, as theyre intended to be, I dont think the 
wording is significantly ambiguous for this principle to have to be applied. 
Mrs B had arranged for a locksmith to attend the property before she called Lloyds. When 
she was told that there wouldnt be an excess payable, she cancelled the locksmith. She 
then had to rearrange an appointment once she was told that an excess of £350 would be 
payable. That was sensible because the locksmith charged her less than £350. Nonetheless 
the confusion about the excess caused Mr and Mrs B some unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience. To its credit Lloyds recognised this and offered £25 compensation. This is in 
line with what Id have required it to pay if no such offer had been made. So Im not going to 
require Lloyds to pay any more in this respect.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman