DRN-1610005
 
The complaint
Mr R says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy in 2003 by phone to protect his existing mortgage repayments. 
The policy gave him cover against accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to 
take it out. Mr R says his original mortgage was sold with the PPI cover and it was implied it 
wouldnt be available without it. Santander disputes this. Its records show Mr R took out PPI 
as a standalone product when his mortgage was already in place. It says he didnt take out 
any further borrowing at the time he took out PPI, but did later in 2005. The bank cant 
confirm the exact start date of his mortgage. But it has sent in a copy of a capital repayment 
form he completed in 2000 relating to a credit to his original mortgage, evidencing it was 
already in place before he had PPI. It has also sent in the application form for the further 
advance he took out in 2005. So I dont think the PPI was sold as an integral part of his 
original mortgage as he recalls, or indeed as part of his further advance. 
Santander cant provide the PPI form or direct debit mandate it says Mr R would have signed 
in 2003 after the PPI sales call. And it has no call recording. But thats not unreasonable or 
surprising given how long ago the sale was. Based on what we know about this kind of sale, 
it seems likely that the script the sales advisor wouldve used would have prompted them to 
explain that Mr R had a choice about taking the policy out. And in this case, theres not 
enough information to suggest they might have done something different.
So on balance I think its most likely Santander made it clear to Mr R that the PPI was 
optional, and he agreed to take it out. I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to make sure it was right for him. 
Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I'll explain 
why. 
He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make 
it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had when the 
PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt have been affected by 
the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
In our complaint questionnaire Mr R told us he was entitled to six months or more sick pay, 
but less than 12 months. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and for 
up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 
months' redundancy cover. This would have allowed him to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment he received from his employer, giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. Mr R said he had savings at that time and could have covered 12 
months mortgage payments but the PPI wouldve allowed him to use any savings to cover 
other living costs whilst he wasnt working  or to keep them intact for his future needs. 
Overall, I think the policy would have been useful if Mr R was sick or lost his job.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed his 
decision. I say this as Mr R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions 
or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Mr R some of the commission 
he paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Rs mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr R paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
It follows I dont think Mr R lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman