DRN-4486119
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly in regard to the 
loan it provided to him in 2021.
What happened
Mr K was provided with a loan by Nationwide in June 2021. During the pandemic he was 
staying overseas and hasnt returned since. He became ill and was in hospital and due to 
this he wasnt checking his account. In this period Nationwide sent letters to his UK address, 
but he didnt receive these. When Mr K checked his account, he found it had been defaulted. 
Mr K says that he had the money available to make his repayments. When he contacted 
Nationwide, Mr K says he felt pressured to repay the loan in full. He says he is now 
blacklisted and while he received £50 from Nationwide he doesnt know why. 
Nationwide issued a final response dated 21 September 2022. It said that Mr Ks direct debit 
payments for February, March and April 2022 were unsuccessful and as a result of three 
consecutive missed payments, the direct debit instruction was automatically cancelled. It 
noted Mr K was overseas but said it sent letters to the address it had on file and tried to call 
him. A default notice was issued requesting payment in full by 15 July. As this payment 
wasnt made and Mr K didnt make contact his account was transferred to an external party. 
In regard to Mr Ks complaint about the time he spent on a call on 2 August it said that there 
was lots of information discussed and it was satisfied with the conduct of its staff. However, it 
couldnt say how long Mr K had been waiting before he was connected, and it also noted 
that the adviser should have been able to confirm to Mr K that repaying his loan over the 24 
month option would have been at zero interest due to the account having been defaulted. 
Because of these issues it paid him £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong by applying a default to Mr Ks loan given he had missed three payments. 
She said that the £50 paid to Mr K for the long wait times and for not telling him the new 
APR of the loan was reasonable. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said he had no missed calls from Nationwide 
and he reiterated that he hadnt accessed his account because he was unwell. He said that 
when he transferred £500 to his loan account, he wasnt aware that it had already been 
defaulted. He said he had the money available to repay the loan and that the mitigating 
circumstances should be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K is upset that his loan defaulted but having looked at the 
information provided I do not find I can say that Nationwide did anything wrong by taking this 
action. 
Mr K was provided with a loan in June 2021 and set up a direct debit to make the payments. 
However, the payments were unsuccessful in February, March and April 2022 which 
resulted in the direct debit being cancelled an Mr Ks account going into arrears. I appreciate 
that Mr K was overseas at the time, and I am sorry to hear that he was unwell but as he 
hadnt made Nationwide aware of this, I cannot say it was required to do anything different to 
it usual process in these circumstances.
Because of the arrears on Mr Ks account a default notice was issued. I understand that 
Mr K wasnt receiving his post as he was overseas but as the letter was sent to the address 
held on file for Mr K I find that Nationwide took the action that we would expect. I note Mr Ks 
comment that he had no missed calls from Nationwide, but Nationwide has provided a call 
log showing that calls were made from its automated dialler system, and it has said that 
voicemails would be left up to a limit. Therefore, I find it did attempt to contact Mr K before 
taking further action. The default letter provided details of the payment Mr K needed to make 
by 15 July to prevent further action being taken. As this payment wasnt made, and Mr K 
hadnt made contact with Nationwide at this point, I cannot say that Nationwide was wrong to 
take further action. 
Mr K called Nationwide on 2 August to explain his situation. I have listened to the calls that 
have been provided and looked through Nationwides call notes. Mr K was told that 
payments towards his loan had been returned and he was given the arrears on his account. 
Mr K said he had moved money into this account, but this seemed to have happened too 
late. Mr K was told that a default notice had been issued and the impact on his credit file of 
the default. I appreciate that Mr K wasnt happy with this, but I find the adviser gave accurate 
information about his account and the impact of a default. Mr K has said he felt pressured to 
repay the loan, but he was given the option to repay over 24 months but instead he decided 
to pay the full amount.
I can understand why Mr K wanted to know about the interest rate he would be charged if he 
repaid the balance over 24 months and the adviser wasnt able to confirm to him that there 
would be no interest given the account had defaulted. This was a mistake but as Mr K said 
he wanted to pay the balance immediately I do not find I can say that he would have acted 
differently had this information been provided. That said, I find it reasonable that Nationwide 
compensated him for this and also for potentially having to wait for an extended period 
before speaking to an adviser. Nationwide paid Mr K £50 because of these issues and I find 
this reasonable.
In conclusion, while I understand why Mr K is upset that his account was defaulted, I do not 
find I can say Nationwide did anything wrong. It has compensated him for the service issues 
and in this case, I do not require it to do anything further in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman