DRN-3541243
The complaint
Ms P has complained about the service and delays she experienced when trying to 
access her pension benefits with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential).
What happened
Ms P held a personal pension with Prudential. She has explained that she had 
intended to start taking her pension in the 2020/2021 tax year, but when the covid 
pandemic hit she decided to wait until the end of 2020 to see if the markets had 
settled. 
In December 2020 Ms Ps Prudential advisor contacted her to let her know he was 
leaving the business. Ms P has said she waited for a new advisor to contact her after 
this, but by mid-February 2021 shed not heard anything and so tried to contact 
Prudential herself. 
Ms P has said she found it impossible to speak with an advisor at Prudential despite 
numerous call attempts. 
On 24 February 2021 Ms P has said she was finally successful in reaching an 
advisor at Prudential and explained that she had seen an article in a newspaper 
relating to new regulations that meant she didnt need to take financial advice to 
access her pension. The advisor said she was unaware of any changes and that if 
Ms P wanted to access her pension policy by drawdown shed need to obtain 
financial advice first. Ms P was unhappy with this and raised a complaint.
On 25 February 2021 a financial advisor from Prudential called Ms P to discuss her 
pension following the previous days call.
Ms P has said she found this advisor to be abrasive and it felt that he was forcing her 
to take his advice in order for her to access her pension. Ms P has also said she felt 
uncomfortable discussing her financial situation with him and declined to have a 
further meeting online. Ms P wanted to know the regulatory basis on which 
Prudential were relying to force her to take financial advice but couldnt get an 
answer from the advisor she spoke with.
Ms P escalated her complaint on 8 March 2021 not hearing any further responses 
from Prudential.
On 16 April 2021 Prudential provided Ms P with its first final response letter (FRL) 
and acknowledged that its service could have been better. But it also explained why 
it required her to take advice if she wanted to move her pension to the Income 
Drawdown plan.
It offered her £200 compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience it had caused in 
its delays in responding to her complaint. Prudential also offered to calculate any 
potential financial loss Ms P may have suffered due to the delays  if she took her 
policys benefits within eight weeks of its letter. 
Ms P was unhappy with this outcome and escalated the matter further.
Prudential responded to this escalation on 28 April 2021 again explaining why it 
required her to take advice if she wanted to move to the Income Drawdown plan it 
offered. But it acknowledged her complaint about how its financial advisor had made 
her feel uncomfortable and offered a further £200.
Ms P has stated she then noticed on 3 May 2021 that her pensions value had 
dropped by approximately £5,500 and when she queried this with Prudential she was 
told that the bonus value had been reduced on 1 April 2021 which had caused the 
overall drop in her funds value.
On 13 May 2021 Ms P decided to instruct an independent financial advisor to assist 
her with taking her pension benefits. Her advisor recommended she transfer her 
pension to Business B and utilise its income drawdown product. Ms P agreed with 
the recommendation and her advisor began the transfer process and by 5 July 2021 
Prudential sent the transfer forms into Business B.
There were some delays in the transfer around information about Ms Ps address, 
but the transfer was completed by 14 August 2021 and her funds invested with 
Business B by 19 August 2021.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt the complaint 
should be upheld in part. He was of the view that Prudential had explained why 
advice was needed for the kind of product Ms P had wanted and couldnt agree that 
it acted unreasonably by refusing to transfer the personal pension plan to the income 
draw down product without advice. 
The investigator also disagreed that Prudential were responsible for Ms P missing 
out on the 2020/2021 tax year and that she only began the withdrawal process after 
the deadline had already passed. And this included the bonus amount that was 
reduced in May.
The investigator also felt the £400 that Prudential had offered to acknowledge the 
stress and inconvenience its customer service had caused was reasonable and he 
didnt recommend increasing this amount.
However he did feel that Prudential had contributed to delays when Ms P started the 
withdrawal process and so Prudential needed to compensate her for the financial 
loss this had caused. This was because while Prudential had compensated for some 
of the financial loss Ms Ps pension had suffered due to the delays, it hadnt 
considered the financial loss related to Ms P taking her tax free lump sum and her 
first drawdown payment.The investigator initially decided that Prudential needed to calculate the interest 
based on our Services standard approach of 8% p.a simple interest on the 25% tax 
free cash (TFC) she had taken and her first drawdown payment of £1,571, calculated 
from 21 July 2021 until 20 August 2021 and paid to her directly.  
Prudential queried the investigators timeline. It felt that while Ms Ps funds had 
transferred on 14 August 2021, the TFC was only withdrawn on 27 August 2021. So 
it reasoned that even if the transfer had happened a month earlier it would still have 
taken thirteen days for the TFC and first drawdown payment to have been made  
meaning the actual date should be 27 July 2021.
The investigator reviewed this and agreed with Prudential regarding the time frames 
it needed to calculate the compensation on.
Ms P disagreed with the investigators findings, and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
In making her complaint Ms P has set out a detailed and comprehensive timeline of 
events and instances where she feels Prudential has failed or acted incorrectly. I can 
assure all parties that I have reviewed all of the information thoroughly, but my 
findings address only the crux of the complaint.
Ms P has described her losses caused by Prudential as being: 
Unable to drawdown in the tax year 2020/21 meaning should she take those 
funds now shed incur a £2,400 tax liability
A bonus readjustment conducted on 1 April 2021 meant her fund value 
dropped by £5,583.55  Ms P also notes the compound interest on this 
amount should be added to the losses shes suffered
A payment to acknowledge the stress, anxiety and time taken to resolve the 
matter since she first contacted Prudential
Ms P had to utilise her savings while waiting for the drawdown to be finalised 
to support her monthly outgoings. And a lump sum was needed to pay for 
home improvements and a house extension, meaning shes lost out on 
interest.
Prudential caused further delays with her pension transfer to Business B
Ms P believes Prudential could have actioned her request to access her 
pension before the 2020/21 tax year ended. So I will first discuss this point.
Ms P has said that after her advisor at Prudential left the business in December 
2020, she didnt receive any further contact and she had to contact Prudential herself to begin the drawdown process.
While I understand her frustration, ultimately, I must consider that Ms P knew she 
wanted to begin the drawdown process before the tax year ended and knowing the 
deadline was approaching she could have tried contacting Prudential herself sooner. 
Ms P has also stated that she wanted to wait until the end of 2020 in any event due 
to the previous instability in the markets caused by the pandemic. 
Ms P only began to action a transfer away from Prudential towards the end of May 
after instructing an independent financial advisor to assist with this. I appreciate that 
Ms P believed she could access her pension without needing to incur the costs of a 
financial advisor and first attempted to get Prudential to let her access her pension 
without advice, but Prudential was clear from the point she first contacted it that she 
would need to receive advice to access the drawdown product.
Prudential has explained that Ms Ps pension was a personal pension and this type 
of policy did not have a drawdown facility as per the policys terms and conditions 
and while Prudential does offer a drawdown plan it is a requirement for any customer 
wanting this product to first receive advice.
This is a business decision Prudential has made relating to this specific product and 
our Service cant comment on its decision. Ultimately Ms P was made aware of the 
reasons why she needed to take advice and she only appointed an advisor to assist 
her with actioning her request in May 2021, which was already after the tax year had 
ended.
So Im satisfied that Prudential isnt responsible for any financial losses Ms P may 
have incurred before this point. 
Turning now to the delays that occurred once Ms P did action the transfer to 
Business B. 
Prudential has acknowledged that it had caused delays and that without the errors 
the transfer could have completed by 14 July 2021 instead of 14 August 2021.
Ms P has stated her transfer forms were submitted to her IFA on 5 July 2021 and the 
transfer was requested by 9 July 2021. Given the nature of this kind of transfer 
I agree that 14 July 2021 is a reasonable date for the transfer to have finalised had 
no delays been caused.
Prudential has provided calculations showing the financial loss that Ms Ps fund 
suffered due to the delays it caused. However, it didnt consider the impact of the 
delays in relation to the funds that Ms P accessed after the fund was transferred.
As noted, initially the investigator indicated that 21 July 2021 should be used as the 
date for these calculations, based on what Ms P had told him when she had received 
the first sums from her pension.
However, Prudential clarified that the actual dates the funds were first released was 
actually 27 August 2021. Given the transfer was delayed by exactly one month its not unreasonable that the 
calculation date should then reflect the earliest Ms P would have accessed her funds 
as being 27 July 2021. 
So Im satisfied that the calculations Prudential has carried out are reasonable and 
I will not be asking it to change this.
Turning now to the distress and inconvenience that Ms P has said Prudential caused 
her.
Ms P has said that this experience with Prudential has been hugely stressful and 
time consuming and has impacted her both emotionally and physically. She has also 
explained that she has health related issues and this added to the impact the matter 
had on her while dealing with Prudential. 
I am sorry to hear of the difficulties that Ms P experienced while trying to access her 
pension and the difficulties she has had with her health. But it is important to make 
clear that this Service is impartial and while I accept that a businesss errors can 
impact its customers, I must also consider amounts that fairly acknowledge this and 
are proportionate to the errors.
Ive considered that Ms P has said the impact of Prudentials actions has caused her 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out.  As well as the problems lasting 
many months.  And taking a step back and considering the events a whole I agree 
that the £400 that Prudential has awarded is fair in this instance to acknowledge the 
impact its errors have had and is a similar amount to what I would have awarded had 
no offer been made. 
Having reviewed the complaint I am satisfied with the redress that Prudential has 
offered and I wont be asking it to take any further action in this instance.
Putting things right
Prudential must pay compensation of D + E where:
A = Interest due on the amount Ms P would have received from 27 July 2021 to 27 
August 2021 .
B = Tax free cash should have received.
C = actual amount of TFC paid.
D = (A + B)  CAnd
E = interest at 8% per cent per year simple from on D from 27 August 2021 to date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to pay Ms P compensation in line with the approach set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman