DRN-3392863
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain Insight Investment Management (Global) Limited cannot account for 
shares they hold, which it acquired from their previous fund manager. They would like to 
access their investment and the funds paid to them.
What happened
In 1996, Mr and Mrs A invested money into a UK smaller companies fund. In 2003, they 
were notified of an acquisition by a new fund manager of their investment  Insight 
Investment (Insight). 
In 2004, Insight wrote to all clients invested in the fund umbrella to advise of the intention to 
wind up the investment. All clients not resident within the UK, Guernsey, Jersey, the Isle of 
Man or Sweden were required to redeem their holdings.
In 2007, any investments which remained with Insight were sold to a new fund manager. 
Since then there have been further sales of the fund book to different fund managers in 2011 
and 2012. 
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs A contacted Insight to inquiring about getting access to their 
investment. Insight informed them at this time it couldnt trace details of their investment. Mr 
and Mrs A continued to exchange emails with Insight about the matter  leading to a formal 
complaint being made. A substantive complaint response was sent to them in July 2021.
Insight responded to say after it acquired the fund in 2003 and in 2004 it wrote to investors to 
advise of a wind up on the investment. And as Mr and Mrs A didnt live in the UK the option 
they were given was to redeem their investment. It said it couldnt locate any investment held 
by Mr and Mrs A  and has no records of any funds under its management for them.  It 
therefore assumes Mr and Mrs As account was either not transferred to Insight following the 
2003 acquisition or has been closed for a number of years.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In summary she 
came to the conclusion that the evidence available didnt support that Insight held funds 
belonging to Mr and Mrs A  and it seemed most plausible that they were redeemed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the investigators assessment. They didnt agree with the finding 
by the investigator that they redeemed their shareholding in 2004.   They also thought further 
investigation was required to establish whether the original fund managers former director 
could explain what happened to their investment.  As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about this complaint  and I have considered 
everything they have provided. However, based on the evidence I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs A say Insight is responsible for knowing the whereabouts of the funds they 
invested in 1996. Mr and Mrs A have provided evidence to support that Insight acquired their 
investment in 2003. Ive reviewed the various letter sent to their address in Zambia that 
explained that their investment is in the process of being transferred to Insight.  But they 
havent been able to provide any further information to show the existence of their 
investment after 2003. And I havent seen anything to show that they contacted Insight about 
the investment until they started making inquiries in 2020. 
Insight say it hasnt been able to trace Mr and Mrs As investment. There is little in the way of 
evidence to show what happened to the funds after late 2003. But Insight has provided a 
copy of a letter that was sent to investors in 2004 that gave notice of the proposed 
redemption of shares and the winding up of several funds  including the fund that Mr and 
Mrs As investment was held in. This notice required action to be taken by investors and 
gave two options. The first option was to complete a fund switch to an alternative fund 
managed by Insight. But this option was only available to investors living in the UK, 
Guernsey, Jersey, the Isle of Man or Sweden. The second option, which was available to all 
investors was to redeem the shares prior to the wind up. There is also warning that if you do 
not choose either option, the shares will be suspended on 20 April 2004 and you will not be 
able to redeem your shares. Instead, you will receive your share of the proceeds of the 
scheme of liquidation  and this this may not be until 31 May 2004. 
Having reviewed this information, it appears that option one  to request a fund switch and 
remain invested through Insight - wasnt available to Mr and Mrs A as they didnt reside in 
the listed countries. So, the only option they could choose was to redeem their shares. Or if 
they didnt make a choice the shares would be liquidated, and their share of the proceeds 
would be sent to them. I havent seen anything to show how Mr and Mrs A responded (or if 
at all) to the notice of the scheme wind up. But this information indicates that it wasnt 
possible for them to continue keeping their money invested with Insight. So, this supports 
that the funds could no longer be held with Insight  and would most likely have been paid 
out. 
Where evidence is limited, as it is in this case, I need to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities of what I think is most likely to have happened. Mr and Mrs A dont recall 
receiving the proceeds of their funds, so say their funds are missing and unclaimed. But as 
explained above, the information on the wind up of the fund indicates that it wasnt possible 
for their money to have remained invested with Insight after 2004. Im also conscious that Mr 
and Mrs A having been unable to provide any evidence that their money was invested or 
remained with Insight after 2004  e.g. statements or other notices. And it was many years 
later when they made any inquiries about the whereabouts of their investment.  As Ive 
explained, Insight say they can find no trace of having Mr and Mrs As funds. In light of the 
passage time that has passed since the wind up, this isnt entirely surprising.  So, based on 
the 2004 wind up notice it seems there was no option for Mr and Mrs A to have money still 
with Insight. Insight also explained it transferred any funds it still held to a different fund 
manager in 2007. The balance of evidence leads me to the conclusion that Insight isnt 
responsible for Mr and Mrs As missing funds  or that it still holds the funds. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A believe further investigation involving contacting a former 
managing director of Insight would help establish the whereabouts of their investment. They 
have provided letters that were signed by the director  including those they received around 
the time Insight acquired their investment. It is not possible to know if this director had a 
specific involvement or knowledge of Mr and Mrs As investment. Insight has confirmed that the director left his employment in 2004. Companies House records also indicate that the 
director resigned his position as a director of Insight in January 2003. While I acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs A believe he will provide information on what happened to their investment, Im 
not persuaded this investigation is warranted. I acknowledge he will likely have an 
understanding of the acquisition process Insight undertook in 2003 to acquire funds from the 
previous fund manager. But I dont think this means (even if he was traceable) further 
investigation would likely lead me to reach a different conclusion. I say this particularly as the 
evidence I have doesnt support that he was a director involved in wind up the funds in 2004. 
There is nothing within the information available to suggest he would have specific 
knowledge of what happened to Mr and Mrs As investment. 
I recognise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A but Im satisfied that 
Insight has acted appropriately in response to their request to trace their missing funds and 
that its conclusion that it doesnt holds the funds is reasonable based on the evidence . To 
be clear, I do not doubt Mr and Mrs As integrity and understand they are just trying to locate 
funds that have gone missing. But I havent found that Insight is responsible for those 
missing funds. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman