DRN-4310891
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold two single life whole of life 
policies and ignored they had a mortgage without any life cover protection.
What happened
In 1994, Mr P and Mrs P each started separate whole of life plans with Phoenix Life. The 
policies provided £50,000 life cover that was index linked. In 2022, Mr P and Mrs P 
complained that the whole of life policies Phoenix Life sold werent suitable to protect their 
repayment mortgage and that they didnt understand why the policies were recommended. 
Phoenix Life didnt uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint but accepted there had been some 
delays and poor service when it dealt with the complaints and offered Mr P and Mrs P £200 
each for these failures.
Mr P and Mrs P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
and thought Phoenix Life hadnt done anything significantly wrong. The Investigator thought 
Phoenix Life had considered Mr P and Mrs P had three dependents at the time and that the 
policy was reasonable as it provided life and critical illness for family protection and the 
mortgage. The CMC asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
As I reached a similar outcome to the Investigator but for different reasons, I decided to 
issue a provisional decision and ask Mr P and Mrs P and Phoenix Life Limited for any further 
comments. In my provisional decision I explained that I intended saying the two whole of life 
policies Phoenix Life recommended to Mr P and Mrs P werent unsuitable for their needs at 
the time.
Ive now received responses from Phoenix Life and the CMC representing Mr P and Mrs P. 
The CMC didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided further comments for me to 
consider. I will address these in my final decision. Phoenix Life had no further comments for 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of the sale Mr P and Mrs P had three dependent children and a repayment 
mortgage with a remaining term of 18 years. The fact-find records Mr P and Mrs Ps 
mortgage wasnt protected by life cover and that Mr P and Mrs P were both self-employed in 
a family business. The fact-find records the initial objectives of the review as: retirement 
planning, savings and mitigating tax liabilities. The fact-find had additional comments that 
said retirement planning and tax mitigation would be considered in the near future.
Phoenix Life recommended four policies to Mr P and Mrs P:
Mr P - £50,000 level term critical illness only cover over a 15-year term.
Mrs P - £50,000 level term critical illness only cover over a 15-year term.
Mr P  £50,000 whole of life policy with benefits indexed linked.
Mrs P  £50,000 whole of life policy with benefits indexed linked.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt take up the recommendations Phoenix Life made for level term critical 
illness cover. The whole of life policies taken up by Mr P and Mrs P didnt include critical 
illness cover. Theres no evidence suggesting why Mr P and Mrs P chose not to take up the 
level term policy and I think it would be unreasonable for me to speculate why this was the 
case - but the recommendation was made to Mr P and Mrs P at the time.
In terms of the mortgage, I cant say for certain what was discussed as this happened some 
28 years ago. Mr P and Mrs Ps say they dont understand why the whole of life policies 
were recommended, but there were some detailed discussions about protection recorded 
within the fact-find that Phoenix Life and Mr P and Mrs P completed at the time. Taking the 
recorded discussions into account, and recommendations made at the time, I will now 
consider what I think is more likely than not to have happened in this case.
The CMC representing Mr P and Mrs P reiterated its strong view that protecting an 
outstanding debt in the event of death is the cornerstone of any competent financial 
planning, and by not protecting the mortgage Phoenix Life provided poor advice. I can 
acknowledge receipt of the evidence the CMC submitted to support its position in this 
regard, but our approach is to look at the circumstances of each case to decide whether the 
recommendations as a whole were unsuitable. In this case it seems more likely than not 
Phoenix Life and Mr P and Mrs P agreed that life cover was important, that a fixed term 
wasnt what they wanted, and that Mr P and Mrs P wanted some flexibility with the benefits 
being index linked. These features suggest to me that Mr P and Mrs P more likely became 
focussed on providing family protection as it was a general need. I think this is a reasonable 
conclusion for me to reach as Mr P and Mrs P were self-employed in the same business and 
had three dependent children.
The whole of life policies left the mortgage balance without any specific protection, but it 
seems more likely than not to me that Mr P and Mrs P would have understood this to be the 
case at the time. The application forms for the two whole of life policies support this as they 
record the policies were to be used for personal protection. Mr P and Mrs P now say they 
dont understand why whole of life plans were recommended and that Phoenix Life ignored 
protecting the outstanding mortgage balance. I understand this is quite possible after 28 
years, but Ive decided the notes and application forms from the time are enough to 
persuade me Mr P and Mrs P knew at the time the mortgage would not be protected by a 
separate policy and that their general need for life cover was more important to them.
The recommendations made by Phoenix Life provided Mr P and Mrs P with valuable life 
cover  and critical illness cover separately (although this wasnt taken up. They had no life 
cover at all at the time but did hold other invested assets and an amount in a bank that was 
similar to the outstanding balance of the mortgage. Phoenix Life didnt recommend a 
separate level term cover to protect the outstanding mortgage but did recommend two 
£50,000 whole of life policies. I accept that generally we would consider whole of life policy 
unsuitable for a mortgage, but I think its more likely the two policies recommended were 
intended to provide Mr P and Mrs P with an overall sum assured that Mr P and Mrs P could 
use for family protection and, if required, reduce, or clear any mortgage balance if one of 
them passed. The life cover on the whole of life policies was guaranteed for 10-years and 
was indexed each year  and over 10 years it seems likely the mortgage balance would 
have reduced. The fact-find records that Mr P and Mrs P wanted some flexibility at the time, 
so the policies dont seem to me to unsuitable for Mr P and Mrs Ps general needs in the circumstances of this case. 
Phoenix Life accepts that it didnt handle Mr P and Mrs Ps complains as well as it should 
have. Phoenix Life says it told the CMC and Mr P and Mrs P several times that it had no 
copies of the policies, which it accepts was incorrect. This delayed Phoenix Lifes handling of 
the complaint. However, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity this isnt something I 
can consider in my decision. So, for completeness, if Mr P and Mrs P wish to accept the 
offer of £200 Phoenix Life has already made in this regard, they should contact Phoenix Life 
direct to arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided the whole of life policies Phoenix Life 
Limited recommended to Mr P and Mrs P werent unsuitable in the circumstances of this 
case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman