DRN-3770923
The complaint
Mr B complains J D Williams & Company Limited unfairly added late payment fees to his 
balance and passed his account to a debt collection agency.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr B doesnt dispute he missed payments towards his account. And the evidence 
provided by J D Williams shows the last payment they received from Mr B was in 
September 2021 (although this decision is only considering fees added after 
21 January 2021). Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, Ive 
seen they clearly explain a late payment fee can be charged if a payment is missed. 
Therefore, I cant agree with Mr B that J D Williams treated him unfairly when these 
fees were added to his balance after he didnt make his monthly payments. Im also 
aware Mr B opened his account online and would have had access to the terms and 
conditions before opening his account. He also would have been asked to confirm he 
accepted the terms and conditions before completing his application. So, I consider 
he ought to have known late payment fees could be applied if he missed payments.
Mr Bs account was defaulted in March 2022 due to the arrears that accrued. Having 
seen Mr Bs account history, Im satisfied J D Williams applied the default within the 
timeframe Id expect. I appreciate Mr B may not be happy with this, however 
defaulting his account means no further interest and charges can be added to his 
outstanding balance. And given what hes told us about his financial situation, 
I consider defaulting his account was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Its for J D Williams to decide how they manage accounts. So, we do not have the 
power to interfere with their commercial decision to pass Mr Bs account to a debt 
collection agency. Its not unusual for a business to use debt collection agencies in 
such situations, and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that demonstrates why Mr B is 
unable to co-operate with them to clear his outstanding balance. Mr B has 
consistently explained hes happy to pay what he owes. So, I dont agree its unfair or 
unreasonable for him to do so via the debt collection agency J D Williams has 
appointed. Its for this reason I wont be asking J D Williams to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
For these reasons, while I understand Mr Bs frustrations, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about J D Williams & Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman