DRN-2444402
The complaint
Mrs H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has increased the cost of her 
pet insurance policy despite no recent claims being made.
What happened
Mrs H took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2009 to cover her pet dog. The initial 
premium was around £200 but had increased significantly by the most recent renewal. 
RSA explained that as Mrs Hs dog was now eleven years old the premiums had changed to 
reflect the increased risk. However, it accepted the premium increase would have come as a 
surprise to Mrs H and offered £250 in recognition of the distress shed been caused. 
Our investigator said it wasnt for us to tell RSA how much this insurance should cost. And 
she explained why the premium in this case had increased. She didnt think Mrs H had been 
treated unfairly in relation to that. However, she didnt think it had been made clear to Mrs H 
when she took out the policy this was likely to happen. Or that the cost increases might be 
so significant she might not be able to continue with a policy that she intended to cover her 
pet for life. But she thought the £250 RSA had offered was a fair way of recognising the 
impact on Mrs H of not being told what the extent of the premium increases might be. 
Mrs H agreed that it wasnt made clear to her that the cost of the policy could increase so 
significantly. She said she was now unable to find an alternative insurer who would take on 
the risk of an older dog, And she said the proposed compensation didnt even cover the 
most recent premium increase. So I need to reach a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered. 
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs H took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be. 
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. Its 
up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for the percentages 
of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Hs policy is too high, she 
should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the 
future. 
And while Mrs Hs premium has seen a significant increase RSA has explained to us the 
reasons for that and whats driven that change. I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA 
has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same 
position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going forward. 
What RSA should have done was to make the longer-term cost implications clear to 
Mrs H when she took this policy out. RSA says it understands why the increase would have 
come as a surprise to Mrs H. So I dont think its in dispute the information it was responsible 
for producing wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
The question for me is whether Mrs H would have acted differently if shed been given 
clearer information. Mrs H chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of 
cover for her pet. And, as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some 
interest in the greater level of cover it provided. 
If Mrs H hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, where she 
would have found herself in a situation where her pets conditions were no longer covered. 
So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if shed 
known the premium could increase significantly in the future. I appreciate Mrs H is now in a 
position where her dog is unlikely to be covered for pre-existing conditions if she switches to 
a different insurer. But pet insurance generally doesnt cover pre-existing conditions so I 
dont think thats a result of anything RSA got wrong. 
However, I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs H wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen. And Ive thought about what the right amount to 
recognise that is. 
I note Mrs H made some claims on the policy so I think she might reasonably have expected 
the cost to increase to reflect that. But the cost of the policy has nevertheless increased by a 
considerable amount and more significantly in recent years. I think the extent of that 
increase would have been unexpected to Mrs H and would have caused her distress. 
However, on balance, I think the £250 that RSA has already offered does enough to 
recognise the impact on her of that. 
My final decision
I think the compensation that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has already offered does 
enough to recognise the impact on Mrs H of what it got wrong. So I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman