DRN-1709764
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with BMF.
On collecting the car, Mr S noticed that a leak in the boot which he was told would be fixed 
before he picked the car up hadnt been fixed. He returned the car to the supplying dealer for 
repairs. The supplying dealer said it had already repaired the boot by replacing the boot 
seal. It identified a that a grommet was missing on the rear left light and replaced this. It 
tested the repair and confirmed that no water was entering the boot.
Mr S says the leak wasnt fixed. He complained to BMF and asked to reject the car. He also 
complained to this service but in the meantime decided to get the leak fixed at another 
garage at his own cost.
In its final response, BMF said the repairs had been successful and there were no grounds 
to reject the car.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although Mr S had the right to reject the 
car under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 because the attempt at repair failed, this wasnt an 
appropriate remedy now because the fault had been fully resolved. The investigator said that 
BMF should recognise that Mr S had suffered a financial loss by meeting the cost of repairs 
and paying compensation.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed already purchased another car as he wasnt happy with the 
car and he was worried that the water leak had caused damage to the inside of the boot 
which would lead to future rust issues which might be costly to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where fault arises in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to 
put things right. The business is allowed one attempt to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that there was a fault at the point of supply.
Theres no dispute that the first two attempts at repair failed here, because the boot was still 
leaking. Under the relevant legislation, Mr S had grounds to reject the car after the first failed 
attempt at repair.  However, I dont think this is the appropriate remedy now. Ill explain why.
If the car was still faulty then I would recommend rejection. However, Mr S has told this 
service that hes since had the leaking boot repaired at his own cost and that the repair has 
been successful. The car is no longer faulty. Whilst I appreciate that it mustve been 
unpleasant and frustrating to have a leaky boot for the first few weeks of having the car, I 
can see that the issue was fully resolved before the onset of winter. 
Mr S has explained that the repairs were carried out by another garage. He doesnt have any 
evidence of the work undertaken or the cost, but hes told this service that the repairs cost 
£25 and Ive no reasons to doubt this. The costs are not unreasonable.
Although BMF has said that the repairs carried out by the supplying dealer were successful, 
I dont think this is likely. I say this because Mr S complained to BMF soon afterwards and 
arranged repairs of his own, neither of which would have been necessary if the fault had 
been resolved. So, Im persuaded that the repairs carried out by the supplying dealer werent 
successful.
However, as Ive said above, the fault has now been fully resolved and accordingly it would 
be disproportionate to require BMF to accept a rejection. 
Mr S initially said that he had concerns about rust in the boot but upon further investigation it 
transpired that there is no rust at the moment but he had concerns about possible rust in the 
future. I have no way of knowing whether the boot will become rusty or not, but I cant ask 
BMF to pay for repairs to damage which doesnt exist or to compensate Mr S for damage 
which hasnt  and might not  occur.  
  
Putting things right
Im persuaded that Mr S has suffered a financial loss in having to pay for his own repairs. Im 
also of the view that he has experienced inconvenience and distress at having to drive the 
car for several weeks with a leaking boot, which wouldve restricted his use of this part of the 
car. Its possible that hell have to pay for further repairs to the boot in the future if it becomes 
rusty. Because of this I think BMF should refund Mr S the cost of repairs and refund a 
proportion of his monthly payments to reflect his impaired use of the car. I also think BMF 
should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must:
Refund Mr Ss repair costs of £25
Refund 15% of Mr Ss payments made from inception of finance up to and including 
September 2019 and add *% simple interest to this sum from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement 
Pay compensation of £125 for distress and inconvenience Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman