DRN-4047345
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of the estate of Mr X complains ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold Mr X 
two life assurance policies. Mr Cs also unhappy ReAssure havent disclosed the level of 
commission charged on either policy.
What happened
In 1993, Mr X took out a level term life assurance policy through an adviser from Barclays 
Life who ReAssure have since acquired liability for.
The policy provided £5,000 of cover for a premium of £15.06 to satisfy a condition of 
borrowing put in place by a bank manager to agree an extension of an overdraft facility for 
his business. The policy was set up for a term of ten years.
In 1999, Mr X cancelled the policy and took out a Mortgage Guard decreasing term 
assurance policy providing £15,000 of cover for five years alongside a business loan for the 
same amount and term. This policy ran until the business loan was repaid early at which 
point the policy was cancelled.
In 2019, Mr C complained to ReAssure that Mr X had been forced to take out the policy in 
1993 despite having sufficient means by way of savings, existing life cover or business 
assets to have been able to repay the overdraft without further protection.
Regarding the 1999 policy, Mr C said Barclays Life had failed to ensure Mr Xs 
circumstances and needs at the time had been fully explored, nor had they fairly and fully 
advised him of any exclusions in cover, as well as the benefits and comparative costs of any 
policy.
Mr C also complained on both occasions, Mr X was not offered a choice of alternatives or 
given the option to go to another provider and he wasnt made aware of the level of 
commission that was charged.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint saying the recommendation of both policies was 
suitable for Mr Xs circumstances at the time. Mr C remained unhappy, so referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think ReAssure were responsible for 
protection being a condition of the lending being agreed in 1993. He was also satisfied the 
policy recommended suitably met the lenders requirements so didnt agree it had been mis-
sold. Our Investigator didnt comment on the policy sold in 1999.
Mr C disagreed with our Investigators opinion saying because the bank were acting directly 
as ReAssures agent, ReAssure should bear full legal responsibility for the policy being set 
out as a condition of lending. He also said despite numerous requests for ReAssure to 
disclose what commission was charged on the policies, they have chosen not to.
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 28 February 2023. In this I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. Mr C has 
presented this case in a detailed manner, and I thank him for this. If theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
1993
Condition of the lending
Taking out protection was a requirement to Mr Xs business overdraft extension being 
agreed. Mr Cs provided a letter from the bank manager at the time confirming this.
Whilst I understand Mr C considers ReAssure should be held responsible for this, I dont 
agree. This is because the policy was sold by Barclays Life who, as Ive previously 
explained, ReAssure have since acquired liability for. 
But any conditions to the lending being approved were decided by the bank. And as such not 
the responsibility of ReAssure who this complaint is against.
Because of this, any complaint point related to the requirement of the policy for the lending 
to be approved should be directed to the bank. Im not able to comment further here.
Suitability of the policy
As Ive said above, it was a condition of the lending for Mr X to have in place a suitable life 
assurance. Initially the requirement was for a life and critical illness policy to be taken out, 
but on request the bank agreed to accept a level term life only policy. This was a choice 
made by the bank  the lender taking on the risk. It wasnt a decision that ReAssure couldve 
made.
So, in arranging the level term life assurance policy, which provided a level amount of cover 
for a ten-year term, ReAssure provided a policy that was appropriate to satisfy the lenders 
requirements. As such, given the extension of the overdraft went ahead on the terms set out 
by the bank, I cant say that ReAssure has done anything wrong.
ReAssures adviser represented only Barclays Life so would have had a limited range of 
products available to them. The adviser had no obligation to recommended clients look 
elsewhere if they had a suitable offering.The policy provided £5,000 cover which matched the extended overdraft limit and had a 
monthly premium of £15.06. I acknowledge its possible the bank couldnt have recovered 
the borrowing via the policy if, as it is disputed, they failed to assign it themselves. But again, 
this wouldve been an issue for Barclays to overcome had the issue arisen. ReAssure 
recommended a policy that provided the cover required and it wasnt for them to ensure the 
cover was then correctly assigned.
Ultimately, ReAssure recommended a level term policy that provided life assurance that 
matched the maximum borrowing, for a ten year period. This was accepted to fulfil a 
condition of extending an ongoing overdraft facility. 
In my view, Im satisfied the recommendation made was suitable and I dont think ReAssure 
need to be anything to put things right here.
Commission 
Mr C has repeatedly asked ReAssure to confirm what commission was charged on the 
policy but have not received a response. To date, this point had not been addressed by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service either.
Ive not been provided any information on the commission payable on this policy and due to 
the passage of time thats passed since the policy ended, approximately 24 years, this 
information may not be available. 
But that doesnt mean ReAssure shouldnt respond to Mr Cs question. Hes simply asked 
what commission was charged on his fathers policy in 1993. ReAssure should provide the 
information requested or, should it not be available, tell Mr C this. 
1999
Suitability of the policy
The Mortgage Guard policy was taken out alongside a loan Mr X applied for after receiving a 
letter offering him a business loan of up to £15,000. The letter clearly stated the example 
quote included protection and that this was an optional package. 
So, Im satisfied Mr X knew at the time he didnt need to take out a policy to obtain the 
lending. But that doesnt mean it was suitable to ensure protection was in place should the 
worst happen.
Mr X was around 67 at the time of taking out the loan and was a 50/50 partner in the 
business with his son. His medical information was recorded on the application at the time.
The adviser recommended a policy that provided £15,000 of life assurance on a decreasing 
basis  meaning the level of cover would reduce as the loan was repaid over time. The term 
of the policy matched the term of the loan taken out.
ReAssures adviser represented only Barclays Life so would have had a limited range of 
products available to them and I can see the personal illustration provided with the 
acceptance letter advised Mr X this was the case. The adviser had no obligation to 
recommended clients look elsewhere if they had a suitable offering and Mr X couldve 
sought advice elsewhere had he not been happy with the recommendation made.
I can see from the fact-find completed at the time that the adviser also recommended 
protection to be taken by both partners in the business, but they opted to proceed with a policy to cover the life of Mr X only. This further satisfies me that Mr X was aware he could 
decline the recommendation should he have been unhappy.
Ultimately, ReAssure recommended a decreasing term life policy that provided cover to 
match the amount and term of the borrowing.
In my view, Im satisfied the recommendation made was suitable and I dont think ReAssure 
need to do anything to put things right here.
Commission 
Mr C has repeatedly asked ReAssure to confirm what commission was charged on the 
policy but have not received a response. To date, this point had not been addressed by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service either.
Ive reviewed the documents provided and specifically the protection acceptance letter sent 
to Mr X on 4 August 1999. The sections headed How much will the advice cost? set out the 
fees and commission payable. It says:
The amount depends on the size of the premiums and the term of the plan.
For arranging this plan, Barclays Life provides remuneration to your Adviser and 
services to support the advice (which amongst other things includes administration 
and technical support, office accommodation and computer equipment) to the value 
of £623.
The above will be paid for out of the premiums.
So, Im satisfied in respect of the Mortgage Guard policy sold in 1999, Mr X was advised of 
the commission charged and this information is now available to Mr C. I wont be asking 
ReAssure to do anything more here.
All parties provided comments in response to my provisional decision. And theyve also now 
confirmed theyve no further comments to add. Ive now considered everything provided and 
having done so; my overall decision remains the same. Ill explain why.
ReAssure responded to confirm, due to the length of time thats passed since the 1993 
policy ended, they have limited documentation from the time of the sale and have been 
unable to find any records of the commission that wouldve been paid.
ReAssure offered to clarify this to Mr C, on behalf of the estate of Mr X. Mr C has accepted 
this offer, and our Investigator has now asked ReAssure to write out to the estate directly. 
Because of this I wont comment further on it in my decision.
Mr C raised questions about the protection being a condition of the borrowing. But its 
accepted this was a condition put in place by the bank manager at the time. So, for the 
reasons Ive previously explained, I remain satisfied the policy recommended by ReAssure 
was suitable for the circumstances at the time.
Mr C also raised questions around ReAssures inability to confirm the amount of commission 
paid for the 1993 policy. He at least thinks they should be able to provide an idea of the 
percentages paid on this specific policy type at the time, or that they should be able to 
confirm if there was a minimum set-up fee.
I understand the lack of information available must be frustrating for Mr C. But I must consider the circumstances of the case brought to me. As Ive previously said ReAssure 
should tell Mr C, on behalf of the estate of Mr X, what commission was paid on the policy or, 
should it not be available, tell him this. This is what ReAssure have now done.
In summary, Ive considered the additional information provided by all parties, along with all 
the evidence presented to me. But Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the 
one I reached previously.
ReAssure have agreed to confirm they no longer hold any information, regarding the 
commission paid in relation to the 1993 policy, directly with Mr C on behalf of the estate of 
Mr X. And our investigator has now asked them to do this in writing.
So, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont consider ReAssure 
needs to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr X 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman