DRN-3554385
The complaint
Mr D complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declining a claim under his pet 
insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to Covea include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr D took his dog to the vet (W) following the dog displaying behaviours, 
including digging at carpets and licking floors. W couldnt find any obvious physical problems 
so referred the dog to a specialist vet (L) for further investigation. Following an examination 
of the dog and consideration of the behaviours and clinical history, L thought the behaviour 
suggested a clinical cause (most commonly pain) but didnt make a specific diagnosis. 
Claims for treatment were submitted to Covea to October 2021, which were accepted. 
A further claim for treatment was submitted in November 2021, but Covea referred it to an 
independent vet (V) for a second opinion as they now thought the issues could be linked to a 
previous incident in 2017 when the dog had been licking floors. Based on Vs opinion, Covea 
then declined the claim as they concluded the issues were due to a pre-existing condition 
before Mr D took out his policy in October 2019.
Mr D was unhappy about Coveas decline of his claim, particularly as previous claims for 
treatment had been accepted. So, he complained to Covea.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said as the claim related to 
behaviour, they had referred it to V for a second opinion. They noted Vs opinion the 
behaviour (licking the floor) had been noted in the dogs medical history in 2017 (and again 
in 2019, before Mr D took out his policy). V thought it likely the previous episodes were 
related to the current behaviour (although it was impossible to be 100% sure). Based on this, 
Covea referred to the policy exclusion for a pre-existing condition and confirmed their 
decision to decline the claim. They also said they wouldnt cover the condition in the future 
(but they wouldnt seek repayment of claims previously accepted).
Unhappy at Coveas response, Mr D complained to this service. He said the claim in 
November 2021 was for the same treatment as earlier claims and the dog was showing no 
new behaviours or symptoms. He said the dog licking floors had happened since 2017, but 
W and L thought it could be due to anxiety, habit, or other reasons. They didnt think it was 
linked to the more recent change in behaviour and back pain. Mr D was concerned at the 
financial impact of the claim being rejected and the potential future cost of treatment (if 
deemed to be for a pre-existing condition). He wanted Covea to reverse their decision and 
accept the claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly. He thought 
the clinical history and views of W and L didnt indicate a link between the behaviours in 2017 
and 2019 and the more recent behaviours and symptoms. He didnt think V had clearly 
shown a link, so Covea hadnt shown it was fair to apply the pre-existing condition to decline 
the claim. He thought the behaviour was more likely to be related to other incidents and 
conditions, and as it was periodic rather than constant, this didnt suggest it was linked. The 
investigator thought Covea should reassess the claim against the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, without the exclusion. If they accepted the claim, they should also 
pay interest from the date they would have accepted the claim (had they not declined it) to 
the date they did settle it. He also thought Covea should pay £100 compensation to Mr D for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Covea said they considered the behaviour (for which 
treatment was claimed) to be pre-existing. It wasnt for back pain, which they said hadnt 
been diagnosed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea have acted fairly towards Mr D. 
The main issue in Mr Ds complaint is whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim for 
treatment, on the grounds that it related to a pre-existing condition (and exclusion under the 
policy). Mr D says the dogs behaviour and treatment was no different to previous episodes 
and treatments (for which claims had been accepted). He doesnt think it was linked to the 
more recent change in behaviour and back pain, citing the views of W and L who treated his 
dog. Coveas view is that the behaviour of the dog was pre-existing (and linked). They refer 
to the views of V in support of this position.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by Covea in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the opinions of the different vets and the clinical history 
of Mr Ds dog. Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, the policy defines Pre-
existing condition as:
a) An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before 
your pets cover started; or
b) An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical 
signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before cover started; or
c) An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, 
incident, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No 
matter where the injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or 
on, your pets body. This is on addition to any exclusion(s) stated on your 
Certificate of Insurance.
Under the Insured events we will cover part of the policy, Section 1A: Veterinary Fees, 
theres a sub-heading What we will not pay that includes the following:
2. The cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition.
I think these conditions (exclusions) are clear (and would have been clear to Mr D at the time 
he took out his policy). So, pre-existing conditions (illnesses) that were present (or first 
showed clinical signs) arent covered under the policy. Its also industry practice for pet 
insurance policies to often exclude pre-existing conditions.Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition. In 
declining the claim (and their response to our investigators view) Covea say the behavioural 
issues (specifically the licking of floors) noted at various times, from 2017 through to the 
claim made in November 2021, indicate a pre-existing condition. In the context of the 
definition of pre-existing condition cited by Coves in their final response (set out above) Ive 
taken illness to include behavioural illness (which the policy defines separately).
 
Coming back to the question of whether the dog had a pre-existing condition, Ive looked at 
the previous claims and clinical history, together with the views of the various vets. Based on 
that, against the policy terms and conditions above, Ive concluded Covea havent shown the 
dog had a pre-existing condition. So, they acted unfairly in declining the claim for treatment. 
Ill set out why Ive come to that view. 
Looking at the clinical history, the first reference to licking of floors was in 2017, when the 
notes also refer to sickness and the problem may have been due to gastric acid. Similar 
behaviour later that year also mentions stress as a potential cause and (subsequently) signs 
of abdominal discomfort. Mention of floor licking in 2019 doesnt provide any additional 
factors or cause. The next reference to floor licking isnt until May 2021, over two years later. 
Reference is made of a change in behaviour and while an issue with glands is noted, no 
clear cause of the change is given - although mention is made later to lumbar pain. Looking 
at this history, it doesnt indicate a clear, linked condition causing the behaviour consistently 
over the period. But there are different possible underlying causes. So, Im not persuaded 
theres a clear, consistent pre-existing condition.
Turning to the views of the vets, Vs view is that it is likely the previous episodes are related, 
although he goes on to say its impossible to be 100% sure. But I havent seen anything 
further to support this view. Ls view is that the behaviour suggested a clinical cause (most 
commonly pain) but didnt make a specific diagnosis. W refers to the earlier 2017 episode 
possibly being stress-related and does not believe the more recent behaviour (in 2021) was 
related to the behaviour prior to 2018. The views of the three differ, but on balance (together 
with the points from the clinical history) Im not persuaded theres a pre-existing condition.
Ive also considered that, as a general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the 
onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given my conclusions above about 
whether there was a pre-existing condition, then I dont think Covea have shown it was 
reasonable to apply the exclusion. 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Covea havent acted fairly in declining 
Mr Ds claim. Given my conclusion, Ive thought about what Covea need to do to put things 
right. As I dont think theyve acted fairly in applying the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the claim, they should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (taking account of any policy excess). If Mr D has already paid for the 
cost of treatment, then in addition Covea should pay interest on the assessed amount to 
settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr D paid the cost of treatment to the 
date they settle the claim.
On the question of compensation, our investigator thought Covea should pay Mr D £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Taking account of the circumstances of the 
case, I think thats reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:Assess Mr Ds claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy (taking account of any policy excess).  If Mr D has already paid for the 
cost of treatment, then in addition Covea should pay interest on the assessed 
amount to settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr D paid the 
cost of treatment to the date they settle the claim.
Pay Mr D £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman