DRN-4153614
The complaint
Miss D complains about the premium Wakam charged for the renewal of her lifetime pet 
insurance policy.
Wakam, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint and 
references to Wakam also includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss D took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog with Wakam in 2018. She 
complained when she received the renewal documentation in November 2022 for the new 
policy year starting in January 2023. This is because the premium quoted was an 80% 
increase on the year before. Wakam offered to see if increasing the excess or reducing the 
cover would bring the premium down, but Miss D didnt want to do this. Ultimately, Miss D 
cancelled the insurance policy with Wakam.
In response to Miss Ds complaint, Wakam explained over the last couple of years it has 
received feedback relating to the way it calculates renewal prices. It explained many 
customers  who might not have made claims  felt it wasnt fair not to take into account 
their pets claims history as they were in essence paying for other customers claims. These 
customers felt it was fairer to factor in personal claims history. As a result, it made the 
decision, in July 2022, to include personal claims history from the last 12 months alongside 
the normal factors which impact the renewal price. This meant if Miss D had made any 
claims in the last year, she may find this has affected her premium. Further, it said veterinary 
costs are increasing which means it needs to make sure premiums are fairly and correctly 
priced to take this into account. 
Wakam said Miss Ds pet dogs claims history caused an increase in the policy while her pet 
cats claims history  also insured on the same policy - reduced the increase a little. Further, 
it said the main increase was caused by the breed of Miss Ds dog and a general price 
increase which affected all customers. Whilst it said the price quoted is correct, it 
acknowledged this came as a shock to Miss D so offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy at the increase in premium, Miss D brought her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked into things but didnt consider Wakam had 
acted unfairly in how it priced Miss Ds policy. 
Miss D disagreed. She says she was told when she originally bought the policy, she wouldnt 
be penalised for any claims made. This coupled with only having to pay one excess for the 
year encouraged her to take her pets to the vet for every minor concern she had about their 
health. Shed been very happy with the service shed had up until the time of the renewal 
quotation and is upset she isnt able to afford the policy moving forward. She feels as though 
shes being penalised during a cost of living crisis, particularly when nothing about her dog 
has changed. 
The Investigator and Miss D communicated about the points raised but this didnt change the 
Investigators view. As Miss D didnt agree, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the risks its policies cover, and this 
will be based on the risk it considers a customer presents. Its up to the insurer how much 
the premium increases by and its common for this to vary from year to year. As this is a 
commercial decision, I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost 
 this is because its not my role to tell an insurer how it should operate its business. So, I 
cant say the cost of Miss Ds policy is too high or that she should be charged less in the 
future. Instead, I can consider whether the premium has been calculated correctly and 
applied consistently and fairly  that is, in the same way to consumers in a similar situation. 
Miss D is unhappy with the premium charged for the renewal of her lifetime policy. I can 
understand why Miss D was concerned the increase in premium isnt fair given her monthly 
payment in 2022 was £163.13 and this increased to a monthly payment of £293.65 in the 
quote provided for 2023. Also, Miss D says she took out a policy on the basis her premium 
wouldnt be impacted by claims made. This appears to have been the case for several years 
until Wakam changed its approach in to include personal claims history July 2022 and this 
was factored into Miss Ds 2023 renewal quotation. 
When deciding how much to charge for its policies, insurers will assess how likely it is it 
policyholders will make a claim and how much it might have to pay out for those claims. 
Each insurer will make that assessment in its own way. Insurers regularly monitor the market 
and change its approach in response to internal and external factors. In this case, Wakam 
says the change to factor in previous claims was brought about following an extreme 
volume of feedback from its customers who felt not doing this was unfair. Miss D may feel 
this is unfair, but Wakam, like all insurers, will review its approach to risks at different points 
and this will result in changes to the premium. So, I cant say Wakam have acted unfairly 
here in changing its approach which was then applied equally to all its customers. 
Some of the things an insurer, such as Wakam, considers when assessing risk and 
calculating premiums include factors like the increasing cost of vets fees, insurance 
premium tax, and other underwriting changes. And its assessment of those factors will affect 
all its customers in a similar way. Then there are other specific factors that will affect Miss D 
and those who have dogs who present similar specific risks. That includes things like the 
dogs age, breed and  following a claim  the risk of a further claim occurring. 
Its reasonable for insurers to apply any changes to customers at renewal  and for this to be 
sent in advance of the renewal date to allow a customer to make an informed decision on 
whether to continue with the policy  and this is what happened here. 
I think its also important to note that, while the personal claims history was a factor affecting 
the 2023 renewal price, it wasnt the only factor. Wakam have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Miss Ds price was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with her because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. Wakam 
have provided a breakdown of the policy price and I can see one factor which has led to a 
price increase is a general price increase across all similar policy types and this has affected 
all customers. The age and breed of Miss Ds dog - along with other factors such as location 
 also have an impact on the price. As Miss D says, the breed of her dog hasnt changed. 
However, this doesnt mean the risk Wakam considers the breed and age of a dog like Miss 
Ds presents has also stayed the same. As mentioned above, insurers are entitled to decide 
how much to charge for the risks its policies cover. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the price Miss D was quoted has been 
calculated correctly and Ive seen no evidence other Wakam customers in Miss Ds position 
will have been treated differently. This means I dont uphold the main part of her complaint. I 
can see Wakam acknowledged the new premium came as a shock to Miss D, so it offered 
£100 compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I recognise Miss D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  
in trying to resolve her dispute with Wakam  can do for her.
I understand Miss D is unhappy about the information given to her when she first took this 
policy out. And she feels this change is at odds with this. However, as the Investigator 
explained, this isnt something I can consider in this complaint - which is against Wakam - as 
it took over this policy quite some time after its sale to Miss D.
My final decision
My final decision is Wakam doesnt need to do anything further to put things right. It should 
pay £100 to Miss D, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman