DRN-3997612
The complaint
Mr W complained his claim was unfairly declined by HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) under 
his pet insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr Ws pet insurance was up for renewal with HDI, Mr W said he found exactly the 
same policy online for a lower price, so rather than accept the renewal he took out the 
cheaper priced policy.
During the next few days, Mr Ws pet developed a limp, so he had it checked out by a vet, 
and this was followed up with a CT scan. The vet said no action was required except for the 
pet to be given pain relief and a recommendation was made for a dietary supplement for the 
pet.
Mr W made a claim for the costs of the scan and diagnosis which amounted to just over 
£1,400. However, HDI decided to decline the claim, as it said the first signs or symptoms of 
illness were noticed within 14 days of the start of the policy, which wasnt covered under the 
policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had fairly declined the 
claim in line with the policy conditions. Mr W disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said he didnt renew his policy as he was able to buy the same policy online for a lower 
price. This is important as HDI would be expected to offer policies to both new and old 
customers at the same price. So, Ive checked the policy offered at renewal with that which 
Mr W bought online.
However, the policies are slightly different. When Mr W bought the policy online he selected 
a higher excess payment which had the impact of reducing his premium. There were also 
other differences, including the new policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions, illnesses 
identified in the first 14 days of the policy been taken out or dental treatment in the first 12 
months. Therefore, I dont agree with Mr W, as I think its clear the policies were different 
and justified a different premium.
HDI have clarified its policies cant be renewed online. So, Im persuaded Mr W bought a 
new policy and didnt renew his old policy which wouldve maintained his continuous lifetime 
cover for his pet. I appreciate Mr W may think this is unfair. But he didnt choose to renew his 
old policy, he selected a new policy with different terms and conditions so that he benefitted 
from a lower premium. Therefore, any claim Mr W made wouldve been subject to the terms 
and conditions of the new policy.
HDI declined Mr Ws claim as it said the terms and conditions stated any illness arising prior 
to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of the insurance isnt covered by the 
policy. Mr W made his claim only a few days after he took out the policy online. As this was 
within the 14 days period the policy sets out that illnesses arent covered, then I think HDI 
has been reasonable in declining the claim. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require HDI Global Specialty SE 
to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman