DRN-2084112
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Omni Capital Retail Finance Limiteds (Omni) decision not to meet a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) in respect of 
a fixed sum loan she had with it. 
 
What happened
Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni in March 2018 to fund dental 
treatment for her son, Mr H, with a dental facility (who I shall refer to as S). The cost of the 
treatment was £19,000 and Mrs B provided a deposit of £3,000 so the sum borrowed was 
£16,000. The agreement was to be repaid over five years. 
Before the treatment could be completed on Mr H, S went out of business. 
Mrs B raised a claim under section 75 against Omni claiming S had breached the supply 
contract by failing to complete the agreed treatment on Mr H.
Omni considered the claim but said it was not liable to pay it because one of the 
requirements for a valid claim under section 75 had not been met. It said the necessary 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship had not been made out because the dental treatment 
was supplied to Mr H and not Mrs B. 
Our investigator didnt think Omni had unreasonably declined to pay the claim. He said the 
d-c-s relationship was not made out because the loan needed to have financed a transaction 
between Mrs B and S but instead it had financed one between Mr H and S.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said there were examples on our website of similar cases where wed concluded it was 
unreasonable for the respondent business to decline to pay a claim. She also said there was 
case law that supported her argument she was a party to the contract with S. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide here what, if anything, Omni should do to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. To do 
this, I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75. This provides that in 
certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, 
which includes establishing a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the 
supplier.
The credit agreement here is clearly between Mrs B and Omni as she is named on it as the 
borrower. This means that the credit provided by Omni must have financed a transaction 
between the debtor (Mrs B) and the supplier (S).
Although the supply agreement with S has not been made available, Ive taken into account 
Mrs Bs testimony that the treatment was for Mr H and I dont find this to be in dispute. Given 
the very personal and invasive nature of the treatment that was to be carried out on Mr H 
(and in the absence of any other persuasive evidence otherwise) I find the supply contract 
was most likely between S and Mr H. 
I accept that Mrs B may have had a hand in identifying and negotiating with S. But Ive not 
seen enough to make me think this involvement was enough to join her in on the supply 
contract in this case. This again is because of the nature of the service being provided which 
I cannot reasonably say was for Mrs B.
Mrs B has referred to a decision made on another complaint in furtherance of her argument 
that she was a party to the supply contract. I must consider Mrs Bs complaint on its 
individual merits and I am not bound by previous decisions. Nevertheless, the decision in 
question relates to a timeshare re-sale contract. The facts in that complaint are different to 
this one and relate to services which were utilised by more than party. This is not the case 
here as the treatment was not being performed on Mrs B. 
Mrs B has also referred to the case of Citibank Trust Limited v Allen 1999. This case 
involved two sisters living together, one of which, sister A, had entered into a finance 
agreement to fund the purchase of a boiler and the other, sister B, had signed the sales 
paperwork for it. No point of principle was decided in this case however the judge made 
some comments obiter: 
In fact the realities probably are, but this of course is speculation, that the two Miss 
Allens, living together as they do in the same house, share expenses in some way 
which suits them and that one operates as the agent for the other for all purposes. 
But we, of course, cannot explore that without evidence.
The court appears to contemplate that if it had been raised in time (which it wasnt) it would 
examine evidence to determine whether sister B was to be treated as sister As agent  
which would be relevant in determining if the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is made 
out. 
From the evidence provided in this case, I dont find the kind of purchase that Mr H made 
from S can reasonably be attributed to Mrs B in the same way one involving two co-habiting, 
financially linked individuals that share use of a household boiler might be. So, I dont think 
the case Mrs B has pointed supports an argument that the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship is made out in this case.
Overall therefore, I agree with the investigator that the necessary relationship between the 
debtor, creditor and supplier is not made out in this complaint. It follows that it was not 
unreasonable of Omni to decline Mrs Bs claim under section 75.  My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman