DRN-4231522
The complaint
Mr H complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to apply a chronic condition 
exclusion under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H holds private medical insurance cover with Aviva. 
In May 2022, Mr H was told by Aviva that it considered his peripheral arterial disease to be 
chronic, and that it wouldnt cover any claims for this after the policy renewal in January 
2023. 
Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. He said Aviva had previously applied a 
cardiovascular exclusion, and this Service had concluded that Aviva was wrong to do so. He 
thought Aviva had effectively reimposed this exclusion, but under the chronic condition 
clause. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He concluded that it had been 
reasonable for Aviva to apply the chronic condition exclusion when it did. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Hs previous complaint with this Service. I see that Mr H had switched to 
the Aviva policy from another insurer. After Mr H made a claim, Aviva thought he hadnt 
disclosed all his relevant medical history when taking out the policy. Aviva said if it had 
known the information, it would have applied an exclusion for Mr Hs cardiovascular system. 
Aviva therefore applied a personal exclusion to the policy retrospectively.
Our investigator considered the complaint in 2019. After doing so, she concluded that Mr H 
had not misrepresented information about his health when taking out the policy. She 
therefore recommended that Aviva remove the exclusion and pay the claim. Aviva accepted 
our investigators findings, and the complaint was resolved. 
Mr Hs current complaint is unrelated to the above. Aviva has not applied a personal 
exclusion due to misrepresentation. Instead, it has applied the chronic condition exclusion 
which forms part of the policy terms. Im satisfied it is entitled to do this. 
The policy says:
We do not cover treatment of a chronic condition. Including:
regular planned check ups for a chronic condition where you are likely to need 
treatment
expected deterioration of a chronic condition which needs regular consultations, 
diagnostic tests or treatment from a specialist.
BUT:
we do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until your condition is 
re-stabilised
The policy defines chronic condition as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics: 
- it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups 
and/or tests
- it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms 
- it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
- it continues indefinitely 
- it has no known cure 
- it comes back or is likely to come back.
Mr H accepts that his condition has one or more of the characteristics listed in the above 
definition of a chronic condition. So it isnt in dispute that his condition is chronic, as defined 
by the policy. 
However, Mr H says that Aviva carried on with his policy knowing that his condition was 
chronic, without limiting or excluding claims until 2022. He has questioned what claims or 
developments in his health resulted in Aviva concluding in 2022 that his condition was 
chronic. 
It seems that Aviva decided in 2022 that Mr Hs condition had become chronic based on his 
claims history for that condition. As Mr H points out, Aviva could have applied the exclusion 
prior to this, perhaps even when his first claim was made. Often, its a matter of judgment for 
an insurer to decide when a condition has become chronic, taking into account the condition 
as well as the claims history. However, it seems to me that Mr H has benefitted from Aviva 
not applying the exclusion previously, as he has had claims paid which may have otherwise 
been turned down. 
I therefore find that it was reasonable for Aviva to apply the chronic condition exclusion. It 
gave Mr H sufficient notice of its intention to withdraw cover, as Id expect. 
Mr H has commented on Avivas treatment of acute flare-ups. The policy says that Aviva 
covers unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition. In other words, if Mr H 
experiences an acute flare-up, but this is not unexpected for his condition, then this would 
not be covered. If Mr H has a flare-up of his condition and is unsure if it would be covered, 
he should contact Aviva directly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman