DRN-2391845
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (BoS) paid half the 
compensation for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to his ex-wife. Mr H 
says all the compensation should have been paid to him.
What happened
In July 2014 BoS agreed to pay compensation for a mis-sold PPI attached to a mortgage. 
The mortgage was held jointly by Mr H and his ex-wife.
BoS paid £1,163.52 compensation in 2014 and was originally intending to split the 
compensation equally between Mr and Mrs H. Ive seen a letter from BoS dated 24 July 
2014 addressed to Mr H stating that it could only pay all the compensation to him if it 
received a letter of authority from Mrs H agreeing to this. My understanding is that in 2014 
Mrs H did supply such a letter and Mr H received all the £1,163.52.
In September 2019 BoS wrote again to Mr H. In its letter it stated that a review had been 
carried out and an error had occurred in 2014. This resulted in BoS paying less 
compensation than was actually due.
The letter went on to say a new calculation had been carried out and a further £4,563.74 in 
compensation was due.
The letter stated that BoS would pay 50% (£2,281.87) to Mr H and the other 50% to his      
ex-wife. 
Mr H contacted BoS to ask that it was all paid to him as had been done in 2014 but BoS 
instead paid him only £2,281.87 with the other half being paid to his ex-wife. 
Mr H says that when he and his wife divorced they had a clean break and in 2014 she had 
agreed that he should receive all the original amount offered.
Mr H wants BoS to pay him the other 50% (£2,281.87) that it sent to ex-wife.
An adjudicator from this service said BoS had acted fairly.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a PPI policy was mis-sold with a joint loan or mortgage, this service would expect the 
business to split any compensation equally regardless of whether the PPI covered one or 
both parties to the loan or mortgage. Thats because the PPI was taken out to cover a debt 
that both partners were jointly and severally liable for.
In this case the mortgage was held in joint names so Id expect BoS to split any 
compensation as it has done.
Mr H says the terms of the divorce meant that his ex-wife was not entitled to any of the PPI 
compensation and that she acknowledged this in 2014 when BoS made the original part 
payment of the compensation.
But that was four years before BoS made the updated offer so I dont think it would be 
reasonable for it to rely on any letter of authority from 2014.
Mr H says he asked BoS to contact his ex-wife before making payment to her but it didnt. 
But if BoS had contacted her and she had told BoS she didnt agree to Mr H receiving all the 
compensation, then in my view it would have acted correctly in splitting the compensation as 
it has done. 
But if as Mr H asserts she would have agreed that it should all be paid to Mr H, then it seems 
to me Mr H should be able to contact his ex-wife to explain the error and request she pass 
the other half of the compensation to him.
So taking everything into account I dont think BoS has acted unfairly and has distributed the 
compensation in the way Id expect it to. So I wont direct BoS to do anything more or 
differently than it has done.
This service wouldnt become involved in interpreting the terms of a divorce. If Mr H believes 
the terms of his divorce mean that his ex-wife has received compensation she wasnt entitled 
to then that would be a legal matter hed need to pursue.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman