DRN-3909933
The complaint
In summary, Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, prevented him from 
making a payment from his current account to purchase crypto currency. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr M tried to make a payment of £1,500 to purchase crypto currency. It 
was declined by NatWest. 
Mr M complained to NatWest. In response it explained that it had taken steps to restrict 
payments to the merchant Mr M wanted to make a payment to, because of increasing fraud 
in respect of crypto currency dealings. 
Mr Ms concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. He explained why he didnt 
think NatWest had done anything wrong. As agreement couldnt be reached the case has 
been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mr M has raised. I 
dont intend to offend him by not doing so or mean any disrespect to him in taking this 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I think I need to consider, in deciding on 
whether or not NatWest did anything wrong in declining the payment he wanted to make.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that I understand why Mr M is frustrated that he wasnt able to 
make the payment to purchase the crypto currency that he wanted to buy. He thinks he 
should be able to spend his money as he sees fit. And that isnt an unreasonable view for 
him to have. But, having considered everything Ive been provided with; Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint, as I dont believe NatWest did anything wrong when it declined his 
payment. Ill explain why.
I think it was appropriate for NatWest to have taken steps to protect Mr Ms money, if it had 
concerns that he might be a potential victim of a fraud or a scam. I understand that Mr M 
thinks that because he had made a similar payment from his account previously, and the 
business he wanted to make a payment to was registered with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), that he should have been able to make the payment. But that doesnt mean 
that NatWest was wrong to have declined the payment.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account do provide for NatWest to stop payments and 
carry out additional security checks. Specifically, section 2.2 provides if it considers the 
instruction is connected to a fraud or scam, it can refuse to act on instructions. And section 
5.3 says that it can limit the use of an account where it reasonably believes its appropriate 
to protect the account. And NatWest has explained that payments of this type arent blocked 
but are restricted. 
And taking into account the type of investment Mr M was wanting to purchase, and the 
increase in scams NatWest has said it has seen in respect of cryptocurrency transactions, I 
dont think it was wrong of NatWest to have taken steps to protect Mr M if it had concerns 
about the merchant he was making the payment to. And Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the payment in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman