DRN-3933447
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his policy 
without a proper investigation and that it was unreasonable for them to do so in the 
circumstances. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and for these 
reasons:
Advantage didnt carry out a proper investigation before cancelling Mr Bs policy. 
If they had done this and asked him to explain the reasons behind him obtaining 
quotes using different information, I think they could have satisfied themselves 
that Mr B hadnt done anything underhand or fraudulent. 
Advantage has more recently raised a concern about the information Mr B 
provided about previous claims. But they didnt raise this issue before cancelling 
his policy and give him a chance to explain why the information hed provided 
didnt match the information theyd had obtained. Advantage havent provided 
any evidence to show the one claim Mr B failed to declare would have made any 
difference to the terms they offered.
Advantages failure to carry out a proper investigation caused Mr B a great deal 
of unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
It also led to him having a policy cancelled by Advantage recorded against his 
record. I think this was unfair because Advantage didnt carry out a proper 
investigation before cancelling his policy. 
  
Putting things right
I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Bs complaint is for Advantage to pay him 
£250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Advantage should also remove any 
record of the cancellation of his policy from their records and any central databases they 
have recorded it on. Advantage should also remove any fraud markers they have placed 
against Mr Bs name.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited and order them to do what Ive set out above in the 
Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman