DRN-4190284
The complaint
Mrs O complains that a car supplied with finance from FCE Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs O was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
FCE. The agreement was for 36 months with monthly payment of £199.87 followed by an 
optional final payment of £3,939 if Mrs O wished to keep the car.
In October 2019 the agreement was modified and extended by a further 23 instalments of 
£176.81 with an optional final payment of £186.81 if Mrs O wished to keep the car.
In January 2023 Mrs O raised a complaint about the quality of the car. She said the clutch 
had been replaced for the third time and she believed that the clutch had an inherent fault. 
Mrs O asked FCE to reimburse her for the cost of the clutch replacement.
In its final response, FCE rejected Mrs Os complaint. It said there was no evidence to 
suggest that the car was faulty. It said the clutch issue was investigated in April 2020 and 
that at that time the dealership had stated that the clutch had burned out due to driver style.
Mrs O remained unhappy and complained to this service. She said she was an experienced 
driver of over 40 years and had never experienced clutch issues before.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that this service had already issued a 
final decision in relation to an earlier complaint by Mrs O relating to the replacement of the 
clutch in 2018 and 2020. The investigator said that because FCE had issued a final 
response in relation to Mrs Os complaint about the clutch being replaced in 2023, he could 
look into this issue only. The investigator concluded that although he could see from the 
invoice that the clutch had been replaced in January 2023, there was no evidence to suggest 
that the clutch needed to be replaced because of an inherent fault or underlying 
manufacturing issue. The investigator said he wouldnt be asking FCE to do anything further.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said it wasnt reasonable that a car should require a clutch 
replacement at 6000 miles and a further two replacements. She said her car had now had 
four clutch replacements and had covered only 24,500 miles. Mrs O said that the issue with 
the clutch wasnt caused by driver style because she was an experienced driver. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the relevant legislation, where a car is found to be of unsatisfactory quality in the first 
6 months, its presumed that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply unless the 
business can show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
In this case, this service has already issued a final decision about the clutch replacement in 
2018 and 2020. So Im unable to comment further in relation to that. Ill focus on the clutch 
replacement in 2023 only.
Ive reviewed the available evidence. Ive seen a job sheet dated 24 January 2023 which 
shows that the clutch was replaced.  Based on this, Im satisfied that there was a fault with 
the clutch in January 2023 which meant that it needed to be replaced. 
However, just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. The car was supplied in October 2016. Because more than 6 months 
have passed since the point of supply, and as Ive explained above, its up to Mrs O to show 
that the fault with the clutch is due to an inherent defect as opposed to general wear and 
tear.
Mrs O hasnt provided any evidence to support her assertion that the clutch has an inherent 
defect. She relies on the fact that the clutch has been replaced four times during her period 
of ownership of the car. Theres nothing on the job sheet dated 24 January 2023 which 
suggests that the clutch needed to be replaced because it had an inherent defect or because 
it wasnt sufficiently durable.
In the absence of any evidence to indicate that the clutch had an inherent defect, Im unable 
to safely conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Im 
therefore unable to ask FCE to cover the costs of the replacement clutch.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman