DRN-3181163
The complaint
Mr O is complaining about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc after Mrs M (his attorney) 
contacted them about a loan application.
What happened
Mrs M has a lasting power of attorney (PoA) for Mr Os financial affairs. The PoA was 
registered with HSBC in January 2021. At that time Mr O retained mental capacity to 
manage his affairs, so both Mr O and Mrs M were able to operate his accounts 
independently. Mr O could still apply for lending, but Mrs M couldnt apply for lending on his 
behalf.
On 14 June 2021 Mrs M contacted HSBC to ask about applying for a loan to pay for Mr Os 
care fees. Mr O was present during the call. The adviser said shed need to take Mr O 
through security. There were some details Mr O couldnt recall, but he did pass security. 
The call was passed to another adviser to continue with the application. The adviser asked if 
Mr O was able to go through the full application on the phone, and Mrs M mentioned Mr O 
had mild dementia. The adviser began the application, but Mr O wasnt able to answer 
questions about how hed repay the loan without prompting from Mrs M. The adviser ended 
the application at that point, and said hed speak to Mr Os local branch about what support 
could be offered.
HSBC called Mrs M and Mr O again, asking to speak directly to Mr O. During the call Mrs M 
told HSBC that Mr O no longer had full mental capacity. So the adviser ended the call.
Following this call, HSBC contacted Mr Os local council to ask for their assistance in 
safeguarding Mr O. They said that prior to the lending application Mrs M hadnt told them Mr 
Os mental capacity had changed and they wouldnt have known if they hadnt asked to 
speak to him. They asked the council to arrange an assessment of Mr O to confirm whether 
capacity remained, and also to review if they could help with the care costs he was paying.
In June 2021 the council contacted Mrs M and Mr O. A social worker visited, and assessed 
Mr O as lacking capacity to manage his finances. And she replied to HSBC to let them 
know.
 
Mrs M and Mr O complained about HSBCs actions and our investigator looked into the 
complaint. He didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. But Mrs M and Mr O didnt 
agree. 
They said, in summary:
Mr O has memory problems that will get progressively worse, but this doesnt mean 
he doesnt understand what is asked of him or follow conversations;
the loan was to fund Mr Os care costs and theyre now concerned about how these 
will be paid;
Mr O didnt have the mental capacity to apply for the loan, which is why Mrs M 
applied on his behalf - but the loan was for his care;
HSBC shouldnt have jumped to conclusions and contacted the council without 
informing them first; and 
HSBCs accusation is defamatory and hurtful.
The complaints now been passed to me for review and a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs M and Mr Os concern about paying for Mr Os care fees. But Mrs M has 
told HSBC, and now us, that Mr O didnt have mental capacity to manage his financial 
affairs. A social workers also decided this. So this means Mr O cant apply for a loan 
himself. And the PoA doesnt allow Mrs M to apply for a loan for him. So I dont think HSBC 
have acted unfairly by not granting a loan.
Ive listened to the calls between HSBC, and Mrs M and Mr O. And taking into account all of 
the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have decided not to 
proceed further with the loan application, and to have contacted the council to raise their 
concerns. HSBC have a duty of care to protect customers and Im satisfied they had a 
genuine safeguarding concern here that prompted their actions.
Mrs M says when the council spoke to her, they said HSBC had accused her of financial 
abuse. I can understand why the use of this language would have been very upsetting to 
Mrs M and Mr O. But HSBC didnt use the term financial abuse in their correspondence with 
the council  and theyre not responsible for how the council described things to Mrs M. 
Defamation is a legal issue and so would be better for a court to decide. But overall I dont 
think HSBC made any unreasonable accusations that would have unfairly impacted Mrs M 
and Mr O.
I fully understand why Mrs M and Mr O would have found it distressing to have been 
contacted by a social worker because a concern had been raised. And Im sympathetic to 
this. But I dont think HSBC have treated them unfairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M (on behalf 
of Mr O) to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman