DRN-3536714
The complaint
Mr N and Miss S are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc when 
they took out a mortgage with them.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr N and Miss S took out a residential mortgage with Santander, via a 
mortgage broker. Mr N and Miss S say the broker selected the incorrect product and interest 
rate when they submitted the application on their behalf to Santander. Mr N and Miss S 
identified this one working day prior to completion, and after their solicitor had received the 
funds from Santander for the house purchase.
Santander said Mr N and Miss S would need to return the funds in order for the product and 
interest rate to be reviewed and a new mortgage offer made. However, due to the proximity 
of the completion date, they said there was no guarantee this could be carried out in such a 
short timescale.
Mr N and Miss S went ahead with the purchase based on the mortgage theyd already been 
offered and accepted. They complained to Santander and said they should have done more 
during the application process or allowed them to complete, and then amend the product 
and interest rate straight after the completion.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were relying on the information, 
advice and recommendation provided by the broker during the application process and they 
hadnt been involved in this. They also said that they had sent the mortgage offer to Mr N 
and Miss S, their broker and solicitor, around three months ahead of the completion date, 
but none of the parties had noticed any errors or raised any concerns until one working day 
before completion.
Santander also said they gave Mr N and Miss S possible options when their concerns were 
raised, but ultimately, Santander had relied on the information provided by the broker, and 
didnt believe they had made any errors. 
Mr N and Miss S remained unhappy with Santander and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said the broker 
made the mortgage application to Santander and selected the product and interest rate and 
Santander wasnt involved in this. He said the offer was sent to Mr N and Miss S around 
three months prior to completion, but they only raised concerns one working day before the 
completion date.
The investigator also said he didnt think Santander acted unfairly when it said to change the 
product and interest rate, Mr N and Miss S would need to return the funds and make a new 
application for it to consider. And given how close it was to completion, there was no 
guarantee this could be done in time. He also didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by 
not recommending other products during the application process, as the broker was 
responsible for this.
Mr N and Miss S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N and Miss S took out their mortgage with Santander via a broker. Im not considering the 
actions of the broker here, or whether they made a mistake or need to do anything to put 
things right. Instead my final decision is only in relation to Santander, the provider of Mr N 
and Miss S mortgage. 
Mr N and Miss S have told this service that they have come to an agreement with their 
broker, who has agreed to cover any financial implications Mr N and Miss S incur as a result 
of the product they have. So, I have considered that any financial loss thats been incurred 
by Mr N and Miss S will now be met by the broker involved in the sale of the mortgage 
product. Nonetheless Mr N and Miss S would like to cut all ties with Santander, and they 
want any early repayment charges to be waived  due to the poor service they say 
Santander have provided them.
In March 2021 Mr N and Miss S broker sent their mortgage application to Santander and 
provided the requested supporting information shortly after. Santander reviewed the 
information and application and sent a mortgage offer to Mr N and Miss S, their broker and 
their solicitor in early April 2021.
Mr N and Miss S solicitor sent Santander the certificate of title in mid-June 2021. Santander 
sent the mortgage funds three days later so they could go ahead with the house purchase.
Mr N and Miss S contacted Santander the following day  one working day prior to 
completion. They said their broker had made a mistake when they sent Santander the 
application and that they should be on a different product and interest rate to the one the 
broker had selected. They say that they were paying a 15% deposit so needed an 85% LTV 
and associated interest, whereas they say the broker had selected the associated interest 
rate for a 10% deposit and 90% LTV. As a result of this, Mr N and Miss S hadnt been given 
a sufficiently competitive interest rate to reflect the level of deposit they were contributing to 
their house purchase. 
When Mr N and Miss S raised this with Santander, one day prior completion, they were told 
that they could return the funds and make an application via their broker for a different 
product. But due to the proximity to the completion date  less than one working day, there 
was no guarantee this could be completed in time.
Mr N and Miss S think Santander should have given them the option to keep the funds and 
proceed with the house purchase, and then to change the product and interest straight after 
completion.
I dont think Santander has acted unfairly here for several reasons. Ill explain why.
Santander sent Mr N and Miss S, their broker and solicitor the mortgage offer on 
13 April 2021. This outlined information including the product selected and associated 
interest rate. 
Therefore, Mr N and Miss S (and all parties acting on behalf of them) had this information, 
and for nearly three months prior to the completion date. But it wasnt noticed until one working day prior to completion, after Mr N and Miss S had already decided to go ahead with 
things based on the offer theyd been given, and Santander had already transferred the 
funds.
When they did raise their concerns with Santander, they said to change the product and 
interest rates, the funds would need to be returned and a new application made, which might 
need to be reviewed by the underwriters depending on the changes. However due to the 
completion proximity, there was no guarantee this could happen in time. 
Whilst I note Mr N and Miss S think Santander should have allowed them to keep the funds 
and proceed with completion and enter discussion on the product and interest immediately 
after, I dont agree Santander has acted unfairly by not allowing this to happen. 
A mortgage agreement is a legally binding agreement between Santander and Mr N and 
Miss S. Therefore, this would need to be correct and agreed by the parties prior to 
Santander loaning Mr N and Miss S the funds to purchase their home. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Santander to loan the funds and agree different terms or interest rates 
immediately after this. This is because the mortgage offer was to borrow a set amount, with 
a given loan to value ratio and a certain interest rate. If Mr N and Miss S wanted to change 
any of those variables, its reasonable that Santander is given an opportunity to consider this 
change to the application before agreeing to it.
Santander said there was no guarantee that a new application would be reviewed in time 
due to the proximity and I dont think their position on this is unreasonable. This is because, 
to change the product and interest rates and mortgage terms, the following would need to 
happen:
The funds returned by the solicitor
Broker application for a new product
Possible review by the Santander underwriting department depending on changes
A new mortgage offer and new certificate of title issued
Returning of the new acceptance and certificate of title
New funds released
All the administration associated with the above
As the completion date was less than one working day away, its unlikely the above would 
have been able to happen within a matter of several working hours. And given all parties had 
sight of the mortgage offer, which reflected the product and interest rates selected, around 
three months prior to this, I dont think Santander acted unfairly.
Mr N and Miss S also think that Santander should have done more when the broker 
submitted the application. They say Santander should have told them there were other 
products with other rates available and they should have told them this based on the 
submissions the broker made. However, Mr N and Miss S approached Santander via their 
broker, and it was the role of the broker to provide Mr N and Miss S with appropriate advice 
in relation to their mortgage and to recommend the most suitable product for them. So, I 
dont think Santander acted unfairly by following the information provided by the broker.
In addition, Santander has confirmed that whilst other products are available with different 
terms, the product and interest rate Mr N and Miss S have is also available for LTVs up to 
90%, so whether they were 85% or 90% LTV, the same product they have was available.
Mr N and Miss S say that Santander should waive any early repayment charges so they can 
move elsewhere and cut all ties with Santander. However, I dont agree Santander has acted unreasonably or made any errors for the reasons Ive outlined above. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct them to waive the early repayment charge, which was outlined to 
Mr N and Miss S in their mortgage terms, which they agreed to and went ahead with to 
complete the purchase of their property.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman