DRN-3438064
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr P took out in 2021 with 
more 2 life Ltd (M2L). The complaint is that the amount of the mortgage was reduced in 
reliance on what Mr P believes to be a flawed medical report.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr P and M2L. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr P being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr P applied for the mortgage on the advice of an intermediary. The application included a 
request for enhanced terms; thats a provision whereby a lender will consider lending more 
than it might otherwise do if the consumer is in relatively poor health and has a reduced life 
expectancy. 
M2L issued an offer, initially for around £158,000. It subsequently arranged for Mr P to 
undergo an assessment by a medical professional, and after receiving the medical 
professionals report, concluded he didnt qualify for enhanced terms and reduced the offer 
by £10,000. Mr P accepted the new offer and the mortgage completed. Mr P later 
complained, saying the reduced loan means he is unable to fulfil his financial plans, leaving 
him in a highly distressed state.
Our investigator didnt think M2L had acted unreasonable in relying on the medical 
professionals report when deciding to reduce the amount it was willing to lend, but he 
thought it should have obtained the report before issuing the offer for the higher amount. For 
wrongly raising Mr Ps expectations in this way, the investigator recommended M2L pay 
Mr P £300 compensation.
M2L agreed to settle the complaint on the investigators recommendation, but Mr P has 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review. He believes the medical 
professional wasnt equipped to carry out the assessment and that her report was flawed. 
Mr P has made a subject access request to obtain a copy of the report and asked that a 
decision on his complaint be delayed until the report is available for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for me to assess if and when I have enough evidence to decide a complaint fairly. In the 
case at hand, Im satisfied I can do that on the basis of what both parties have said and 
provided already. 
Mr P says that his whole case rests on the medical professionals report, and that hes being 
penalised for someone elses inadequacy. I dont for one moment doubt Mr Ps strength of 
feeling, but I have no remit to assess the competency or otherwise of the medical 
professional or the standard of her report. 
The medical professional is independent from M2L, and doesnt act as its agent. In these 
circumstances, M2L does not have any liability for any shortcomings there might have been 
on the part of the professional. I should also make clear that Im not implying, and it should 
not be inferred, that there were any shortcomings on the medical professionals part. Ive not 
 because I have no power to do so  considered whether the medical report was accurate 
or not. 
All I can consider here is whether M2L was reasonably entitled to reduce its offer in reliance 
on what the report said, and the simple fact is that it was. That is why theres no reason for 
me to delay deciding the complaint whilst Mr P obtains a copy of the report. Whatever it 
might say, it cant be a factor in my conclusions, as it is beyond my remit.
Im not unsympathetic towards Mr Ps current position. Ive no doubt he finds it extremely 
distressing that he hasnt been able to fulfil his financial plans. But that doesnt mean I can 
fairly order M2L to lend him the additional £10,000 hed been expecting to borrow. All I can 
do is order it to compensate him for raising his expectations wrongly on how much he could 
borrow by issuing the initial offer.
In all the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that £300 is fair. The initial offer did say 
that the mortgage amount could be changed; also Mr P had the option of asking his 
intermediary, the party responsible for ensuring the mortgage met Mr Ps needs and that he 
understood it, to explore other options before accepting the reduced mortgage from M2L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct more 2 life ltd to pay Mr P £300. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman