DRN-3477455
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved him for a loan 
which he feels wasnt affordable for him at that time.
What happened
In 2008, Mr F applied for a personal loan for £17,000 to be repaid over seven years. Mr Fs 
application was accepted, and the loan capital was provided to him by NatWest.
In 2020, Mr F raised a complaint with NatWest because he felt that he hadnt been able to 
afford that loan at that time, and that this should have been apparent to NatWest had they 
undertaken checks into Mr Fs financial position before approving the loan. NatWest looked 
at Mr Fs complaint, but they felt that because of the passage of time since the loan was 
approved that Mr F had complained too late for the complaint to be considered.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service, 
which then decided that Mr F could still refer his complaint to us in this instance, despite the 
passage of time. 
Following from this, NatWest confirmed that because the loan had been approved in 2008, 
very little information from the point of sale remained. NatWest also confirmed that they felt 
there was nothing in the information that had survived that suggested that this loan had been 
provided to Mr F irresponsibly as Mr F maintained.
One of our investigators looked at the merits of Mr Fs complaint, but they also felt that there 
wasnt enough evidence or information to reasonably suggest that the provision of the loan 
by NatWest to Mr F had been irresponsible, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
 
In this instance, I dont feel that theres sufficient information that survives from the time of 
the loan approval to enable me to fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr F couldnt have 
afforded the loan at that time and that this should have been evident to NatWest had they 
undertaken the checks into his financial position that they reasonably should have done.
For instance, NatWest havent been able to confirm what checks they undertook into Mr Fs 
financial position before approving the loan or provide details of the results of those checks. 
Given that the loan was approved in 2008, which is 14 years ago, this isnt surprising or 
unusual, and its what would be expected given that loan providers arent generally required 
to retain information surrounding loan applications for such a long period of time.
This means that I dont feel that I can fairly say that NatWest did or didnt conduct 
reasonable checks into Mr Fs financial position before approving the loan because there 
simply isnt the information or evidence available for me to do so. And this isnt something I 
would consider holding NatWest accountable for, because as explained above, it wouldnt 
generally be expected that such information from 2008 would still be available today.
It must also be remembered that the criteria for assessing creditworthiness and affordability 
were different in 2008 to how those criteria are structured today. This means that any 
assessment of whether NatWest lent to Mr F affordably or not, if it could be fairly performed, 
would have to be in consideration of the criteria that were applicable at that time.
Finally, the information that is available, which includes that Mr F didnt miss any payments 
on the loan until he made larger payments to first reduce and then settle the loan early in 
February 2010, doesnt appear to strongly suggest that Mr F was in financial difficulty at the 
time of the loan approval or in the months immediately after it. 
Ultimately here, as explained above, I dont feel that it can be fairly or reasonably confirmed 
that NatWest did lend irresponsibly to Mr F in 2008. And given the impartial nature of this 
service, I dont feel that I can uphold this complaint in Mr Fs favour as he would like, and this 
is because the absence of information due to the passage of time means that there simply 
isnt a fair and compelling reason for me to be able to impartially do so.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting here, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman