DRN-3244498
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Ageas include its agents.  
What happened
On 16 January 2020 Mrs and Mr B bought a single trip travel insurance policy for a trip 
abroad from 16 to 23 March 2020. The insurer was Ageas. They paid an additional premium 
for cover for Mr Bs medical condition.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic.
In a statement on 16 March 2020 the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop 
non-essential contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. This advice was stated 
to be particularly important for those with serious health conditions.
Mr B had previously had an organ transplant and he takes medication to suppress his 
immune system to prevent rejection of the organ so he says he was at very high risk if he 
caught Covid-19. Mrs and Mr B say that due to the government advice for him to shield and 
the impending government restrictions on travel they didnt go on holiday. They claimed on 
the policy.
Ageas declined the claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover cancellation of a trip in 
Mrs and Mr Bs circumstances.
Mrs and Mr B complained to us. They said the policy terms prevented Mr B from travelling 
against medical advice so it was unfair for Ageas not to cover the claim.
Our investigator said Ageas fairly declined the claim. The policy covered cancellation due to 
Mr B being subject to quarantine but our investigator thought didnt that mean shielding or 
self isolation was covered.  
Mrs and Mr B disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules say Ageas should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
Im intending to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers non-refundable travel and accommodation costs (up to the policy limit) 
that Mrs and Mr B paid or contracted to pay if they cancel before the start of a trip because 
of specific listed events. One of listed insured events is:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip
Ive considered whether Mr B could be said to have been subject to quarantine. Theres no 
policy definition of quarantine and in those circumstances we generally look to apply the 
common meaning and understanding of a word, as well as taking into account the context in 
which the word is used within the policy. Ive looked at various dictionary definitions of 
quarantine which include:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of 
disease.
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or travel 
freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
a state of enforced isolation.
So I think the common meaning and understanding of quarantine is broad enough to 
include Mr Bs situation of enforced isolation to try to prevent him from catching Covid-19.
Ive seen the NHSs letter to Mr B advising him to stay at home for 12 weeks with minimal 
contact with others due to him being classed as extremely vulnerable to Covid-19. I think 
thats evidence he was in effect in enforced isolation.
The NHS letter is dated 21 March 2020, so after Mrs and Mr B were due to travel on 
16 March. But the government announcement on 16 March 2020 said that in addition to 
everyone stopping non-essential contact and all unnecessary travel that in a few days those 
with the most serious health concerns would be asked to shield from social contact for 
around 12 weeks. I think Mr B reasonably understood that his health condition meant he was 
at very high risk from Covid-19 and he would fall into the category of a person being asked 
to isolate when he decided not to travel. His understanding was correct as the NHS letter 
lists the conditions and diseases considered to be very high risk and solid organ transplant 
recipients, which is Mr B, is the first condition on the list.
As I think Mr Bs circumstances meant he was in effect subject to quarantine I think the 
cancellation claim is covered by the policy terms.
Even if I thought Mr Bs circumstances didnt mean he was subject to quarantine under the 
policy terms, I still wouldnt think it fair and reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. I say 
that because page one of the policy states:
You must not travel against medical advice (or would be travelling against medical 
advice had you sought medical advice prior to travel).
Given Mr Bs medical circumstances, and the content of the NHS letter to him, Im satisfied 
he would have been travelling abroad against medical advice. I think Mr B could reasonably 
understand that Ageas may have refused to cover him if they had travelled and claimed. 
I think that leaves Mrs and Mr B in an unfair position of not being covered if they cancelled 
due to Mr B having to isolate because of his declared medical condition but also not being 
covered if they had travelled because of the medical advice to isolate and not travel because 
of his declared condition.
In the particular circumstances of this case I think the fair outcome is for Ageas to pay the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits and subject to the 
applicable excess. Interest should be added as Ive detailed below.For completeness, from the evidence Ive seen the costs claimed were non-refundable. The 
travel providers letter says Mrs and Mr B werent refunded the cost. Although it appears to 
be a package holiday, as Mrs and Mr B cancelled the holiday it doesnt appear that the travel 
provider has any statutory responsibility to refund the cancellation cost.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr B accepted my provisional decision.
Ageas didnt accept. It said a trip cancellation due to Covid-19 wasnt a specific reason listed 
on the policy and wed agreed with that point on some cases, which it referred to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas response hasnt changed my mind and I uphold this complaint. We make decisions 
about whats a fair and reasonable outcome on the individual circumstances of a case. The 
cases Ageas referred to dont have the same circumstances as this case. 
The policy covers cancellation of a trip due to Mrs and/or Mr B being subject to quarantine. 
Ive explained above why I consider Mr B was subject to quarantine, that caused the 
cancellation. Im satisfied the claim is covered by the policy terms.
Ive also explained above why, even if I thought the claim didnt fall within one of specific 
reasons for cancellation listed on the policy, in these circumstances I still wouldnt think it fair 
and reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim.
Putting things right
Ageas must pay Mrs and Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions and 
limits, less applicable excess, plus interest as Ive detailed below.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, conditions and limits, less applicable excess. Interest* must be added at 8% 
simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman