DRN-3781560
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly registered a fraud marker against him with 
CIFAS  a fraud prevention agency.
What happened
Mr A explained that at the time of the loan application, he gave an accurate picture about his 
personal situation to Metro. The loan was to pay for emergency repairs to his vehicle which 
was required for work. 
A few days after receiving the loan, Mr As partner unfortunately lost her job which impacted 
his ability to repay the loan as agreed. 
Mr A advised Metro about the change in his familys circumstances, informing them that he 
was in financial difficulties. He approached a debt management charity to help him with his 
finances. Mr A missed the first months repayment and was advised to set up a different form 
of repayment plan. Mr A agreed to this and started to repay the loan back to Metro. 
Later, Metro considered that Mr A had deliberately tried to evade payment of his loan and 
registered an Evasion of Payments marker against him with CIFAS. Metro believed that Mr 
As notification about his partners job loss was very close to the loan being granted and 
together with Mr As engagement with a debt management charity  that he must have 
known about his circumstances at the time of the loan. They also questioned why he didnt 
return the loan once he was aware he'd have difficulties repaying it following the loss of an 
income. 
Metro explained that their loan criteria didnt take family income into account, so the loss of 
his partners income shouldnt have impacted his ability to repay it. 
Mr A complained about Metros action towards him and Metro again looked into the matter 
but didnt change their position. Mr A then brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our 
investigators. He thought that Metro didnt have sufficient evidence to support their marker. 
He also remarked that Mr A had paid been repaying the loan and recommended that the 
marker be removed. Also that Metro pay Mr A £300 for the stress caused to him at a time 
when he was already struggling with family finances. 
Metro disagreed and requested a further review of the complaint which has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A suffered a reduction in his familys income after his partner lost her job. This appeared 
to be around the time that the loan for the repairs to his vehicle was made. From what I can 
see, Mr A kept Metro informed about his circumstances and arranged to enter a repayment 
plan. I understand he continued to repay the loan back to Metro under the terms of a 
managed agreement. 
Theres no evidence that Ive seen that Mr A tried to obtain the loan by manipulating his 
circumstances. I asked Mr A why he didnt pay the loan back straight away when he knew 
his circumstances were changing. He explained that he couldnt repay it because it was 
used as soon as he received it to pay for emergency repairs to his vehicle, which seems a 
reasonable explanation for why it wasnt returned. 
I can understand why Metro thought the timing was suspicious, based on the almost 
immediate notice by Mr A about his change of circumstances. But, Mr A has explained that 
he was unaware about his partners job issue when he made the loan application and kept 
Metro updated throughout. He did miss the first payment back to them, but soon after 
entered a formal repayment plan. What this means here is that it would be hard for Metro to 
argue that Mr A never had any intention to repay the loan.
Whilst I appreciate Metro have said the loan was based on Mr As personal situation and not 
that of his family, the loss of an income is likely to impact the family finances. At the time of 
the loan, Mr A has explained that he wasnt aware of the upcoming loss of an income, so I 
dont think that his situation or that assessed by Metro at the time could have foreseen the 
changes. I dont doubt that the added strain on Mr As income put him in the position where 
he had to choose how to repay any outstanding debts hed accrued.  
If Mr A had failed to repay Metro or keep them informed, then I would have a different 
opinion about this case. But, thats not what the evidence presents here. When Ive reviewed 
Mr As evidence, it looks like, on balance, that Mr A and his family were experiencing very 
difficult circumstances  rather than a deliberate attempt to defraud Metro. 
Metro were required to meet a high bar before they lodged the marker with CIFAS because 
this can have a significant impact on the individual. I dont think that Metro were able to do 
that here and the marker should now be removed. 
The investigator recommended a payment be made to Mr A of £300. I think this was a 
reasonable amount to recognise the unnecessary stress and worry caused by Metros 
handling of this issue. Mr A was dealing with a difficult situation at the time and Metro added 
to it by their handling of this issue.
Putting things right
Metro should now remove the CIFAS marker and make a payment of £300 to Mr A.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC and theyre instructed to settle this 
complaint as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman