DRN-3165303
The complaint
Mrs U is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim she made on her home 
insurance policy for a problem with her underground drainage system.
Reference to Mrs U includes her representative.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs U got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim after she discovered damage to 
her underground drainage system. A part within the septic tank had broken off, the 
septic tank wall had deteriorated, and connecting pipework was damaged.
Fairmead accepted the damage, apart from the tank wall, was covered by the policy.
It said it wouldnt carry out a repair because the system didnt comply with relevant 
standards and should have been upgraded previously. It didnt think the cost of the 
upgrade was covered by the policy. It offered Mrs U the cash equivalent of the cost to 
Fairmead of carrying out repairs to the insured damage, less the excess.
Mrs U said it would cost significantly more than the amount offered by Fairmead to 
ensure the system met current standards. She thought this work was the only way to 
put the damage right and was covered by the policy.
Our investigator was satisfied Fairmead had acted fairly. He thought Mrs U had been 
responsible for the upgrade prior to the claim. So, he wasnt persuaded it would be 
fair for Fairmead to pay for the upgrade now.
 Mrs U disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers accidental breakage of the septic tank and connecting underground 
pipework. 
Fairmead said the gradual deterioration of the mortar in the tank wall didnt amount to 
accidental breakage and wasnt covered by the policy.  For damage to amount to accidental 
breakage it must, amongst other things, be sudden. Im not persuaded gradual mortar 
deterioration, by its nature, is likely to have been sudden. So, Im satisfied Fairmead has 
acted fairly on this point.
Fairmead accepts the broken part of the tank and the damage to the pipework has been 
caused by accidental breakage and is therefore covered by the policy. So, I dont need to 
consider this further. The main dispute is about how to settle the claim for this damage. 
Fairmead has offered to pay the cost of repairing this damage, less the excess, which comes 
to around £6,500.
Fairmead said systems like Mrs Us  where waste from a septic tank discharges into a 
watercourse  were subject to Environment Agency rules which required an upgrade to a 
sewage treatment plant. Mrs U agreed with this. She has a quote for around £25,000 to 
carry out this work. She thought it would be fair for Fairmead to pay for the upgrade for two 
main reasons:
It was the only way to put the insured damage right
It was covered by a separate part of the policy
Fairmead said the rules meant Mrs U should have upgraded the system before 2020  which 
meant she should have upgraded it prior to making the claim in 2021. Ive checked the rules 
and I agree this is the case. Mrs U says the Environment Agency guidance means she has 
more time to complete the work. That may be the case, but I dont think that means 
Fairmead is responsible for the cost of the upgrade. Ill explain why.
Drainage experts acting for both parties broadly agree that the appropriate course of action 
to put this problem right is to install a treatment plant to comply with the rules. Whilst a repair 
is technically possible and would put right the damage, it wouldnt comply with the rules. And 
would still leave Mrs U facing a cost of £25,000 to install a treatment plant. 
I think the central question to this dispute is: why does the system need to be upgraded  
and is that a direct result of the insured problem? Put simply, I must decide if Fairmead 
should pay for the cost of upgrading the system.
The need for the upgrade was brought about by the rules introduced in 2015. From that time, 
Mrs U would have been required to carry out the upgrade to her drainage system sooner or 
later. That requirement existed prior to the damage being discovered  and regardless of 
whether any damage happened. This means Mrs U wouldve always needed to have 
incurred these upgrade costs.
The recent damage may have highlighted to Mrs U that she must upgrade the system  and 
it may mean she has a more pressing need to do so in order to restore the drainage system 
to full working order. But the recent damage hasnt caused the need to upgrade. For that 
reason, Im not persuaded it would be fair for Fairmead to pay for it.
As a result, I can understand why Fairmead has offered a cash settlement, rather than a 
repair in this case. And its settlement would enable Mrs U to put the money toward the 
overall cost involved in upgrading the system.
Mrs U has pointed to a term of the policy which says that Fairmead will pay for costs 
incurred solely because of the need to comply with statutory requirements. It also says costs 
must be incurred with Fairmeads consent when making good insured damage. Fairmead 
hasnt consented. And for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that was reasonable.
Had these costs arisen as a direct result of the insured damage, I may have seen things 
differently. But because Mrs U had a responsibility to upgrade the system long before the 
claim was made  and would have had that responsibility even if there were no damage  
Im satisfied Fairmead has acted fairly when offering the cash settlement.
Mrs U hasnt challenged the amount of the cash settlement offer or the work involved. If she 
does, Fairmead should consider whether that changes its offer.My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman