DRN-3644892
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide clear information when she 
applied for an extension to a covid-related payment deferral. As a result, her account has 
been passed to a debt collection agency and adverse data recorded on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss B took out a £20,000 with Barclays in December 2019. The monthly contractual 
repayment was £545.72.
Miss B financial situation was negatively impacted due to the pandemic. She contacted 
Barclays for support with her loan repayments in August 2020. Barclays provided a covid-
related three-month payment deferral in line with temporary guidance issued by                  
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) because of the pandemic. 
When the payment deferral was due to end in November 2020, Miss Bs finances were still 
impacted by the pandemic, so she asked Barclays for further support. Miss B says that a 
further payment deferral was agreed and that she expected her monthly repayments to start 
again (via direct debit) in April 2021. But her April and May payments werent collected. 
Miss B says she called Barclays to re-set her direct debit and a payment was taken in        
June 2021, so she thought everything was back on track. But she then received a letter from 
a debt collection agent. She contacted Barclays and was told that due to missing three 
monthly payments her account had been defaulted and sold to a debt collection agent. 
Unhappy with the action taken by Barclays, she raised a complaint.
Barclays said that Miss B had entered a Nil Informal Arrangement (NIA) when she called in 
November 2020 and the terms of this were confirmed in a letter dated 25 November 2020. 
And as no payment had been made  in line with the information provided during the call 
and the subsequent the letter, a default notice had been issued on 6 May 2021. It added that 
the payment Miss B made in June 2021 didnt meet the requirements set out in the default 
notice, so the account had been defaulted and passed to a debt recovery agent. So, it didnt 
agree it had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with Barclays response Miss B referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. But she didnt uphold the complaint. 
She noted that the FCAs guidance around payment deferrals were intended for customers 
experiencing short-term financial problems. And that Barclays had declined to offer Miss B a 
further covid payment deferral period in November 2020 as Miss Bs income and 
expenditure situation indicated more long-term financial problems.  
She added that, as an alternative, Barclays agreed a NIA with Miss B. And that it had 
explained the details of this arrangement in a letter it had sent her. So, overall, she didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Miss B disagreed with this outcome. In summary she said that Barclays had a duty to 
provide clear information and act fairly. But she felt Barclays had mis-led her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Bs complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Miss B 
will be disappointed as I can see how strongly she feels about this matter. But I can only 
uphold Miss Bs complaint if I found that Barclays had done something wrong or treated her 
unfairly. And I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Barclays has confirmed that Miss Bs loan repayments were update until August 2020. And 
its not in dispute that Barclays provided Miss B with a three-month covid-related payment 
deferral in line with the temporary Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in place at 
the time. So, Im satisfied that Barclays treated Miss B fairly at this point.
Miss B says she was told to ignore correspondence such as arrears letters during this time. 
And I accept that she was most likely told this in August 2020. These were exceptional times 
and the FCA had introduced temporary measures to support borrowers. So, while lenders 
were still required to send out arrears letters, lenders were told not to take any recovery 
action during a covid-related deferral period. And I havent seen anything that makes me 
think Barclays did take any recovery action during the three-month covid-related payment 
deferral it approved for Miss B. So, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong here.
Miss B says she understood that a further three-month covid-related payment deferral had 
been agreed from November 2020. And, as such, she continued to ignore further letters 
about the status of her loan account. But Barclays says it declined a further covid-related 
payment deferral. And it agreed an alternative arrangement as it had concluded Miss Bs 
financial problems werent short-term.  
I think its important to explain at this point that while the FCAs guidance said a lender could 
agree covid-related payment deferrals up to a maximum of six months (taken in two three- 
month blocks), payment deferrals were intended for borrowers whose financial difficulties 
were short-term i.e. it was clear that the borrower would be able to recommence their 
contractual payments at the end of the additional three months. So, Im satisfied that 
Barclays wasnt required to automatically agree a further covid-related payment deferral if it 
didnt think Miss B would be able to recommence her contractual payment within the next 
three months. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call between Miss B and Barclays financial assistance 
team in November 2020. And Im satisfied  given the information Miss B provided about her 
financial situation, that Barclays correctly identified that Miss B had an income deficit of over 
£300 per month. Given the wider circumstances due to the pandemic, Miss Bs income 
deficit and the amount of her loan repayment, Im persuaded that Barclays didnt do anything 
wrong when it didnt approve a further covid-related payment deferral as at the time it didnt 
look like Miss Bs financial situation was short-term. But where a covid-related payment deferral wasnt suitable, the FCA guidance said a lender 
could offer other tailored support. In Miss Bs case, Barclays offered a NIA. This meant     
Miss B wasnt required to make payments and - in addition, interest was suspended (this is 
not the case with a covid-related payment deferral). Its not for this service to decide what 
Barclays offer of tailored support should look like. But Im satisfied that the NIA is in keeping 
with the types of remedies wed expect a lender to offer when a consumer is in financial 
difficulty. So, here I find Barclays treated Miss B fairly.
But Miss B says Barclays didnt provide clear information and mis-led her. So, Ive gone on 
to consider if Barclays did enough to make Miss B aware that the covid-related payment 
deferral wasnt being extended and the terms and the impact of the NIA. 
Miss B applied for the further covid-payment deferral on-line. Barclays says this was 
declined. And Ive heard - in the call from November 2020, that Miss B says the reason for 
her call was because her on-line request had been declined. And Barclays confirmed this, 
adding that the reason for the decline was because Miss Bs loan was only 12 months old, 
and she had missed payments during that time. So, Im satisfied Barclays made it clear that 
Miss Bs request for a further covid-payment deferral had been declined.
Im also satisfied that Barclays explained during the call that it was offering Miss B a NIA. 
And that this meant no payments would be required and interest was being suspended. In 
addition, Ive found that towards the end of the call Barclays clearly explained that Miss Bs 
direct debit would be cancelled and that if no further payments were made a default notice 
would be issued after three months. It also explained the consequences of this. Ive also 
seen that Barclays sent Miss B letters setting out this information. 
I know Miss B says she was told to ignore any letters she received. And, as mentioned 
earlier, I accept this was the case in August 2020. But Ive havent seen anything that would 
make me think Barclays told Miss B to ignore the correspondence following the call in 
November. Indeed, in the call, Ive found that Barclays confirmed that a letter confirming the 
NIA terms would be sent to her. Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays did enough to make Miss 
B aware of the terms of the NIA and the consequences if no payments were received after 
three months. So, I dont agree that Barclays mis-led Miss B. 
 
I can see that Miss B made a payment in June 2021. But, by this time, the payment she 
made wasnt enough to prevent the default from being registered as the default notice set 
out that all the arrears needed to be cleared. The terms of Miss Bs account make 
provisional for Barclays to pass the account to a third-party debt collection agency in these 
circumstances. And Barclays is obliged to provide accurate information about the conduct of 
an account to the credit reference agencies (CRA). So, I dont find that Barclays did anything 
wrong here. 
I appreciate that Miss Bs financial situation was impacted by the pandemic  something 
outside of her control, and that she may now be in better financial position. And having a 
default registered on her credit file will have a long-term impact on her ability to obtain further 
credit. But for the reasons given above, I havent found that Barclays did anything wrong or 
treated Miss B unfairly during the time she was in financial difficulty. So, Im not able to tell 
Barclays to remove the default on her credit file, recall the account from the third-party debt 
collection agent or pay compensation (in the form of an interest refund) as she has 
requested.Miss B has also said that Barclays should refund the payment she made in June 2021. But 
as this payment was made to reduce the balance outstanding, I see no reason to tell 
Barclays to refund this payment to her. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman