DRN-4081243
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr P took out in May 2007. The loan was originally 
taken out with a business I will call F, and ownership of the loan was passed to Elderbridge 
Limited in January 2016. Mr P is unhappy that he still owes so much on the loan.
What happened
On 30 May 2007 Mr P took out a secured loan with F. He borrowed around £49,000 (which 
included a sum of around £8,000 for a payment protection insurance policy) over a period of 
25 years. 
The first payment was missed on the account in June 2008, with the account then remaining 
in arrears from June 2009 until October 2021.
Mr P made a claim on the linked payment protection insurance policy under which some 
payments were made to the loan account from January 2009.
In February 2010 F suppressed the interest on the account, at which time the balance stood 
at around £50,700.
In May 2010 F obtained a suspended possession order due to the level of arrears on the 
account. The order was that Mr P was to pay his contractual monthly instalment plus £75.18 
each month. Those payments werent met in full each month until October 2011. The last 
payment in that sequence was made in October 2012, with no payments being made in 
November or December 2012. 
From January 2013 Mr P started paying £373 a month, with those payments maintained until 
the payment in November 2021 redeemed the main balance of the mortgage. As that had 
been repaid, Elderbridge moved the suppressed interest of around £23,000 across to the 
main account so Mr P could start making payments to that. His payments of £373 a month 
continued until August 2022, after which Mr P stopped making payments.
In November 2022 Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our Investigators looked at it but she didnt think the main thrust of it should be upheld, 
although she did feel Elderbridge should pay £200 compensation for not making things clear 
to Mr P. Elderbridge agreed to that. Mr P disagreed with the Investigators findings and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not making any findings here about the decision by F to suppress interest on the 
account, Ill merely be explaining how it works. I can only consider the complaint against 
Elderbridge in relation to what happened after it took over the loan in January 2016.
Mr P had been struggling to pay his loan. One particular thing that was done to help him was 
to stop adding interest onto the main loan account as otherwise hed be paying interest on 
interest - known as compound interest - if he didnt keep up his payments. Instead F carried 
on calculating the interest in the background, as it was still due, but as it wasnt applied to 
the main account it didnt attract interest itself. This is known as simple interest. Overall this 
decision is referred to as suppressing the interest.
In effect, in order to prevent interest accruing on unpaid interest, F ring-fenced the interest 
in a separate account, so that it didnt attract further compound interest. This also meant any 
payments Mr P made after that point went towards reducing his arrears, and then repaying 
the capital. Ultimately, it meant Mr P was charged less interest than he would have been 
otherwise.
Thats because the interest is charged on the outstanding balance in the main account. Had 
the interest been accruing in the main account as it normally would (and as it was until F 
suppressed the interest in February 2010) the balance in Mr Ps main account would only 
have been reducing by the difference between the monthly interest and the amount Mr P 
had paid that month. That means the interest calculation for the following month would be 
based on a higher balance. Instead, all of Mr Ps payments were being used to reduce the 
balance in the main account so the balance in that account was reducing at a much faster 
rate than it normally would, meaning less interest was then charged each month going 
forward.
But because the interest was still due, it couldnt simply be written off or ignored, instead the 
interest due each month was included in a separate account (which was non-interest 
bearing, so interest wasnt being charged on that interest) and once the main account 
balance was cleared in November 2021 that sum was moved across for Mr P to start making 
payments towards it. No interest has been charged on that balance since November 2021, 
so all payments Mr P makes go towards clearing what is left of his loan (and to be clear, this 
sum does form part of his loan).
Mr P could never have been in the position that since February 2010 hed have been 
charged absolutely no interest, so his account could never have been fully cleared in 
November 2021 based on the payments Mr P has made over the years.
The original loan term ran until 2032 and, based on the original contract, to repay it before 
then Mr P would have needed to have not had arrears over such a long term and instead to 
have been making overpayments. That clearly wasnt the case here. That said, by the 
account being changed as it was in February 2010 so the interest was accrued in the 
separate account, I understand Mr P was on track to repay his loan before 2032 if hed 
continued to make the £373 a month payments hed been making until August 2022. Mr P 
could never have been in that situation had F not taken the action it did, and so Im satisfied 
the action Elderbridge took in continuing with that arrangement was fair and reasonable as it 
has left Mr P in a better position financially overall.
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen here as Mr P had been in arrears to the extent that F obtained a suspended 
possession order in 2010. The contract Mr P entered into required each contractual monthly 
payment to be made in full and on time in the month it was due. As interest is constantly 
being charged this means its not as simple as making up a missed payment, theres also 
the extra interest incurred for every day that payment is overdue. This interest can add up 
significantly as for each delayed payment extra interest will be charged on the unpaid capital 
for every day it is late.We dont provide an auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or 
incorrect since Elderbridge took over the loan (which, as I said above, is all Im considering 
here). Of course, its open to Mr P to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified 
professional to audit his account, but that would have to be at his expense.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded the decision by Elderbridge to continue to 
suppress the interest and then to ask Mr P to pay it was unreasonable. Ultimately, it meant 
Mr P was charged less interest than he would have been otherwise. And if full and clear 
information had been given, Mr P would have been told there was the separate supressed 
interest account. He could never have been in the position where he doesnt have to repay 
that amount.
For the reasons Ive already explained, I think the suppression of the interest meant Mr P 
was treated fairly, as it meant he was charged less interest than he would otherwise have 
been. Having reviewed the transaction history and the contact notes, I dont think Mr P would 
have been able to pay more than he was already paying towards his loan, so Im not 
persuaded that he has been financially disadvantaged by being unaware of the suppressed 
interest.
But I agree with our Investigator that it would have been a shock to Mr P to find out so late 
on that he owed much more than he was expecting. Our Investigator has recommended that 
Elderbridge should pay Mr P £200 compensation in recognition of this upset. Having 
considered everything very carefully, I find that sum to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Elderbridge Limited to pay £200 compensation to Mr P for 
his complaint about the suppressed interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman