DRN-2967516
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that ReAssure Limited split his pension into separate parts after it was 
transferred from another business.
What happened
Mr C has a stakeholder pension that was set up with another pension provider. The pension 
consisted of one part, into which both Mr C and his employer made contributions.
In August 2020, Mr Cs existing pension provider transferred all of its business to ReAssure. 
This transfer, completed under Part VII of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, was 
approved by the High Court.
Shortly after taking over as Mr Cs pension provider, ReAssure wrote to him explaining that 
his pension would be separated into different parts. This was because contributions were 
coming from separate sources and its systems meant it needed to separate these. So, 
moving forward, the contributions from his employer would go into one part, with the 
contributions Mr C made going into another part. And each part would have a distinct 
reference number.
Mr C complained to ReAssure. He said that neither ReAssure nor his previous provider had 
said this would happen as part of the transfer of business and he had in fact been told there 
would be no change to how his pension was operated. He said he didnt want the pension to 
be separated into different parts so asked that ReAssure confirm this would not happen. 
Mr C also mentioned he hadnt been sent the information he needed in order to review his 
pension online now that it had moved to ReAssure.
ReAssure said the pension being separated into parts based on the contribution source 
didnt disadvantage Mr C or alter the terms of his policy. And this was how it had chosen to 
operate the pensions transferred over from his previous provider. So, it said it didnt intend to 
change this. It provided details of how Mr C could transfer his pension to another provider if 
he remained unhappy. In relation to online access, ReAssure acknowledged it hadnt sent 
Mr C the information he needed. It apologised for this, arranged for the relevant information 
to be sent and paid him £75 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr C asked our service to consider his complaint. One of our Investigators did so. He didnt 
think ReAssure had acted unfairly by separating Mr Cs pension as it had, and thought it was 
entitled to decide how to administer the policy in line with its processes. And as this hadnt 
caused Mr C a loss, he didnt think ReAssure needed to do anything further. He also felt the 
£75 it had paid for the delay in sending Mr C information to view his pension online was fair. 
Mr C said he didnt think it was fair that hed been told there would be no change to how the 
pension was run, but this hadnt turned out to be the case. So, he asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed again. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has encountered additional problems in respect of how ReAssure has administered his 
pension, since he complained about the decision to separate it into different parts. The 
additional issues  around contributions not being applied and a delay in acting on his 
request to transfer his pension  are being considered separately by our service. So, Ill 
make no further comment on these issues here and my decision will just look at Mr Cs initial 
complaint  about the decision to split his pension and the delay in him being given his 
online credentials.
Mr C is unhappy with how ReAssure has chosen to administer his policy  specifically 
separating it into different parts based on the contribution source.
ReAssure has explained that it has chosen to administer Mr Cs pension this way because of 
limitations to its systems. Our service is not a regulator and I cant require ReAssure to 
change the way it operates its business, its processes or the systems it uses. And it doesnt 
appear that Mr C is being treated differently to other policy holders in a similar position. So, I 
dont think ReAssure has acted unfairly.
I also havent seen anything to indicate that this decision by ReAssure has caused Mr C a 
loss or disadvantaged him. I understand that, while separated into component parts, the total 
value of Mr Cs pension hasnt been impacted, nor has the way the funds were invested. And 
I havent seen anything that indicates this structure has resulted in charges applied to the 
pension being increased. And indeed, ReAssure has said the terms of the pension policy 
remain unchanged.
Mr C has said neither ReAssure or his previous provider explained that this change would 
take place  and in fact said there wouldnt be any changes to how his pension operated. I 
agree that it wouldve been better if this had been set out in advance. And I can understand 
Mr Cs frustration. But as Ive said, aside from the pension value being separated into 
different parts, I dont think his pension as a whole is being operated differently. And, Im 
also conscious that, the nature of the transfer of business meant that Mr C could not have 
opted out of his pension being moved to ReAssure. 
Taking all of this into account, while I understand Mr C is unhappy, I dont think ReAssure 
has acted unreasonably by making this change.
Turning to Mr Cs access to ReAssures online portal, it acknowledged that there was a 
delay in providing access to customers transferring over from his previous provider. 
ReAssure accepted that this wouldve meant Mr C did not have the option to manage his 
pension as he wouldve liked. So, it paid Mr C £75 for the inconvenience caused and 
arranged to send him the relevant credentials in November 2020.
As ReAssure noted, I dont doubt it was frustrating for Mr C not to have immediate access to 
an online portal  particularly as he had previously had this with his existing pension 
provider. But given the number of customers that moved over to ReAssure, and the 
administrative work that was then required, I do understand why this took some time. And as 
I havent seen anything to suggest this caused Mr C a loss, in the circumstances I think what 
reassure has already done to put this right is fair. So, I dont require it to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman