DRN-3236179
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M and I was very sorry to hear about the problems hes been 
having, but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr M. The van here was 
about seven years old and had already completed about 94,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
I can see that Moneybarn tried to establish whether the faults with the van had been present 
at the point of supply. Their system notes show they asked Mr M for permission to arrange 
an independent inspection of the vehicle in May and June 2020. 
Whilst I understand how disappointing it would be for Mr M to have experienced these 
problems so soon after collecting the van I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to 
want to conduct further investigations. They were only responsible for defects that were 
present or developing when the van was supplied and there appeared to be evidence that 
the failure was caused by an unsatisfactory repair.
Moneybarn made their initial assessment of liability based on the information they had 
available to them, as they hadnt been given permission by Mr M to organise an independent 
inspection. The dealership had suggested that Mr M had made adaptations that had starved 
the engine of water and on that basis I can understand Moneybarns position that they 
thought the head gasket would likely have failed because of this.
Moneybarn didnt support Mr Ms claim that the tyres or brakes were deficient when supplied 
either. They based that opinion on the fact the van had passed an MOT the day before it 
was supplied and with no advisories. I think that was a reasonable conclusion to reach. I 
think its likely the tyres and brakes were all of a roadworthy standard when supplied, as the 
MOT said so. 
Mr M also complained that the jack hadnt been supplied with the van. The independent 
inspector noted a jack was on the front seat of the van when he completed his inspection, so 
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence the jack wasnt supplied. And, even if Im 
wrong about that, I think the presence of the jack would have been something that would 
have been clearly noticeable when Mr M looked at the van prior to agreeing to the deal; I 
think its reasonable to suggest Mr M therefore accepted the van in that condition.
A limited independent inspection of the van was arranged after Mr M got in touch with this 
service. The inspector couldnt access the van because the keys werent available. He noted 
that a new hose and retaining clip had been fitted to the vans water pump. On that basis, 
and when considering the report from the dealership that the van had been starved of water, 
he was persuaded it was therefore most likely the vans coolant system had been 
compromised at some point after supply. I am therefore persuaded by his expert opinion that 
there is insufficient evidence this van was of unsatisfactory quality.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman