DRN-3806472
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited settled her claim on her 
car insurance following an accident. 
What happened
Mrs D had car insurance with Advantage. In December 2020 she was involved in an 
accident when another vehicle collided with hers when she was leaving a roundabout. She 
made a claim on the insurance. However Advantage said there wasnt enough evidence to 
say that the third party driver was at fault and therefore decided to settle it on a 50/50 basis. 
This meant Mrs D lost her no claims discount and had to pay higher premiums at renewal.
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and made a complaint. She said that Advantage had ignored 
the photographs she had provided which showed that she wasnt at fault. Advantage didnt 
uphold her complaint so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
she thought Advantage hadnt fairly considered the evidence and therefore hadnt acted 
fairly by recording the accident as a fault claim. She thought it should record it as non fault, 
restore Mrs Ds no claims bonus and pay her £300 to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Advantaged reviewed the evidence again and agreed the claim should be registered as 
non-fault. It therefore agreed to our investigators recommendations.
However Mrs D didnt think our investigator went far enough. She said she had paid 
increased premiums while the claim was registered as fault and this should be refunded. 
And it wasnt fair that she had to wait until the matter had been settled before the claim was 
changed to non-fault. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds policy contains a term that allows Advantage to take over the defence and 
settlement of a claim where it sees fit. This is a term that appears in most car insurance 
policies and it means the insurer may reach a decision that the policyholder disagrees with 
or it may choose not to pursue its costs from the other side. Its my role to consider if it has 
acted fairly and reasonably when making its decision on how to settle the claim, based on 
the available evidence. 
Since the complaint has come to this service, Advantage has agreed that its initial claim 
decision wasnt reasonable. And has agreed the claim should be registered as non-fault. 
From looking at the photographs provided by Mrs D, and the layout of the road where the 
accident took place, I agree this is a fair decision. As the images support Mrs Ds account 
that she remained in the correct lane when exiting the roundabout and the third party 
changed lanes and consequentially drove into the front of her car. So I agree that Advantage 
should register the claim as non-fault.  
Advantages initial decision to register the claim as fault has caused Mrs D distress and 
inconvenience. She has had to continually contact it to try and get it to consider the 
photographs she provided as part of the evidence. And she has been left with a fault claim 
on her record for a long time which has made purchasing insurance difficult and more costly. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that Advantage should pay Mrs D £300 compensation 
to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
Mrs D has said that during the time the claim has been ongoing she has had to pay a higher 
premium for her policy. And she thinks Advantage should refund the difference in the 
amount she has paid due to having a fault claim registered against her. When claim liability 
is being decided, it is usual that the claim will be registered as fault until a final decision is 
made. And once the liability has been agreed at the end of the claim, the insurer will look at 
refunding any difference in premiums that were paid due to this. So Id expect Advantage to 
consider this once the claim is registered as non-fault. This is the usual process for a claim 
to follow, so I dont agree it would be fair to ask Advantage to depart from it. Should Mrs D 
be unhappy with its decision on this once it is made, then she could raise a complaint and 
bring it to this service to consider if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Mark Mrs Ds claim as bonus allowed (non-fault) on their records and the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
Reinstate Mrs Ds no claims discount accordingly. 
Pay Mrs D £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman