DRN-3225365
The complaint
Mr W complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank didnt do enough to 
protect him from losing £699 to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here.
In April 2021, Mr W made an online payment of £699 from his account held with 
Dankse Bank. He thought he was paying for a second-hand rowing machine hed seen 
advertised online. 
Dankse Banks systems identified the payment as unusual. It blocked the payment and 
spoke with Mr W on the phone. During this call Mr W was advised that if he sent the 
payment by bank transfer, he might not be able to get his money back if something went 
wrong. He was told that more protection was available if he instead made the payment by 
credit card. Mr W was given the option to have the payment returned to his account so he 
could make it by card instead (an option he told Dankse Bank the seller had stated was 
available) or for it to be held until hed spoken to the merchant and satisfied himself of their 
legitimacy. Mr W told Dankse Bank hed already spoken to the seller several times. He 
confirmed the transaction as genuine and said he wanted to proceed with making the 
payment by transfer. 
A few days later, when the seller stopped communicating with Mr W and the second-hand 
rowing machine didnt arrive, Mr W contacted Danske Bank about the matter. He said hed 
been the victim of a professional scam. The website where hed seen the equipment 
advertised appeared genuine, but it now seems to be the case that he was really interacting 
with fraudsters. 
Mr W told Dankse Bank, unlike banks, he does not have the facilities at his disposal to 
determine which websites are genuine and which ones arent. He questioned whether the 
reason for Danske Banks intervention was in fact as it had claimed  that its systems had 
identified the payment as unusual. Or rather that it was in possession of intelligence in 
relation to the merchant or account details hed made the payment to. Mr W believes it to be 
the latter as hed made a transaction of a similar size, to a different merchant a week earlier, 
but Dankse Bank hadnt blocked or got in touch about this payment.
He alleges Dankse Bank knew this was a scam and despite having this knowledge still 
asked him whether he wanted to proceed with the payment. He believes the phone call 
asking him whether he wanted to continue with the payment was Dankse Bank simply trying 
to limit its liability. He feels strongly that Dankse Bank has been dishonest. He thinks it 
knowingly withheld crucial information from him about the merchant and/or the account he 
transferred his funds to. He asked Dankse Bank to refund his loss.
Ultimately, Dankse Bank said it would not be refunding Mr Ws loss as hed authorised the 
payment. It said it had no prior knowledge as to the legitimacy of the merchant or website. 
The reason the payment was stopped was because it was out of character for his account. It 
also said once notified by Mr W that hed been tricked into making the payment it made 
reasonable efforts to recover the funds  but the beneficiary bank confirmed none remained. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary he concluded that he couldnt fairly ask Dankse Bank to provide Mr W 
with a refund as it had identified the disputed payment as unusual, had asked him questions 
about it and had provided suitable warnings and Mr W still wanted to proceed. He was also 
satisfied that Mr Ws funds had been spent by the beneficiary before the fraud was reported 
 so Dankse Bank could not have done more to assist with the recovery of those funds. 
Mr W disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr W has fallen victim to a scam. I understand that he would like 
the scammers to be stopped so that they do not take money from other innocent people. But 
an investigation into the criminal actions of the scammers is a matter for the Police  not 
Dankse Bank or our service. 
My role here is limited to considering whether Dankse Bank has done anything wrong and, if 
so, whether Mr W has lost out as a result. Im afraid simply being the victim of a scam 
doesnt automatically entitle Mr W to a refund. I can see Mr W has made several comments 
about our service being biased, lacking impartiality and protecting the banks. I acknowledge 
his strength of feeling but Id like to assure Mr W that we are an independent and impartial 
service  we do not take sides. And Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided by 
both parties before reaching my decision  this includes listening to the phone calls between 
him and Dankse Bank.
Mr W argues the point that several days earlier he made a similar sized payment for £499 
and Dankse Bank didnt intervene. There are likely to be various flags that trigger a 
transaction, not necessarily just the amount involved. And that would explain why 
transactions for the same amount of money might go through on one day and fail on another 
day. This is particularly the case where the previous payment was made with a card (which 
has the benefit of some protection under a chargeback scheme which a transfer doesnt). I 
understand why this may have been frustrating for Mr W but other than his suggestions, 
there is no evidence to support that Dankse bank had prior knowledge that the account 
details hed instructed a payment to were receiving fraudulently obtained funds or that the 
merchants website was not genuine. I know Mr W would like me to investigate this further 
but its not for me to prove the allegations he makes. I have no reason to doubt the 
explanation Dankse Bank has provided for why it intervened, particularly so as good industry 
practice at the time was for banks to identify and block payments which were unusual or 
uncharacteristic for their customers accounts.In this case Danske Bank considered the outgoing £699 payment to be unusual. So, they 
blocked it and spoke to Mr W before releasing it. Im satisfied that Danske Bank took all the 
reasonable steps Id expect to warn Mr W about the possibility of a scam and that they 
provided appropriate advice about potentially safer ways to make the payment. This isnt a 
case where I think there was anything substantive enough to mean that Danske Bank would 
have been justified in refusing Mr Ws payment instruction altogether and going against his 
wishes. Once Danske Bank had fulfilled their obligation to warn Mr W in relation to what they 
considered to be an unusual payment, they werent required to have further involvement in 
how he decided to spend his money. 
For completeness, Ive also considered the steps Danske Bank took when Mr W informed it 
of the problem with his payment. Im satisfied there werent any failings or delays by 
Danske Bank that otherwise would have resulted in the recovery of all or part of Mr Ws 
payment. I say this because Ive seen confirmation from the beneficiary bank that Mr Ws 
funds were spent before hed even reported the matter to Dankse Bank.  
Ultimately, Dankse Bank identified a risk, took sufficient steps to highlight this to Mr W and 
then followed his instruction. It was Mr Ws decision to continue to make the transfer. In 
these circumstances I cant conclude the loss is the fault of the business. And as Ive 
covered above, Im not persuaded there is evidence to support that Danske Bank had 
information about the particular merchant (or account) Mr W was paying and failed to 
highlight this to him. So overall, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell it to do 
more to resolve this complaint. 
Whilst I know my decision will be disappointing and isnt the answer Mr W was hoping for, I 
hope it brings some closure to this matter for him. He is not obliged to accept what Ive said, 
in which case he remains free to pursue this matter by alternative means should he wish to 
do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman