DRN-1517427
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Billing Finance Ltd (Billing Finance).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car through a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing Finance, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around six years old and had completed about 53,889 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
When the turbo charger failed in October 2018 the relevant legislation allowed the business 
an opportunity to repair the fault. It seems that Billing Finance accepted responsibility for that 
repair but that an agreement was reached for them to supply the turbo so Mr S could 
arrange fitting at a third-party garage. I understand its disputed whether Mr S agreed to 
have a second-hand turbo charger fitted. I dont think it was unreasonable for the business to 
do that. The car had already completed in excess of 54,000 miles so I dont think a new part 
was obligatory. 
In January 2019 when the car turbo was eventually changed, Mr S had only had the car for a 
little less than five months. I think, given the fact the car had only been in his possession for 
that amount of time, it is reasonable to suggest that the onus was on Billing Finance to 
accept the fault had been developing from the start or to demonstrate otherwise.
So, I think they were right to authorise an independent inspection. The inspector didnt 
identify any fault with the turbo or oil pump and didnt find any coolant leaks. The faults he 
referred to needed a little further investigation (the low catalytic pressure and tapping from 
the engine) but, in his expert opinion, it was unlikely the faults were present or developing at 
the point of supply. 
I understand Mr S is disappointed that the inspector didnt drive the car. He explained this 
wasnt possible because an engine warning light was displayed. But I dont think that would 
have impacted on his ability to identify low oil pressure or a coolant leak and he was able to 
comment on how well the engine was running. His inspection of the functioning of the turbo 
didnt therefore appear to be hindered. 
Im persuaded by that expert view that the faults present on the car, if any, at that point, had 
developed since Mr S had taken receipt of the car. I therefore dont think theres sufficient 
evidence that Billing Finance need to take any additional action.
I understand that since our investigator provided his view on this complaint there have been 
further engine issues. I can see the investigator advised Mr S that he would need to raise 
these new concerns with Billing Finance to give them an opportunity to review them first. I 
agree with the investigators suggestion and of course, if Mr S isnt satisfied with the 
response he receives on these new problems he will be able to refer that new complaint to 
this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman