DRN-3754777
The complaint
Mr S complains about the end of contract damage charges raised by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS). 
What happened
Mr S acquired a van through a hire agreement with MBFS in 2017. The vehicle was 
collected at the end of the agreement on 9 February 2022 and delivered to a local depot. It 
was then moved on 16 February 2022 to an inspection centre, and a full damage inspection 
took place on 9 March 2022. This highlighted five items of damage outside of fair wear and 
tear guidelines, and the repair costs for these totalled £845.55. These were:
Nearside front door interior dent - £120.24
Nearside front wheel alloy damage - £79.15
Nearside rear quarter panel dented - £19.61
Offside rear roof dented/rusted - £418.53
Rear offside cargo door dent - £208.02
Mr S disputed these charges and complained to MBFS. He said that the van had done 
unaccounted for mileage after it had been collected from him, which he wanted explained, 
and the damage must have occurred during this period of time as there was no damage 
when he returned the vehicle. 
MBFS sent their final response letter (FRL) on 31 March 2022. They partially upheld his 
complaint and removed the charges for the nearside front door interior dent and nearside 
rear quarter panel dent. They said that as there had been a delay in inspecting the van, 
these items couldnt be shown to be aged damage, so they would remove them. This left 
an invoice of £705.70 owing for three items of damage. 
Mr S didnt agree with this and brought his complaint to our service. He said there was 
additional mileage on top of the delivery of the vehicle to the inspection centre and the 
damage wasnt caused by himself. 
An investigator here looked at the complaint and gave their view which partially upheld the 
complaint. They felt that MBFS couldnt prove that the rear offside cargo door dent wasnt 
done in the period between the van being collected and it being inspected, so said this 
£208.02 charge should be removed. However, they said that the two remaining charges 
were fair; the alloy wheel damage didnt appear to be fresh, and similarly, the 
rusting/damage to the roof appeared in their opinion to have been there for some time. 
This left two charges for a total of £497.68 still payable. MBFS accepted this view, but Mr S 
didnt. He wanted an explanation about the miles travelled which were unaccounted for, and 
why hed been told it was left outside an employees house overnight. He also said he felt 
that corrosion of bare metal can occur quickly, so this isnt a sign of aged damage. He asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a van under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Because of approximately 100 additional miles covered by the vehicle after collection which 
are unexplained, and the delay of around a month in inspecting the van, it will be impossible 
for me to know with total certainty when the damages in this complaint have occurred. Mr S 
hasnt provided any photographic evidence of these areas to show they were undamaged 
when the van was collected, and MBFS have only provided photos from around a month 
after the van was collected. Theyve also offered no explanation for the additional mileage 
covered, other than the fact that a driver had the car overnight at their house before 
delivering it to the inspection centre. 
As such, I have to make decisions on the balance of probability. That means I need to weigh 
up the evidence, and make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened 
here.
On this basis, Im not saying one party or the other is telling the truth or not. Im making a 
judgement, based on the evidence, of what I think is most likely to have happened. 
MBFS have accepted the investigators findings with regards to the charge for a dent to the 
rear offside cargo door. I agree with those findings. For a dent, it isnt clear when this might 
have happened and what caused it. There was a period of around a month between the 
vehicle being collected and inspected, and around 100 unexplained miles added to the 
vehicle in that period. 
MBFS have said that the vehicle was kept overnight at a drivers address before being 
transferred to their inspection centre. This is something which happens quite frequently, and 
in itself doesnt cause me any concern. But the delays in delivering the van to the inspection 
site, followed by a much longer delay after this before inspecting the van, do bring this item 
of damage into question. The 100 extra miles covered does suggest the van could have 
been used during this period, as we havent been told where the driver lives to gauge 
whether that explains the mileage discrepancy. 
Taking these things into consideration, I agree that its fair to remove the charge for the rear 
offside cargo door dent. I am not saying that the dent has or hasnt occurred prior to the 
vehicle being collected; just that with a delay and unaccounted for mileage, a dent can 
happen quite quickly, and shows no real signs of ageing, so I agree that its fair for MBFS to 
remove this charge.   
That brings me to the two remaining damage charges. These are for damage to the alloy 
wheel, and damage to the roof. The alloy wheel damage is clear. Its well outside of MBFSs guidelines for fair wear and tear 
and also the industry standard British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines 
(BVRLA). These say that scuffs/scratches that total under 50mm of the circumference of the 
rim are acceptable. The investigator has said there is more than 50mm of damage, and my 
view is that the damage is considerably more than 50mm. The photo shows damage around 
more than a quarter of the rim. 
Ive then considered whether this damage might have occurred in the one month period 
between the van being collected and being inspected. Im not persuaded that this would be 
the case. The damage does not look fresh and is discoloured in many places. It also 
appears to potentially be from more than one incident, as there are damaged areas, then 
small undamaged areas, followed by more damage. 
Im satisfied that the discolouration of this damage shows that it is unlikely to be something 
that happened in the small number of miles or timeframe between collection and inspection. 
The vehicle was used by Mr S for around five years, and then there was a one month delay 
before it was inspected. On balance, I am satisfied that this damage most likely occurred 
during the period Mr S had possession of the van, and so Im not upholding this part of his 
complaint. This has been charged fairly by MBFS. 
And finally, that brings me to the damage to the roof. The roof is showing signs of fairly 
extensive damage. There are areas of discolouration, dents, and also areas where the 
topcoat and basecoat have been penetrated and rust patches have formed. There are also 
several areas where the topcoat of paint appears to be missing but not the base coat. 
This damage would fall well outside of BVRLA or MBFS fair wear and tear guidelines. 
BVRLA guidelines say that scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. But in this instance, there are 
several scratches and whole patches where the topcoat has been penetrated, and bare 
metal is showing. 
So, I have to consider the likelihood of when this damage has occurred. Mr S believes the 
van was undamaged when it was collected and has also said that he believes rust can form 
within 24 hours. MBFS have said that while rust can form immediately, it takes time to form 
to the state it is and the colour it is here, and they dont accept this might have been a recent 
issue with the van. 
In considering the dents, the same issue applies as above. These might have been done 
quite recently, and its impossible to tell, they show no signs of ageing. So, Ive focused on 
the discolouration and the rust patches evident in forming my decision. 
There is a patch on the roof along one of the ridges with considerable damage. There are 
discoloured patches of paint, which look like they are potentially bird lime damage or similar. 
Some of these patches have missing paint through to the metal, and some have patches of 
rust which have formed. Im not persuaded that this damage could have formed in the short 
period of time between the van being collected, and its inspection. The patches appear to 
have begun as discolouration and then developed into missing patches of paint work before 
some of those patches have begun to rust. I think its most likely that this would have 
developed over many months or even years, not a few weeks. 
I also think its important to recognise that these patches on the roof of the vehicle may not 
have been evident to Mr S. The roof would be difficult to examine, and there seems to be 
several areas of damage in different areas of the roof. 
This kind of damage doesnt feel likely to have been caused in a short period of time after the van was collected. Its in several places, with paint missing, dents and rusted patches. 
On the balance of probability, its most likely that this damage has developed over a much 
longer time period. As such, Im not upholding this part of the complaint. This damage 
charge for the roof has been charged fairly.  
Overall, this leaves two charges for damage which I am satisfied are fair. The alloy wheel 
charge of £79.15, and the damage to the roof, charged at £418.53. The other charge that 
was remaining, for £208.02 for the dent to the cargo door, should be removed. 
Mr S has indicated to us that both himself and his wife have been made redundant after the 
pandemic. I was sorry to hear this and would remind MBFS of the need to treat him fairly 
and with forbearance with regards to the remaining £497.68 owing on this invoice. 
Putting things right
MBFS should remove the charge for £208.02 for the cargo door dent from the invoice for 
damages. This will leave Mr S with a total charge for damages to be invoiced of £497.68. 
My final decision
I am partially upholding this complaint, and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to put things right as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman