DRN-3804846
The complaint
Mrs J complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined to transfer a 
cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) into her investment portfolio and about poor 
customer service.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs J by her representative. I am grateful to Mrs Js 
representative for his assistance in bringing this complaint. But, to keep things simpler, Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs J as the complainant as this matter concerns her investments.  
What happened
Mrs J is elderly and no longer lives independently. Her financial affairs are managed on her 
behalf by a family member who holds a power of attorney (POA). 
Around June 2021, when a cash ISA she held was maturing, Mrs J asked NatWest, through 
her attorney, to transfer it into her discretionary portfolio so her money had the potential to 
generate better returns than Mrs J might expect if she kept the funds in cash.
NatWest decided that Mrs Js circumstances meant it couldnt be satisfied that such an 
investment was suitable for her and declined to carry out the transfer.
Through her attorney, I understand that Mrs J is unhappy because she has enough funds in 
reserve to cover her anticipated expenses for the next five years and she feels that 
NatWests decision is unfairly based on her age and incorrect assumptions about her health.  
When Mrs Js representative complained to NatWest, it said it was required to check 
suitability of the investment and provide suitable advice. Based on data published by the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) relating to life expectancy NatWest said it would be 
impossible to recommend a 5 year plus investment to Mrs J. Whilst it appreciated the 
reasons for wanting to complete the transfer, NatWest confirmed that, after an independent 
review, it stood by the advice it had given and its recommendation. 
NatWest said it had been keen to ensure every avenue of enquiry was explored before 
responding to Mrs Js representative and whilst it didnt agree with the main complaint point, 
nevertheless, it considered the time he had waited was excessive. By way of an apology, it 
said it would like to offer him £250.
Mrs J didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so her representative 
contacted us. 
After carefully looking into what happened, our investigator didnt feel that NatWest needed 
to take any action. She felt that NatWest had fairly considered the transfer request and 
reasonably reached the conclusion that it wouldnt be in Mrs Js best interests to invest in 
more illiquid assets over a minimum five year term based on her circumstances. So she 
didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint about NatWests refusal to transfer the cash ISA to her 
investment portfolio.
Through her representative, Mrs J disagreed. I have summarised here what seem to me to 
be the main complaint points mentioned by her representative:
The poor customer service element is an equally important and relevant part of this 
case, it hasnt been addressed by the investigator and still remains a source of great 
concern.
The whole premise of the banks rejection of the cash ISA transfer was predicated 
upon (Mrs Js) age, and the banks criteria of a five year investment horizon in case 
of capital loss.
She had more than five years care costs in cash (excluding investment returns) and 
monthly income, therefore providing a sufficient cushion.
The bank incorrectly recorded key information and reported incorrect figures in 
correspondence on a number of occasions and, in one instance, referred to a 
financial review date which was completely erroneous  for which the bank 
apologised.
Mrs Js representative said that both he and Mrs J had been very badly treated and he would 
like an ombudsman to decide this matter.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. Its my role to identify and focus on what I think is 
relevant and explain how I have reached my conclusions. I will deal with all the main points 
that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
NatWests decision not to recommend Mrs J invest her cash ISA in her discretionary portfolio 
I am aware that Mrs Js representative feels strongly that NatWest was wrong to make 
assumptions that Mrs Js age meant the investment risk involved in transferring her cash ISA 
into her portfolio made this an unsuitable investment for her  especially when the returns on 
cash were poor and investing her money in her portfolio offered the possibility of a better 
return.  
NatWest has provided me with notes that demonstrate it took a careful and considered 
approach to deciding whether or not it could fairly say that transferring Mrs Js cash ISA, 
which was a low risk investment, into a more risky investment portfolio could be deemed a 
suitable course of action. 
NatWest was required to think carefully about this because Mrs J did not have an execution 
only facility - so the only way forward was for NatWest to advise on the proposed transfer. 
I've taken into account that Mrs Js representative places significant weight on the fact that 
Mrs J appeared to have ample funds in reserve to meet all her foreseeable costs so that she 
was safely able to take more of a risk with the money in her cash ISA. But this is not the only 
criterion for assessing suitability. NatWest also took into account Mrs Js age, which I think was a relevant consideration. At 
the time NatWest considered this matter, ONS data indicated that an individual of  Mrs Js 
age had a life expectancy of around  three and a half years.
This is a simplistic way of looking at things. I accept that it is impossible for anyone to know 
in advance exactly what a persons lifespan will be. But the ONS collects data on behalf of 
the UK government and so I think NatWest was reasonably entitled to rely on this 
information to help inform its investment recommendation. 
The risk profile of Mrs Js discretionary portfolio was moderately risk tolerant and the time 
frame for investment was medium to long (5 years +). 
It follows that investing cash into the portfolio could represent poor value for Mrs J if she 
wasnt likely to be able to benefit from the minimum period it was recommended she should 
hold the investment for. So I can understand why, based on the information it gathered, 
NatWest concluded there was a real likelihood that Mrs J would be looking at making an 
investment loss on these projections.
I think it was fair and reasonable in these circumstances for NatWest to conclude that 
implementing the transfer instructions relayed by Mrs Js representative was not in Mrs Js 
best interests and to decline to do so. I dont think NatWest could fairly have concluded on 
the information it had available at the time that it had seen enough to satisfy itself that the 
proposed investment was in its clients best interests. This is a regulatory requirement 
NatWest must satisfy. So I dont find that NatWest did anything wrong or acted in a way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable when it declined to transfer the cash ISA to Mrs Js portfolio in 
June 2021.   
I appreciate that a reference made by NatWest to Mrs J not being in good health at the time 
has caused offence and Mrs Js representative disputes this assessment of her health. But 
I dont think in reality that concerns about Mrs Js health impacted significantly on NatWests 
suitability decision when official data on her life expectancy suggested she was unlikely to 
live long enough to get any benefit from her proposed investment. 
So this doesnt change my view of the outcome.
Poor service issues
Thinking about the service NatWest provided, I havent overlooked the fact that Mrs Js 
representative feels strongly that some of the information NatWest held about Mrs Js 
holdings was inaccurate and/or mistakenly referenced in correspondence. I understand that 
the cash ISA was finally re-invested on 07/02/2022 and Mrs Js representative believes that 
NatWests poor customer service record was contributory to the protracted length of time to 
complete that transfer.
It looks to me like there were some shortcomings on the part of NatWest in terms of the 
quality of service it provided in connection with this matter  there do seem to be some 
mistakes in correspondence for instance and I think it's fair to say that NatWest has 
acknowledged that it took a long time to deal with the matter.
I think it's fair to say that a large part of the frustration felt by Mrs Js representative concerns 
the impact that dealing with this matter has had on him. I am very sorry to learn that he feels 
service failings and errors on the part of NatWest have added to the time he has had to 
spend dealing with this matter and delayed matters generally. I sympathise with his position. But, when thinking about what I can fairly and reasonably 
require NatWest to do to put things right, I must keep in mind that redress for its poor service 
is owed to Mrs J and not to her representative. This is because Mrs J is the account holder 
and NatWest owes its duty of care to her. 
It is the impact on Mrs J that matters when thinking about whether NatWest should provide 
compensation. I must look at the way NatWest has dealt with matters concerning Mrs Js 
account and I can require NatWest to put things right for Mrs  J if I find it hasnt acted fairly or 
reasonably towards her.
It seems clear that it was mainly Mrs Js representative who had all the stress of sorting 
things out on a day to day basis. But all of these things resulted in unnecessary delay which 
would likely have impacted on Mrs J also. 
NatWest previously offered a payment of £250 to Mrs Js representative and, in my view, this 
fairly reflects the impact on Mrs J of its poor service. 
Mrs Js representative states that there was a lengthy delay in reinvesting the cash ISA 
proceeds, and this was caused by NatWest. 
However, once NatWest had explained why it was not willing to accept this amount into the 
portfolio, the representative was able to consider other options that he might want to 
consider. 
Overall I havent been provided with any evidence to show that delays or error on the part of 
NatWest resulted in any financial loss to Mrs J.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change 
what I think about this case. As National Westminster Bank Plc has previously offered to 
pay Mrs J £250, to reflect the additional stress and inconvenience caused to her by its 
admitted delay in the course of dealing with this matter, it should do what it has offered (if it 
hasnt already). I make no further directions. 
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint. So, beyond paying Mrs J £250 as it offered to do, I do not 
require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further steps to put things right for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman