DRN-3167934
The complaint
Ms H complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants compensation for her car repairs, her policy reinstated and 
compensation for her expenses.
What happened
Ms H made a claim on her policy and her car was taken for repairs. The courtesy car was 
damaged and UKI asked Ms H to pay £300 to the garage for its repairs. Two months after 
the repairs had been completed, Ms H told UKI there were still problems remaining. The car 
was returned to the approved repairer, but nothing was done for two months. Ms H incurred 
travel costs in this time. 
UKI then had its engineer assess the car and he said the problems were unrelated to the 
previous incident or repairs. So UKI declined to pay for further repairs. The policy then 
lapsed. Ms H was concerned that this meant it had been cancelled.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought UKI 
had reasonably relied on the expert evidence provided by the engineer to decide not to pay 
for further repairs. As this part of the claim wasnt valid, he thought UKI wasnt responsible 
for Ms Hs alternative travel costs. 
He thought UKI had reasonably asked Ms H to pay £300 for repairs to the courtesy car and 
so avoid a further fault claim on her record. But he thought UKI shouldnt have delayed its 
decision on the further repairs. He thought UKI should pay Ms H £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused her.
UKI agreed to do this. But Ms H thought UKI should have accepted the claim for further 
repairs as it was the same issue as the first claim. She said shed been affected because 
other insurers asked if there had been a refusal to renew her policy. Ms H said shed been 
told that if she paid for the repair of the courtesy car then her policy would be renewed. Ms H 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H said she told UKI and the repairers when she reported the incident that the car wasnt 
driving properly. But she said this wasnt repaired. Ms H said that after her car had been 
returned after the repairs, she noticed the same problem (the car pulling to the right) and this 
became progressively worse over time. But it took her two months to raise this with UKI and 
in this time she had driven a further 960 miles. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I also think its for Ms H to establish that she has a valid claim. Ms H said she raised the 
issue of the cars steering after the accident, when the car was collected and when it was 
returned. In response, UKIs engineer said,
this is unrelated damage and has nothing to do with the circumstances of the claim as all 
four alloy wheels were heavily damaged when the vehicle came onsite to the repairer. The 
vehicle was of an unroadworthy condition after the repair due to the severity of impact and 
there is no evidence to suggest that this is anyway related to the accident.
UKI is only responsible for repairs related to the claim. I can see from the emails provided by 
Ms H that in further discussions with the engineer he added further comments based on the 
cars MOT and its advisories, which again he said were unrelated to the accident or the 
repairs. He also commented on the distance the car had been driven before the concern was 
brought to UKIs attention following the repairs. 
I cant see that UKI had any further expert engineering evidence to consider. So I think it 
reasonably relied on the opinion of its engineer and so justified its decision not to pay for 
further repairs. 
As Im satisfied that UKI wasnt responsible for further repairs to Ms H car, it wasnt 
responsible for the consequences of returning it to the garage. So I cant hold UKI 
responsible for Ms Hs outlay for travel in this time. 
Ms H was provided with a courtesy car whilst hers was repaired. When this was returned, 
the repairer said the car had a scratch. From its notes, I can see that UKI advised Ms H to 
pay for these repairs to avoid having a further fault claim on her policy. I can see from the 
policy terms and conditions that Ms H is responsible for any damage to the courtesy car 
whilst its in her possession. And, if UKI had paid for a claim, then a fault would have been 
recorded. I havent seen that this was linked to her renewal. So I cant say that Ms H was 
misadvised about this.
When the policy lapsed, UKI didnt offer a renewal. But I cant say this was wrong as I think 
this is its commercial decision, just as its for Ms H to decide not to renew with UKI. 
Ms Hs car was with UKIs approved repairer the second time for two months before a 
decision was made. UKI said it was waiting for the repairer, and the garage said it was 
waiting for UKIs approval. 
But I think this poor communication caused an avoidable delay in Ms H receiving UKIs 
decision about further repairs. I think the investigators recommendation of £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused is fair and reasonable. Thats because 
its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms H £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed 
to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman