DRN-3626793
The complaint
Mr R complains about Portal Financial Services LLPs (Portal) advice concerning the 
transfer of benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and also his 
personal pension plan to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
At the time Portal gave its advice it was operating under a different name. But, as its now 
known as Portal I shall only use that name in this decision.
Professional representatives have helped Mr R to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to their comments as being Mr Rs.
What happened
Mr R contacted Portal in 2017 about accessing his pension funds after seeing an advert on 
social media. Mr R had two separate pension funds. He was a deferred member of his 
former employers DB scheme. He also had a personal pension held with another pension 
provider. 
Portal asked for information about Mr Rs two pension funds. It obtained a transfer value 
analysis report concerning Mr Rs DB scheme. In June 2017 Mr R spoke with Portal; he told 
it the provider of his personal pension kept writing to him asking if he wanted to cash his 
pension in with it. Portal recorded that Mr R was happy to stay with Portal and that it was 
conducting an analysis and would be in touch with his options. 
On 1 August 2017 Portal sent Mr R a letter setting out his options. That said Mr R could 
have maximum tax free cash (TFC) of £12,594 and set out the values of his existing 
pension pots. It asked him to call so it could complete his pension review. 
Portal spoke with Mr R and completed a fact-find to gather information about his 
circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. Portal recorded that:
Mr R was 55, living with his partner and had no dependents.
He earned £16,350 a year and took home around £1,200 a month net.
He paid board of £300 a month.
He had an outstanding loan of £8,000 which he was paying around £262 a month 
towards. 
He had a credit card balance of £300 which he was paying approximately £30 
towards per month. 
He had disposable income of around £400 a month.
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £20,047, which had 
been reduced by £4,155 because the scheme fund was in deficit.
The DB scheme would allow him to take a full pension, at age 65, of £1,306 - without 
taking TFC. The critical yield (the growth rate required to match that benefit) was 
13.3%.
Alternatively Mr R could take TFC of £6,030, at 65, together with a yearly pension of 
£904; the critical yield to meet those figures was 11.5%.
Mr Rs personal pension had a transfer value of £30,332.53, from which he could 
take TFC of £7,583.
He had a cautious attitude to risk.
On 8 August 2017 Portal sent Mr R its first suitability report concerning transferring his 
pension pots. Its recommendation was that Mr R should transfer both of his pensions to a 
named SIPP. It said that Mr Rs objectives were to:
Go on holiday
Tackle a debt
Put into/create an emergency fund 
Portal said that Mr R had chosen to take TFC of £12,594 and that by transferring his pension 
funds the SIPP would:
deliver greater ongoing benefits than your current provider.
It added that Mr R would also benefit from:
Greater flexibility in accessing his pension funds
Maximising TFC 
Greater choice and flexibility in terms of death benefits
Ownership and control of his pension fund
He was willing to take an investment risk.
Mr R phoned Portal on 22 August 2017. Portal recorded that he told it that as well as the 
£12,594 TFC, he also wanted to take taxable cash of £28,650  up to the higher rate tax 
margin  which he could use to put down as a deposit on a home. 
Portal then wrote to Mr R again on 13 September 2017. It said hed told it he wanted to take 
TFC of £12,594 and a gross taxable lump sum of £28,650. It said:
we strongly recommend that you do not access your [DB] pension early by taking 
more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave it where it is because of the 
guarantees/benefits that you will be giving up.
Portal added that if Mr R wanted to go ahead with the transfer he could do so but it would 
treat him as an insistent client. It attached an options form and asked Mr R to tick the box 
against his preferred choice which was from:
To go against Portals recommendation by transferring his pensions and taking TFC 
of £12,594 and a gross taxable lump sum of £28,650.
Disregarding Portals recommendation and take £12,549 TFC and another taxable 
sum to be completed by Mr R:
To accept its recommendation, which was:
transfer to a flexi-access drawdown plan, take tax free cash of £12,594 from both of 
my pension plans and a taxable lump sum of £22,749 from my [personal] pension 
scheme. I will transfer the residual amount of my [DB] plan into a flexi-access 
drawdown
Stop the pension review completely.Portals letter added that if Mr R went against its recommendation he would also need to 
complete the attached insistent client form acknowledging that he was going against its 
recommendation.
Two days later, on 15 September 2017, Mr R signed the insistent client form saying that he 
wanted to take £12,594 and a gross taxable lump sum of £28,650. He acknowledged that in 
doing so he would have to pay £5,730 more in tax. 
On 26 September 2017 Portal sent Mr R a second suitability report. The cover letter it sent 
with it said that Portal was delighted to recommend that Mr R should transfer both his 
pensions to a named SIPP. And, if he agreed with its recommendation Mr R would receive 
TFC of £12,594 and a taxable lump sum of £28,650 with Portal managing and reviewing his 
remaining invested funds. 
Amongst other things, the suitability report said that Portal had already recommended that 
Mr R should not access his DB fund:
early by taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave your pension 
funds where they are because of the benefits you will be giving up
The report added that as Mr R wished to go ahead Portal would treat him as an insistent 
client. 
The report also said the SIPP was unlikely to meet the required critical yield to match the 
benefits of his existing DB scheme. But the report added that as Mr R didnt wish to buy an 
annuity the growth rate required was 4.6%. It said its recommendation was based on that 
growth rate. It set out some of the potential risks of transferring his funds. It told Mr R the 
CETV offered by his DB scheme had expired on 13 July 2017 and the scheme 
administrators might charge him a fee to recalculate it. 
The report noted that the full CETV was £24,202 but that the scheme administrators had 
reduced this to £20,047 to reflect that the scheme was currently underfunded. Portal added 
that its adviser fee  which was 7% of the total fund transferred  was £3,523.24. It said the 
SIPP would charge him £75 a year if he took any money out of it. The SIPP provider would 
apply a yearly management charge of 0.48% and that fund charges would also apply as 
set out in the SIPP documents. Portal would also charge Mr R 1% of the remaining fund 
value for ongoing financial advice.
On 10 October 2017 Mr R signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer. His personal 
pension was transferred into the named SIPP in November 2017. Later that month the DB 
scheme administrators provided a revised CETV. The quote said that Mr Rs full value was 
£23,800 but because of a scheme deficit it would only offer a CETV of £19,819. Portal 
acquired another pension transfer analysis report, that was done for the full CETV of 
£23,800.
On 1 December 2017 Mr R signed a declaration to say that he was happy to transfer his DB 
funds to the SIPP. The declaration said that the transfer value has increased to £23,800.78 
and the critical yield was 10.2%. In January 2018 the SIPP received a sum of £19,819 from 
his DB scheme.
In December 2020 Mr R complained to Portal about the suitability of its advice. Amongst 
other things he said:
Portal didnt follow the regulators guidance and didnt act in his best interests.
Its advice was confusing, contradictory and misleading.It said that it was recommending not to transfer his pension funds and was treating 
him as an insistent client but then made a recommendation to transfer.
It didn't explain what an insistent client was or the consequences of that.
It decided to treat Mr R as an insistent client after speaking with him, which wasnt 
best practice. 
It should have given clear advice not to transfer.
Mr Rs objectives of going on holiday, repaying a debt and having an emergency fund 
were wants rather than needs.
Portal didnt obtain a written statement from Mr R saying in his own words why he 
should be treated as an insistent client.
Mr R lost guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme.
It didnt make it clear that the recommended SIPP would have had to perform 
particularly well to match the benefits of the DB scheme. 
Mr R could have accessed funds from his personal pension without paying Portal a 
fee.
The DB scheme would allow Mr R to take benefits from it at age 55 but there was no 
evidence that Portal explored this option. 
Mr R didnt understand the suitability report as Portal didnt go through it with him.
The DB scheme had guaranteed death benefits for his partner which he lost by 
transferring out of it. 
The SIPP would have to grow substantially to meet the required critical yield of 
11.5%.
Mr R didnt wish to take a risk with his pension. 
Portal didnt advise Mr R of the benefits he would lose by transferring.
The SIPP would need additional growth to match the charges that came with it, 
unlike the DB scheme which didnt have any charges. 
Portal didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Amongst other things it said:
Portal did not advise Mr R to transfer out of his DB scheme. Its recommendation was 
that Mr R should leave his DB scheme where it was because of the guarantees 
attached to it and because of the level of the critical yield.
It made Mr R aware of the potential risks of going against its advice and what he 
would be giving up by transferring from the scheme.
It considered the growth rate required to be too high and couldnt advise Mr R to 
transfer from the DB scheme so treated him as an insistent client. 
Mr R had told it that he also wished to take a further taxable lump sum which 
increased the requirement to treat him as an insistent client.
Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly. 
Mr R was under no obligation to go ahead with the transfer if he didnt understand the 
suitability report and he should have contacted Portal if that was the case.
If Mr R hadn't gone ahead Portal would not have charged him. 
Given Mr Rs cautious attitude to risk and relatively low capacity for loss it could not 
feasibly advise you to transfer your final salary pension. It said its advice was very 
clear that Mr R should leave his DB plan in place.
It was clear in its communications throughout the process that the advice was not to 
proceed and to do so would be on an insistent client basis. 
It had phoned Mr R in September 2017 to ensure he understood the guarantees he 
was giving up and the tax implications. 
The amount available in Mr Rs personal pension was below the £41,244 Mr R 
required to meet his objectives; so Portal couldnt have recommended Mr R take the 
money from his personal pension plan alone as it wouldnt meet his objectives.It had made Mr R aware of the benefits, including death benefits, he would lose by 
transferring out of his DB scheme.
It believed Mr R would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless of its 
involvement. 
Given the size of Mr Rs requested withdrawal from his funds the remaining funds 
would not produce a substantial income in retirement.
It was implausible to think Mr R would not have realised the risks of depleting his 
pension fund. 
It had set out its adviser fee in its suitability report.
While Mr R didnt have to pay charges for his DB scheme he was bound by the 
scheme rules which had little flexibility. As the SIPP and the DB schemes are 
different it was not possible to make a direct comparison of the fees between the two. 
Instead the SIPP was compared against other products available on the market. 
Mr R agreed to the charges when he signed and returned the relevant transfer 
application forms. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint concerning 
the DB transfer and required Portal to pay compensation. In short she didnt think that Portal 
fairly considered Mr R to be an insistent client. She also didnt think Mr R would have gone 
ahead with the transfer without Portals involvement. She added that Portal didnt explore 
what benefits Mr R could take from his DB scheme immediately and put that option to him.
Portal didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
it said:
Mr R was clear that he wanted to go against Portals recommendation.
He completed the insistent client form in September 2017 after the first suitability 
report because he also wanted to access taxable funds. The first suitability report 
issued in August 2017 was a recommendation to access TFC only. 
Portal followed the regulators guidance in going through the insistent client process. 
It believed Mr R would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway.
It wouldnt have continued with the insistent client process if it felt that Mr R had 
shown a clear lack of understanding of it. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. But she updated her assessment 
to include an analysis of Mr Rs complaint about the transfer of his personal pension. In short 
she said she didnt think Mr R would have transferred his personal pension if he wasnt also 
transferring from his DB scheme. And she said she didnt think Portal had made the risks of 
transferring from his personal pension clear. So she said Portal should compensate Mr R for 
any loss as a result. 
As the investigator wasnt minded to change her view the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr R and Portal have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each 
and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart of 
Mr Rs complaint and the reasons for my decision.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BUSINESS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulators position 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. Indeed Portal also identified that it wasnt in Mr Rs best interests in response 
to the complaint and said that was why it treated him as an insistent client. That is a 
consumer who wishes to act against its advice.
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, 
which it set out as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that he is acting against its advice. The regulator also added that if the client used their own words 
to indicate that they want to act against an advising firms advice, this would normally be 
clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I would have expected Portal to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
Portals advice and its decision to treat Mr R as an insistent client
In reply to Mr Rs complaint Portal said it had advised him not to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. But, as Mr R wanted to go against its advice it treated him as an insistent client. It 
said it was fully compliant with the regulators guidance when doing so.
Ive looked carefully at Portals recommendations and its decision to treat Mr R as insistent, 
particularly in respect of the regulators position, to see whether I think Portal acted fairly.
Despite what its said in its responses to Mr Rs complaint, its not the case that, throughout 
the process Portal advised Mr R not to transfer out of his DB scheme. Indeed Portals initial 
recommendation, made in its 8 August 2017 suitability report was that Mr R should transfer 
out of his DB scheme. It said that this would.
deliver greater ongoing benefits than your current provider.
Portal recognised this was its advice when it responded to our investigators initial 
assessment of the complaint . At that time it agreed that its initial recommendation had been 
for Mr R to transfer and take maximum TFC. 
Following that recommendation Mr R rang Portal, on 22 August 2017. Portal recorded that 
he told it that, as well as taking TFC of £12,594, he also wanted to take a taxable amount of 
£28,650. It seems that Mr R had chosen that sum, £28,650, as that is the most he could take 
without his income going into the higher tax bracket. Portal didnt think it was in Mr Rs best 
interests to take the taxable lump-sum. On that basis it decided to treat him as an insistent 
client. But, it continued to recommend that he should transfer out of his DB scheme.
When Portal wrote to Mr R on 13 September 2017, it appended an options form to its letter, 
asking Mr R to tick the box next to the option he wanted to go ahead with. The first two 
options involved Mr R going against Portals advice. But the third, which was for Mr R to 
accept Portals recommendation said:
I want to transfer to a flexi-access drawdown plan, take tax free cash of £12,594 from both 
of my pension plans and a taxable lump sum of £22,749 from my [personal] pension scheme. I will transfer the residual amount of my [DB scheme] plan into a flexi-access 
drawdown.
That is very clearly a recommendation that Mr R should transfer out of his DB scheme. It 
also says Mr R should take a taxable lump sum of £22,749. So Portals argument that it 
hadn't recommended Mr R should transfer out of his DB scheme is not supported by the 
facts. It had very clearly made recommendations that Mr R should transfer out of his DB 
scheme both in its first suitability report and then in its options form on 13 September 2017.
The insistent client form it also sent with that letter said:
I understand that [Portals] recommendation is not to access my [DB scheme] pension early 
by taking more than my tax free cash entitlement. By disregarding this recommendation and 
instructing [Portal] to continue I understand that I am going against this recommendation and 
I am therefore an insistent client.
I find that anything but clear. In saying that Mr R should not take more than his tax free 
cash Portal implied that it was recommending he take his TFC, which is the same thing as a 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme, as Mr R couldnt access TFC from the 
scheme without transferring. 
Also the 13 September 2017 letter said that while it was against its advice for Mr R to take 
TFC and a taxable lump sum, it could help him to do that if he wanted to. So, Portal 
presented the possibility of transferring out of the scheme and taking a taxable lump sum on 
an insistent client basis, alongside the basic recommendation which appears to have been to 
only take TFC. Since Mr R complained Portal now argues that its actual advice was to leave 
his DB funds were they were. But if that was the case its advice was anything but clear, in 
fact it was misleading.
Further, if Portal did intend to advise Mr R to stay in the DB scheme, or to not take a taxable 
lump sum, it made it far too easy for him to disregard that advice by acting on an insistent 
client basis. Portal now argues that transferring out of the DB scheme was not in his best 
interests because the critical yield could not be met. But it plainly made an initial 
recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme. And its follow up communication after 
that wasn't clear. It still appeared to be recommending Mr R transfer and take TFC. The 
implication being that it was only treating Mr R as an insistent client because he also wanted 
to take a taxable lump sum. So, it was Mr Rs desire for the taxable sum that was against 
Portals recommendation, not simply transferring out of the DB scheme. But even then Portal 
said it would help him to both transfer out and take a taxable sum anyway. 
So, as well as giving muddled advice I think there were flaws in the manner in which Portal 
applied the insistent client process. What Portal should have done was given Mr R the 
amended report with clear and unambiguous advice not to transfer out of the DB scheme or 
to take a taxable lump sum. That would have placed the onus on Mr R to contact it again to 
find out what he needed to do if he did genuinely insist on going against its recommendation.
In addition, apart from the flaws in Portals process, its communication was anything but 
clear. Its second suitability report and the declaration it asked Mr R to sign in order to 
proceed both say that Mr R should not transfer out of the DB scheme because of the 
benefits he would be giving up. But this is clearly at odds with the option it gave Mr R in its 
letter of 13 September 2017, which said Mr R should transfer out of the scheme. Its also 
notable that theres no reference to its recommendation that Mr R should take taxable cash 
of £22,479 anywhere in the second suitability report. Portal clearly referred to this on the 
options form it sent to Mr R on 13 September 2017. But it didnt explain why it had referred 
to this sum in its suitability report.Further under a heading of Our Recommendation the second suitability report says:
We have already recommended that you do not access your [DB scheme] early by taking 
more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave your pension funds where they 
are because of the benefits you will be giving up. However, you have decided to disregard 
this recommendation and are aware that as a result we must now treat you as an insistent 
client. 
But that recommendation is contradictory. It says that portal had recommended that Mr R 
should not take more than your tax free cash entitlement, which implies that it was 
recommending that Mr R should take his TFC. Thats something that Mr R could achieve by 
transferring out of his DB scheme. And that would match with Portals recommendation in its 
first suitability report. But then in the same sentence it says that Mr R should leave his funds 
where they were because of the benefits he would be giving up. So the same sentence says 
Mr R should both transfer out of his DB scheme and stay in it. I can understand if Mr R was 
confused by this, as I think most readers of it would be. 
Portal only decided to treat Mr R as an insistent client when he said he wanted to take 
taxable cash as well as TFC. So the clear implication is that Portal thought it was in his best 
interests to transfer out of the DB scheme but to limit the level of that transfer to TFC. And I 
can understand that, from Mr Rs perspective, the only difference between Portals initial 
recommendation and his own preference for taking the taxable sum, was that hed have to 
pay tax on it. 
Portals second suitability report did say that its recommendation was that Mr R should leave 
his DB funds were they were, and it did highlight some of the risks and set out some of the 
benefits hed be giving up by doing so. But its recommendation was curiously worded at 
best. And the report also included a recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
Further it sent its 26 page suitability report alongside a two page cover letter. Mr R most 
likely felt that the cover letter was a summary of the contents of the second suitability report. 
The cover letter says:
Having considered your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are 
delighted to recommend:
Transferring your pension to an [named SIPP] pension plan.
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will receive your tax-free lump sum of £12,594.
You will receive your gross taxable lump sum of £28,650.
The cover letter goes on to explain what Mr R needed to do, for example by completing 
forms, in order to make that happen. So all the information in that cover letter gives the 
impression that Portal was recommending that Mr R should transfer out of his DB scheme. 
So I think its advice was ambiguous. And I don't think it can fairly rely on its recommendation 
in its second suitability report for Mr R not to transfer. Thats because its recommendation 
was muddled. It also relied on an out of date figure that wasn't guaranteed. And it was 
followed up immediately with information about how Mr R could proceed anyway. I think that 
sent mixed messages about what its genuine recommendation was. And the second 
suitability report, while saying, rather unclearly, that a transfer wasnt recommended, went on 
to recommend a transfer to the SIPP.
Further, I dont think any of Mr Rs objectives were worth giving up the valuable benefits of 
his DB scheme for. While Mr R was paying off a loan and a credit card bill, this was managed and theres no evidence he was struggling with his repayments. And the benefits 
of not having to repay debts in the short-term had to be offset against potentially being worse 
off in retirement, at a time when he would no longer be working and he would need to rely on 
his pension. So, had Portal tested this objective further, Mr R might have seen the option of 
clearing his debts, as something that might benefit him in the short-term but that certainly 
wasnt worth giving up a guaranteed pension for. 
Portals role was to find out what Mr Rs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to do what he wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for 
doing so. And it should have brought to Mr Rs attention the implications of taking those 
actions. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge even though that was in Mr Rs best 
interests.
I also dont think Portal fully explored what Mr Rs wants and needs were. And I dont think it 
met its obligations to challenge Mr Rs objectives in light of what he would be giving up. 
Indeed Mr R had a disposable income of around £400 each month. So he had no urgent 
need to repay his debts. Similarly, while I can understand that the prospect of going on 
holiday might be attractive, this clearly wasnt something that was essential for Mr R. 
Likewise, while I can see the benefits of an emergency fund, Portal didnt establish why this 
was so important to Mr R that it was worth giving up guaranteed pension income for. In fact, 
as far as I can see, Portal didnt attempt to find out just how much Mr R thought he would 
need. And without that information Portal wasnt in a position to give him suitable advice. 
Also, I don't think Portal gave Mr R all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed choice. For example, the DB scheme would have allowed Mr R to access benefits 
from it at age 55. And while its likely that the level of TFC and his annual pension would 
have been greatly reduced by taking his DB funds early, theres no evidence Portal 
considered this at all. This could have provided Mr R with a modest amount of TFC while 
also providing an ongoing, index linked and guaranteed income for the rest of his life. It 
might well have been the case that the sums on offer to Mr R from his DB scheme at age 55 
wouldnt have been suitable for him. But its something that Portal should have put to him 
before deciding he was an insistent client. 
Furthermore, when the DB scheme administrators provided information about the likely 
benefits available from the scheme, it said that the CETV was only guaranteed until 
July 2017. But, by the time that Portal sent its first suitability report that date had already 
passed and so the CETV wasnt guaranteed. That means the figures that Portal referred to 
in both of its suitability reports were already out of date. In November 2017 the DB scheme 
administrators provided a revised CETV. That said that the full CETV was £23,800 but 
because the fund was in deficit the trustees were offering a reduced CETV of £19,819.
Portal then acquired a second transfer value analysis. But this was completed on the full 
value of £23,800, rather than the lower amount of £19,819. So the figures in it aren't at all 
accurate. Its notable that Portal also asked Mr R to sign a declaration to say that he was 
happy to proceed by transferring £23,800 from his DB scheme to his SIPP. The declaration 
added that the critical yield for this sum was 10.2%. But the DB scheme administrators 
weren't offering Mr R a CETV of £23,800, they were only offering £19,819, which meant that 
Mr R would receive £3,981 less than Portal had told him to expect. And the critical yield also 
wasnt accurate because it was based on the wrong figure. I believe these are issues that, in 
order for Portal to give Mr R information that was clear, fair and not misleading, needed to be 
brought to his attention. But I havent seen evidence that Portal made the change in figures 
clear to Mr R..
I also think Portal should have done more to bring the reduced level of Mr Rs CETV to his 
attention. Portal did say in its suitability report that the CETV had been reduced from £24,202 to £20,047 because the scheme fund was in deficit. The report also said that the DB 
scheme was covered by the pension protection fund (PPF), which could ensure that Mr R 
received at least 90% of his entitlement under the DB scheme. But what Portal didnt make 
clear was that the CETV which the DB scheme administrators were offering initially was only 
around 83% of its full value. Also the DB scheme administrators told Mr R that its trustees 
had put in place arrangements to reduce the schemes shortfall, although they couldn't say 
when that would be achieved by and if they managed that it would have increased his fund 
value by around 17%. So I would have expected to see clear evidence that Portal raised this 
with Mr R to ensure he understood that, if he remained in the scheme, he was likely to 
receive higher benefits from it in the future than by transferring out when he did. But I've 
seen no evidence that Portal clearly brought this to Mr Rs attention. 
It follows that, as I've said above, I dont think Portal communicated with Mr R in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. And I dont believe Portal gave him all the facts with 
which to make an informed decision about whether or not he wanted to proceed on an 
insistent client basis.
Ive noted that Mr R told Portal that he wanted to go against its advice and for it to treat him 
as an insistent client. But it had previously told him that he should transfer out of the DB 
scheme. And its later advice that he shouldnt do so  if thats what it was trying to say  
was anything but clear. 
On balance, given the failings set out above, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that it was fair to truly regard Mr R as an 
insistent client. So I don't think it acted in his best interests.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr R about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows pension pots like Mr Rs DB 
scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Rs chosen path 
was to give up that income in retirement for a shorter-term solution, rather than long-term 
planning. But Ive seen no evidence that Portal challenged Mr Rs reasons for doing that. 
Indeed initially, in its first suitability report, Portal clearly recommended that Mr R should 
transfer out of his DB scheme, even though Portal later said that an alternative pension was 
unlikely to grow at the required rate. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to 
someone when they express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as 
applying the rigorous process of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client 
really is. And I dont think the process Portal followed was consistent with the regulator's 
expectation.
It follows that I dont think Portal treated Mr R fairly. I've also considered whats likely to have 
happened if Portal's advice not to transfer had been more robust and had followed a more 
effective process. And, had that been the case, I don't think Mr R would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme. I say this because Mr R had no investment experience 
and no urgent need for the funds. 
 
So if Portal had clearly and consistently presented that it wasnt in Mr Rs best interest to 
transfer out of his DB scheme and contrasted the short-term benefits of doings so against 
the loss of guaranteed income and benefits in retirement, I think hed have heeded Portals 
advice not to transfer the funds from his DB scheme. It follows that, if Portal had provided 
him with clearer advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Portals recommendation for Mr R to transfer his personal pension to a SIPPIts worth pointing out that from the outset Portals advice was that Mr R should transfer both 
his DB scheme funds and his personal pension funds into the named SIPP. Neither of 
Portals suitability reports go into any real detail about what benefits there were to Mr R to 
transfer his personal pension to a SIPP. Although the first suitability report does say that 
Portal believed the SIPP would deliver greater ongoing benefits than his current provider. 
But the report doesn't provide any analysis or figures to support that statement, so, I dont 
know how Portal arrived at it. And I dont think it set out why this was in Mr Rs best interests 
in its communications with him.
But, what I can say for certain, is that Portal gave Mr R the clear impression that by 
transferring his funds, from both pension pots, he could access TFC of £12,594. Ive already 
said that I don't think Portal should have recommended  at any point  that Mr R should 
have transferred his funds from his DB scheme. But Portal clearly made that 
recommendation initially and dangled the possibility of TFC in front of Mr R even though 
transferring from his DB scheme wasnt in his best interests. But what probably sweetened 
the deal in Mr Rs mind was the increased sums available because of the cash he could take 
from his personal pension. But, if Mr R wanted to access those funds at that time he had no 
need to involve Portal at all. 
In fact Mr R contacted Portal in June 2017, before it had made any recommendation, to say 
that his personal pension provider had told him that, if he wanted, he could access his 
benefits directly from it. Ive only seen a very brief note of that call, but Mr R apparently told 
Portal he was happy to stay with it. 
I havent been party to what Portal actually discussed with Mr R at the time to say what the 
benefits or disadvantages of staying with Portal were. But what is clear is that Portal 
changed its advice, and wrote its second suitability report, after Mr R told it he wanted to 
take taxable funds of £28,650 from his pension funds as well as his TFC. And while I think 
Portal did the right thing in telling Mr R that this was against its recommendation, because 
Mr R would essentially be significantly depleting his retirement funds, I dont think its advice 
went far enough.
Mr R apparently told Portal he wanted the additional funds so he could put a deposit down 
on a home. And he chose that sum in order to stay away from the 40% tax bracket. So the 
additional £28,650 wasnt the sum he needed in order to put down a deposit for an imminent 
home purchase, it was just the highest amount he could take without having to pay higher 
rate tax. But Ive seen no evidence that Portal asked Mr R how much the property he was 
intending to buy was or what deposit he actually required. And, in order to take the taxable 
sum as well as TFC Mr R would have to entirely clean out the funds from his personal 
pension and also take a significant chunk from his DB scheme funds. But theres little 
evidence that Mr R needed the full sum of (£12,594 + £28,650) £41,244 for an actual 
deposit, as it doesn't appear that he was actively seeking a property at that time. So Portal 
should have ran through Mr Rs other options with him. One of those options should have 
been to leave his funds where they were until such time as Mr R actually needed the money.
Another option would have been for Mr R to leave his DB funds untouched and to take the 
funds from his personal pension. Mr R was in a position to take cash directly from his 
personal pension himself. He didnt need Portals involvement in order to do that and this 
was something Portal was aware of. So, if hed insisted on accessing funds he could have 
taken all the money from his personal pension, which at that time was £30,332. That would 
have been made up of £7,583, which would have been payable as TFC and the remaining 
£22,749 would have been taxable. Those sums would certainly have allowed Mr R to 
achieve his objectives with money left over to put towards a deposit for a home, if that was 
what he wanted. And what Portal should have made clear to Mr R is that by taking that action he would not need to pay Portal its 7% fee for arranging the transfer from his personal 
pension. And in so doing he would be £2,123 better off.
Mr R wanted access to a sum at least equivalent to his entire personal pension plan fund. 
So, there was no reason for him to transfer his personal pension to a SIPP only to almost 
instantly deduct a sum that was more than the entire fund shortly after. That meant that the 
fund had no real prospect of any growth in such a short space of time, which could have 
been Portals only justification for arranging the transfer. But because Portal arranged the 
transfer that meant Mr R would have to pay Portal its 7% fee. There was simply no need for 
him to incur those charges. This is something that Portal should have been aware of and so 
should have brought to his attention. So even if Mr R insisted on taking TFC and taxable 
cash from his personal pension, he had no reason to transfer the funds into a SIPP first. 
Instead, at the very least, I think Portal should have made it clear to Mr R that he had 
nothing to gain by transferring his personal pension to a SIPP and then deducting the sums 
he was looking to take. It should have advised Mr R that if he was insistent on taking a 
higher sum then he should have taken it directly from his personal pension without paying a 
fee to Portal. It should also have advised him to leave his DB scheme in place, so he didnt 
lose its guaranteed benefits and which were likely to increase over time as the scheme 
trustees addressed the funding shortfall. But it didnt do that. And, if Portal had been clear 
with him that this was an option then he could have simply taken the funds from his personal 
pension. But he didnt do that because Portal didnt make it clear to him that this was better 
for him than transferring to a SIPP, paying fees to Portal for doings so and then taking the 
funds out of the SIPP.
It follows that I think that, given appropriate advice, Mr R wouldnt have transferred his 
personal pension funds to the SIPP. So I think Portal needs to, as far as possible, return 
Mr R to the position he would have been in but for its unsuitable advice. 
Our investigator recommended that Portal should address any losses Mr R suffered because 
of the transfer from his personal pension to the SIPP by calculating a notional value of what 
his personal pension would be worth now if hed left it untouched and comparing that against 
what the equivalent fund is worth now. She said that calculation should make adjustments 
for any sums Mr R had taken out of his fund. She also said Portal should compensate Mr R 
for any fees he wouldnt otherwise have had to pay. However, given that Mr R deducted a 
sum from his SIPP that was more than the entire value of his personal pension then I dont 
think there is any merit in Portal making the notional value calculation our investigator 
recommended. Thats because, after making the amendment for the amounts Mr R had 
taken from his funds, the notional value will undoubtedly be zero, which means that no 
compensation would be payable. 
But, as I've said above, if it wasnt for Portals unsuitable advice, Mr R could have accessed 
his personal pension funds directly from his personal pension provider. And in those 
circumstances he wouldnt have had to pay Portal's fee, which I understand was based on 
7% of the quoted transfer value. So, I think it would be fair for Portal to compensate Mr R for 
the fees he paid to it for arranging the transfer of his personal pension. And, as hes had a 
loss of use of that money, it should add simple interest to it at a rate of 8% a year.
Further as I think that, if Portal had given Mr R appropriate and clear advice about leaving 
his DB funds untouched he would have left those funds were they were, I think Portal should 
compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Portal's 
advice. Portal argues that this is the case, although it hasnt clearly explained why it believes that would be so. But, as I've said above I think if Portal had given clear advice that 
transferring his DB funds to a SIPP wasnt in his best interests he wouldnt have done so, 
particularly as he couldve taken funds from his personal pension if he was determined to 
take some cash. It follows that I think Portal needs to take appropriate steps, as set out 
below, to address Mr Rs losses.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if Portal had given suitable advice. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
For clarity, while Mr R has taken funds from his pension pot, he has not yet retired, and he 
has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Also, Mr R shouldnt have had to pay charges to Portal for arranging the transfer of his 
personal pension fund, as he could have accessed those sums without incurring a fee. So, in 
order to put him back into the position he otherwise would have been in I think Portal should 
reimburse Mr R for the proportion of its fee for arranging the transfer from the personal 
pension to the SIPP. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date Portal took payment to the date it reimburses him.
 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal to pay Mr R the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above.
Additionally I require Portal to reimburse Mr R for the fees it charged him in relation to the 
transfer of his personal pension funds into a SIPP. It should add simple interest to that sum 
as set out above. 
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman