DRN-3397407
The complaint
B complains about the service DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
provided in relation to a claim under its legal expenses insurance policy.
B is represented in this complaint by one of its directors. Ill refer to him as Mr I.
What happened
B is a company providing security training. In 2018 B agreed with a third party abroad to 
carry out some training the following year. But the third party stepped down from his position, 
the training wasnt arranged, and B treated the contract as cancelled. In around November 
2019, B raised an invoice for a cancellation fee of around £46,800, which the third party 
failed to pay.
Mr I appointed solicitors to chase payment but their letters in August and September 2020 
werent answered. Mr I made a claim on behalf of B under its legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
policy with DAS to cover Bs costs of taking further legal action against the third party.
Some issues arose initially about which court had jurisdiction over any legal claim and which 
panel solicitors should act. Counsel advised in December 2020 the claim should be brought 
in Scotland. DAS agreed B could instruct its own solicitors going forward and they were 
appointed in mid-December 2020. At around this time, Mr I complained to DAS about the 
handling of Bs insurance claim so far. DAS responded on 5 January 2021. They agreed 
their communication hadnt been of the quality theyd expect and offered B £250 
compensation. 
In mid-January 2021 the solicitors advised on the prospects of Bs claim against the third 
party succeeding. In summary they said:
It was reasonable to argue the Scottish courts had jurisdiction and that Scottish law 
governed the contract with the third party
It was clear the third party owed the sum B was claiming
Serving court proceedings on the third party might not be possible under the law of 
his country of residence; if he couldnt be served, it wouldnt be possible to sue him in 
Scotland
Prospects of success depended on serving the proceedings; if that was possible, 
they exceeded 51%. To establish that they needed advice from lawyers in the third 
partys country of residence
Enforcing a judgment abroad was generally difficult; Mr I thought there may be 
assets in the UK so that should be investigated
DAS agreed the recommendations subject to costings for the foreign lawyer advice. The 
solicitors obtained those by the end of March 2021. Foreign lawyers were appointed in 
around April, and their advice was available by mid-July. Mr I raised concerns about delays 
and conflicting updates from DAS and the solicitors during that time. 
In July 2021, having heard from the foreign lawyers, the solicitors advised:
B could sue the third party in Scotland and the prospects of success would be more 
than 51%
No assets belonging to the third party had been found in the UK; the law in the third 
partys country of residence prevented a judgment being enforced against any assets 
he might have there; so the prospects of enforcing a judgment were poor
Mr I thought the third party may have assets in another country; to establish that it 
would be necessary to get advice from lawyers there on enforcing a Scottish 
judgment and to establish if any assets existed 
DAS didnt agree to meet the additional costs of obtaining the further advice on grounds it 
related to action outside the territorial limit set out in Bs LEI policy. They said theyd made a 
mistake in covering the costs of the enquiries abroad so far and B would need to fund the 
costs of any further investigations. Even if assets could be found abroad, and there were 
reasonable prospects of enforcing a judgment there, DAS wouldnt cover the costs of 
anything beyond obtaining judgment in the UK. They paid the costs incurred so far.
Mr I decided not to go ahead. He was unhappy the claim had been going on for almost a 
year before DAS withdrew cover. He felt Bs position had been prejudiced as a result. DAS 
didnt accept that. They said when Mr I made the claim, an insured event had occurred as 
there was a dispute about a contract governed by Scottish law. Theyd withdrawn cover 
since Bs claim against the third party didnt have reasonable prospects of success. And 
DAS had met the costs of an asset trace they werent responsible for, to Bs benefit. DAS 
agreed communication had fallen below their own quality standards and upheld Bs 
complaint in part, offering £150 compensation. 
Mr I was unhappy with the outcome of the complaint so brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman on Bs behalf. Our investigator considered what had happened since DASs 
response to Bs previous complaint on 5 January 2021. She felt DAS should have declined 
the claim when the solicitors first said advice from a foreign lawyer was needed to determine 
prospects of success as the territorial limit provision in the policy wasnt met; and funding the 
investigations had given B the wrong impression, over several months, that its case would 
proceed. To put things right she thought DAS should pay a total of £300, including the £150 
theyd already offered, for the poor communication and inconvenience caused to B. B didnt 
accept our investigators view, so Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Is strength of feeling. I understand it was frustrating and disappointing 
when DAS withdrew cover for Bs legal claim. But since this is Bs complaint, I need to think 
about whether any mistake DAS made impacted B rather than Mr I as an individual. Im only 
concerned here with what happened after 5 January 2021 since B didnt bring its earlier 
complaint to this service within relevant time limits.
Under the LEI policy DAS provided B with cover for up to £100,000 of legal costs and 
expenses incurred by lawyers appointed to act for B in relation to any insured incident 
provided: 
a. the date of occurrence of the insured incident happened during the period of 
insurance and within the territorial limit; and
b. any legal proceedings would be dealt with by a court, or other body which DAS 
agreed to, in the territorial limit; and
c. reasonable prospects existed for the duration of the claim. DAS accepted an insured incident had occurred within the period of insurance. 
For Bs claim, the territorial limit was the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man, The Channel 
Islands and any other extension agreed with DAS. Im not aware any extensions were 
agreed. The policy required the insured incident to have occurred within the territorial limit 
and any legal proceedings to be dealt with by a court, or other body which DAS agreed to, in 
the territorial limit. 
When the solicitors advised in January 2021, they broadly agreed with Counsels earlier 
advice that a contract dispute arose in Scotland and came within the Scottish courts 
jurisdiction. So, it was reasonable for DAS to continue to think the insured incident had 
happened within the territorial limit. The issue that arose was whether the requirement that 
any legal proceedings would be dealt with in Scotland was met.
The parties disagree about what DAS knew about the third party and the location of his 
assets at the outset of the claim in October 2020. Mr I says he made it clear the third party 
was overseas and DAS led him to believe any action was covered under the policy. DAS 
had set out clearly in writing to Mr I when he reported the claim that prospects would be kept 
under review and the initial assessment of cover could change. So, B ought to have 
understood cover could be withdrawn as the claim progressed. Im not aware of any 
evidence from 5 January 2021 onwards that DAS told B theyd cover the costs of 
proceedings outside the territorial limit. 
Generally, DAS were entitled to rely on the advice the solicitors gave. Theres nothing 
obviously wrong or factually incorrect in the advice that DAS ought to have questioned. I 
think DAS could probably have withdrawn cover based on the January 2021 advice. DAS 
said later they were wrong to have agreed to instructing the foreign lawyers because of the 
territorial limit provision. Im not sure DAS, or our investigator, were right about that. But, in 
any event, I dont think that changes things as DAS were entitled to withdraw cover on 
grounds there werent reasonable prospects of the legal claim succeeding.
Reasonable prospects under the policy meant there was more than a 50% chance of B not 
only getting a favourable judgment, but also recovering its losses. In January the lawyers 
were optimistic about getting a favourable judgment but only if proceedings could be served 
on the third party and the judgment enforced. Since both were unknown, there werent 
reasonable prospects under the policy at the time. DAS could have given B the option of 
funding the overseas investigations. But instead they agreed to meet the costs. I dont think 
that was unreasonable. And B benefited from further enquiries being funded that technically 
it wasnt entitled to. B says its positions been prejudiced. Ill address that below.
I think it was reasonable for DAS to review and withdraw cover based on the solicitors July 
2021 advice. The enquiries had established it was possible to serve proceedings on the third 
party in his country of residence and the prospects of successfully suing the third party in 
Scotland were more than 50%. But the prospects of enforcing a judgment were poor since 
no UK assets had been found. So, the policy definition of reasonable prospects wasnt met. 
I can understand it was frustrating for Mr I that DAS declined cover after the investigations 
had been carried out, and before anyone knew if the third party had assets to enforce a 
judgment against - particularly when the prospects of getting a judgment seemed good. 
Mr Is suggested he would have made alternative arrangements to try and recover the 
money from the third party if hed known sooner DAS wouldnt continue to cover Bs claim. 
He says DASs late decision put Bs chance of recovering the money at risk. Im not aware of 
what alternative arrangements were possible or how DASs actions have affected recovering funds. There was nothing to stop Mr I from looking at other action while the investigations 
into a legal claim were ongoing. Im not persuaded anything DAS did or failed to do put B in 
a worse position. The steps DAS took benefited B in terms of establishing the prospects of a 
legal claim succeeding at no cost to B. And DAS said, fairly, theyd meet the costs of UK 
court proceedings if B established there were reasonable prospects of enforcing a judgment 
abroad. But B chose not to take that further. 
I can see Mr I contacted DAS several times between January and July 2021 to raise 
concerns about progress and conflicting information from DAS and the solicitors. The policy 
allowed DAS to pay the value of the claim if the costs would exceed it. So, it was reasonable 
for them to know how much the advice from overseas would cost. DAS delayed a short time 
after quotes were received, before confirming how the solicitors should proceed. But beyond 
that, the time things took was outside their control. When Mr I complained about conflicting 
information, DAS explained their position. And they passed on Mr Is concerns to the 
solicitors as Id expect. Any complaint about the solicitors would need to be made to them 
direct - Bs contract for legal services was with them. But, I acknowledge DAS gave Mr I 
conflicting information about why they withdrew cover and inaccurate information about 
some of the legal work carried out. And I accept this will have added to his concerns and the 
time B spent dealing with the claim. 
In summary, I dont think DAS mishandled the insurance claim. But I think theyve provided B 
with some inaccurate explanations that have led to confusion; and theyve caused a short 
delay. Thats impacted the time Mr Is spent on Bs behalf dealing with the claim - time which 
could have been spent on management issues.  
Putting things right
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for DAS to pay B £300 as 
compensation for inconvenience. 
My final decision
I direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay B £300 compensation for 
inconvenience inclusive of the £150 theyve previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman