DRN-2829413
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt offer him a mortgage on preferential terms, 
which he feels he was promised as one of the benefits of its premier bank account. Hed like 
it to offer a mortgage on better terms or compensate him for lost interest on his savings.
What happened
Mr P says he was thinking of moving his ISA from HSBC to another bank offering better 
rates in mid-2019. He says he opened a premier bank account with HSBC instead, as he 
was attracted to its offer of preferential mortgage terms for premier customers. This required 
him to leave his ISA savings with HSBC. He found a house and compared mortgages. He 
says for most people, including him, the premier mortgages offered by HSBC dont have 
better terms overall than its standard mortgages. He says HSBCs advertising is misleading.
Mr P says if hed known he wouldnt get a preferential rate hed have moved his ISA to 
another bank offering better rates. He asks that HSBC offers him preferential mortgage 
terms.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint again. He said the investigator hadnt addressed the crux of the complaint, that is 
whether the terms of mortgages offered to him were preferential. He said HSBC could have 
fixed the problem by reducing his product fee.
I issued a provisional decision to explain what I thought about this complaint. In summary, I 
didnt think HSBC had led Mr P to believe he would certainly be offered a mortgage on better 
terms than its standard mortgages. And I didnt think it fair to require HSBC to offer Mr P a 
mortgage on better terms or apply better terms to the mortgage Mr P has taken out.
Mr P didnt agree. He made detailed comments, including asking for changes in the wording 
of my decision. Mr P said he wants this service to establish whether he had a fair and 
reasonable chance to access a mortgage on better terms, and whether HSBC was 
misleading customers about the availability of preferential mortgages. He says hes made a 
new complaint about the premier bank account being mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says he kept his ISA savings with HSBC and took out a premier bank account because 
hed understood this would give him reasonable access to mortgages at preferential rates.
Mr P asked for changes to the wording of my decision. Ive made changes where I think it 
appropriate, and taken account of Mr Ps comments. In line with our informal approach I 
wont include the level of detail Mr P suggests. And I must be clear about what Im looking 
into here. A lot of Mr Ps comments after my provisional decision relate to the way HSBC 
described the premier bank account. However, Mr P has said this complaint isnt about 
whether the premier bank account was mis-sold. He says hes made a separate complaint 
about that. I wont be looking into or making any findings about whether the premier bank 
account was mis-sold. The complaint Im looking into here is what happened when Mr P 
applied for a mortgage. 
When Mr P applied for a mortgage he was disappointed to find out the premier mortgages 
offered by HSBC werent better (that is, cheaper) for him overall than mortgage from its 
standard range. He says the higher product fee cancelled out the lower interest rate, except 
for customers borrowing much higher amounts, or at lower loan to value ratios than him.
HSBCs website says it developed the premier mortgage service for premier customers. It 
says this service includes preferential mortgage terms on selected mortgage products. 
HSBC makes a commercial decision about the terms of the mortgages it offers, including the 
level of the interest rates and product fees. Like other lenders it takes a range of 
considerations into account when doing so, and this is likely to include the loan to value ratio 
and the amount of the loan. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that HSBC should 
increase the range of mortgages it offers so as to ensure all premier customers can benefit 
from taking out a mortgage from its premier range. The terms of the products it offers is a 
matter for its legitimate commercial judgement. 
Mr P has expressed views about whether HSBCs premier bank account was fairly 
advertised. He wants to know whether HSBC is misleading customers about the availability 
of preferential mortgages. Mr P says hes raised these concerns with the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) but hasnt heard back. Im sorry about that, but I think 
these wider concerns are better addressed to the regulator. 
Mr P says whether advertising is fair depends on a customers fair and reasonable 
expectations. He says, as a premier customer, he had a reasonable expectation that if 
underwriting criteria were met preferential terms would be available. Whether Mr P was 
misled about to the premier bank account and its benefits is better dealt with as part of his 
complaint about it being mis-sold. 
Mr P was disappointed that he wouldnt benefit from taking out a mortgage from the range 
available to premier customers. He found that, with the amount he wanted to borrow and the 
loan to value ratio, a mortgage from the standard range was cheaper. This might have been 
different if HSBC had reduced or waived the product fee. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require HSBC to offer a mortgage to Mr P on better terms than is available 
from its range, or to apply better terms to the mortgage hes taken out.
Mr P says if hed known he wouldnt get a preferential rate hed have moved his ISA to 
another bank offering better rates. He asked for compensation for this. I think this would be 
better dealt with as part of his complaint about the premier bank account being mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman