DRN-3015750
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the settlement offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited after 
she made a theft claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L took a home insurance policy with Admiral. She had unlimited cover for buildings and 
£50,000 for contents. She was covered for up to £25,000 for high risk items as part of the 
contents cover with a maximum of £1,000 per single high risk item.
She made a claim to Admiral after her home was burgled in 2019. Admiral agreed a 
settlement of the buildings claim and £25,000 to cover all the high risk items.
Ms L was unhappy with the settlement offered by Admiral for the remaining contents. It said 
for items where there was no evidence of proof of purchase or cash withdrawals, it would 
settle items worth up to £250 in full, half the value of items between £250 and £1,000 and 
not pay anything for items worth over £1,000. She was also unhappy that Admiral had made 
deductions of 10% a year in respect of wear and tear on clothing and shoes.
Ms L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She recommended 
that Admiral should:
refund all deductions for wear and tear charged at more than 15% plus interest;
settle items worth between £250 and £1,000 and items worth more than £1,000 in full but 
deducting depreciation of 15% if those items were either clothes or shoes plus interest.
As Admiral didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ls policy says that in settling a claim Admiral will deduct an amount for wear and tear to 
clothing including crash helmets. This sort of deduction is normal for insurance policies and 
so I dont see anything wrong with this in principle. Strictly speaking when deciding how 
much to deduct for wear and tear, each item should be assessed individually to determine its 
expected lifespan, its age, original cost and the amount of wear its suffered. This allows the 
insurer to assess how much a replacement would cost and how much of a deduction should 
be made. But this is a very time consuming process for the insurer and places an onerous 
burden on the policyholder because most people arent able to remember when they bought 
every item of clothing, what it was made of and its price. In light of this, insurers will often 
apply an average percentage deduction across all items. This means that for some items it 
will pay too much and others too little. However it will average out across all of the items.
Some of the items claimed for were shoes bought a few years ago. Ms L says that her policy 
didnt mention a deduction for wear and tear on shoes. Since Admiral stated that the term 
clothing included crash helmets, I think its reasonable to assume that the term was being 
used in its broadest sense of things that people wear. So I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Admiral to include shoes as clothing and apply a deduction for wear and tear to them. I also 
think its reasonable to treat scarves as items of clothing.
Many of the items of designer clothing and shoes appear to be in classic styles that are less 
likely to go out of fashion. Theres no evidence as to the amount of wear they suffered. But 
bearing in mind Ms Ls occupation was one that meant it was unlikely she wore these items 
to work and many items were the sort people would only wear on special occasions, I doubt 
that they had had heavy use. Sometimes these items actually increase in value over time 
despite being pre-owned. In the light of this a deduction of 10% a year seems excessive. I 
think a deduction of 15% overall would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For any insurance claim its a requirement for the policyholder to show that they have a valid 
claim. The issue in this case is not whether a burglary occurred, but whether Ms L has 
satisfactorily shown that she owned the items she claimed were stolen. We see many 
complaints where insurers havent paid claims (or have only paid some of the claim) 
because they dont think the policyholder has provided sufficient proof of ownership or 
purchase. Each complaint we see is considered on its own facts. 
Our general position is whilst theres a duty on policyholders to provide some form of proof of 
ownership or purchase, it isnt fair for insurers to expect them to provide proof for every item 
they are claiming. Similarly, we might consider it fair for insurers to expect some form of 
proof for expensive items such as watches and jewellery, but not for more general, normal 
everyday items. This is because even the most careful policyholder wont usually be able to 
prove purchase or ownership for every single item they own. The ideal proof is some sort of 
receipt. But there are numerous other forms of proof such as photos of the item, manuals or 
boxes that came with the item which well often consider sufficient. 
This isnt a case where Ms L hasnt provided any proof of ownership. In respect of the items 
where Admiral thought there was insufficient proof of ownership or purchase, in many cases 
she provided boxes, dustbags, authentication cards and/or pictures of them being worn. I 
note that Admiral accepted this sort of evidence for high risk items where Ms L didnt have 
receipts. The total number of items where Ms L didnt have any evidence of purchase or 
ownership was relatively small in relation to the number of items claimed for. This being the 
case I think it would be fair for Admiral to settle the claim for the remaining items in full 
subject (if applicable) to the deduction for wear and tear referred to above.
One of the reasons Admiral gave for declining the claim for the remaining items was that it 
had been given a fake authenticity card by Ms Ls daughter in support of the claim. Ms L 
alerted Admiral to this herself and so I think it was unfair of it to hold this against her.
There is no single item limit of £1,000 except for High risk items. 
 High risk items are defined in the policy as personal belongings owned by you or your 
family:
Any collectible items which are rare or unusual
Musical instruments or audio visual, photographic or sporting equipment
Computers, laptops, tablets and notebooks
Jewellery, watches, pearls, precious metals or stones
Pictures, prints or works of art
Stamp coin or other collections.
I dont regard the remaining contents (largely clothing, shoes and designer bags) as falling 
within this definition. So I dont think it was fair of Admiral to refuse to pay anything for those 
remaining contents which were over £1,000 in value.Putting things right
To put things right I think Admiral should:
refund all deductions for wear and tear charged at more than 15% plus interest*;
settle the claim for non-High risk contents worth between £250 and £1,000 and items 
worth more than £1,000 in full but deducting depreciation of 15% if those items were 
either clothes or shoes plus interest*.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and payable from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest due to Ms L, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to make the 
payments set out in the section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman