DRN-3351035
The complaint
Mr L complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) unfairly reviewed and closed his account. And 
returned funds held in it to the source accounts.   
What happened
In February 2020, Revolut carried out a review on Mr Ls account and subsequently placed a 
block on it. Mr L says he was abroad on holiday and not having the use of his account 
caused significant trouble and upset. 
Revolut asked Mr L to provide personal information about his business and banking activity. 
Mr L gave Revolut some information as part of this process. After carrying out its review, 
Revolut decided it could not continue to offer its service to Mr L in May 2020. 
Later, any remaining funds held by Revolut were returned to the accounts they were sent 
from. Unhappy with what had happened Mr L complained to Revolut. Unhappy with what it 
said, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. 
Revolut offered Mr L £20 to settle this complaint. Mr L declined. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. In summary, they concluded Revolut: 
- Acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting and reviewing 
Mr Ls account and it didnt cause any avoidable delay when doing so
- Followed the terms and conditions of the account when it closed Mr Ls account and 
its under no obligation to explain the reasons it did so
- Did nothing wrong when sending the remaining funds held in the account to the 
source accounts 
Mr L disagreed. He says Revolut should retrieve the funds it sent back to the remitting 
accounts and give them back to him. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr L, 
so Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing customers accounts.
So, Im satisfied Revolut did nothing wrong when it put Mr Ls account under review and 
restricted access to it while it did so. 
Revolut is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But, 
it must do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions of the account. The 
terms and conditions of the account, which Revolut and Mr L had to comply with, say that in 
certain circumstances it can close an account immediately. 
The relevant term says:  
We may close or suspend your account immediately, and end your access to our website, 
in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional circumstances include the following:
-if we have good reason to suspect that you are behaving fraudulently;
-if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information we need, 
or we have good reason to believe that information you have provided is incorrect or 
not true;
-if you've broken these terms and conditions in a serious or persistent way and you 
haven't put the matter right within a reasonable time of us asking you to;
-if we have good reason to believe that your use of the Revolut app is harmful to us or 
our software, systems or hardware; 
-if we have good reason to believe that you continuing to use your account could 
damage our reputation or goodwill; 
-if we have asked you to repay money you owe us and you have not done so within a 
reasonable period of time;
-if you've been declared bankrupt; or
-if we have to do so under any law, regulation, court order or ombudsmans 
instructions.
We may also decide to close or suspend your account for other reasons. We would contact 
you through the Revolut app at least two months before we do this
Having looked at the information given to me by Revolut - which I am under no obligation to 
disclose - Im satisfied it was entitled to close the account in the way it has done. For the 
same reasons, Im also persuaded Revolut acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to 
send the funds held in the account to the source accounts. 
Mr L says this matter has caused him financial loss and significant trouble and upset, 
especially as he was left without money whilst on holiday. I do appreciate this matter 
wouldve caused him some difficulty. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Revolut given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures, and acted fairly in relation to the actions its taken.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman