DRN-2220204
The complaint
Mr Ws representative has complained, on his behalf, about advice given to him by 
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd (FSW) to transfer his benefits from a defined benefit scheme 
(DBS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension policy (PPP).
The representative has said that the advice was unsuitable, both on the basis of Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the advice, and that the PPP benefits were 
unlikely to match those which would have been received from the BSPS successor scheme 
- BSPS 2.  
What happened
Mr W sought financial advice from FSW in August 2017 regarding his options for his 
deferred pension benefits in the BSPS (although the suitability report recorded that he had 
initially approached it in 2016).The existing scheme was due to be wound up in the near 
future, with the options being set out in a letter in October 2017 for deferred members to 
either transfer their benefits to the successor scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF), or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 
11 December 2017.
On 31 October 2017, and as later amended on 26 March 2019, FSW recorded Mr 
Ws circumstances at the time as follows:
He was 50 years old, single, with no dependants.
He had a little over £130,000 in savings.
He was earning just under £32,000 pa - a net monthly figure of £1,830 - with 
expenditure of approximately £1,030 per month. He therefore had disposable 
income of around £800 per month.
Mr W also had income from his savings of around £1,300 pa.
His target income at retirement was £12,360 to cover his expenditure.
He planned to retire at age 55, but would consider part time employment or a 
job share to continue working in some capacity if required.
If he retired at age 55, he would be one year short of having accrued a full 
state pension  payable at 67.
He had a low-medium attitude to risk.
He had a limited understanding of investments  he was described as having 
very little understanding of investing.
His membership of the BSPS had been from 15 August 1988 to 31 March 
2017  28 full years service.
Hed joined the recently introduced defined contribution OPS administered by 
Aviva, into which Mr W paid 6% and his employer paid £10%.
By the time of the amendments of March 2019, Mr W had bought a property, 
encumbered by a £105,000 repayment mortgage. His monthly repayment 
amount was £780, over 15 years.
In terms of Mr Ws deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, 
at which point FSW estimated that he could expect an annual income from the scheme 
of
£17,969, or tax free cash of £82,119 with a reduced annual income of £12,317.
If Mr W retired at age 55, FSW estimated that he would receive £10,950 pa, or tax free 
cash of £53,592 with a reduced annual income of £8,038.
Mr W received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £324,798 on 
18 September 2017.
He received a document entitled Time to choose in October 2017, in which his pension 
from BSPS 2 at age 65 was estimated to be £18,850 pa, or tax free cash of £86,144 and 
a lower pension of £12,921.
With a retirement age of 55, the pension was estimated to be £11,387 pa, or tax free cash of
£55,638 with a lower pension of £8,345 pa. This was based upon yearly increases to 
date, and assumed increases in the future.
The suitability report dated 23 November 2017 said that the BSPS had entered a 
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) and that, as a result, the deferred benefits 
would need to enter a new arrangement. Mr W was described as having lost faith in his 
employer and the management of the pension scheme, and that under no circumstances 
did he want his deferred benefits to be transferred into the BSPS 2 or into his current 
workplace pension arrangement with Aviva. Mr W was recorded as wanting to take control 
of his pension.
FSW said that it was now rarely possible for scheme members to retire early at age 55, 
and that it wasnt possible to take tax free cash and defer income in the scheme. Mr W 
was also concerned that, as he had no financial dependants, in the event of his death his 
accrued benefits could simply be retained by the scheme.
Mr Ws priorities, in order, were described as follows:
The potential to retire early
Personal control and flexibility of his pension funds
Maximising tax free cash at retirement
The potential to increase his pension at his realistic pension age
Provision for partners and dependants pension benefits
The retention of any guarantees
FSW recommended that Mr W transfer his BSPS benefits to a new arrangement for 
the following summarised reasons:
Mr W was concerned about the financial future of his employer and that it had 
changed its stance too many times on the pension scheme. The advice to 
transfer would ensure that the link to his employer would be broken.
He wanted to retire at age 55 and wanted the option of replacing his earnings 
using pension funding. Whilst early retirement was possible with the BSPS, this 
would be reduced to take into account that the pension would be paid for longer.
Transferring meant that Mr W would be able to withdraw as much income as he 
needed and could vary that income to suit his needs. This would become 
particularly relevant when he reached state pension age and could reduce 
income accordingly.He was prepared to accept the potential of lower income for greater flexibility.
The cash flow analysis undertaken had demonstrated that Mr W wouldnt run out 
of money in his lifetime through income drawdown.
The BSPS income would cease upon his death. But transferred benefits could 
be passed to whomever he chose as beneficiaries.
The BSPS scheme rules didnt allow Mr W to capitalise upon the newly 
introduced pension freedoms benefits.
Although the critical yield required to match the scheme benefits might not be 
achieved, FSW was still recommending the transfer as Mr W was concerned 
about retaining his benefits in the scheme.
Mr W didnt need the entire income provided by the scheme at age 55 and so, by 
drawing the income which he needed from age 55, at the projected mid-rate of 
return this could be sustained until age 86  his life expectancy according to the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS).
The BSPS was currently underfunded and this raised questions about its ability 
to pay pension benefits in the future. Due to the RAA, if he didnt opt to join the 
BSPS 2, his benefits would be transferred into the PPF. This wasnt an 
acceptable proposition for Mr W due to the inferior level of benefits. Mr W didnt 
want to join the BSPS 2 as he wanted to cut ties with is employer.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme. It concluded that the 
PPP would need to grow by 5.56% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a retirement age of 
65, or 4.18% pa if tax free cash was taken.
At a retirement age of 55, the PPP would need to grow by 12.09% pa to match the 
BSPS benefits, or 8.29% if tax free cash was taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This 
showed that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 4.21% pa to match the PPF 
benefits, or 3.73% if tax free cash was taken.
At age 55, the PPP would need to grow by 10.28% to match the PPF benefits, or 9.09% 
if tax free cash was taken.
The suitability report also recorded that Mr W was interested in the notion of the buddy 
transfer in which the protected entitlement to retire at age 50 in the scheme might be 
transferred to the receiving private scheme. FSW couldnt guarantee this, however, and 
said that it recommended that Mr W not attempt to access benefits from the receiving 
scheme until age 55  otherwise, there could be significant and penal tax 
consequences.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was £495, and if the recommendation to 
transfer was accepted, an additional fee would be levied and would be dependent upon 
the size of the transfer. This turned out to be a total of £6,500. A further ongoing advice 
fee of 0.5% of the fund value would also be charged.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and £324,798 was transferred to the PPP on 23 
March 2018.
Mr W has since complained to FSW on the basis set out above. FSW didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint, saying that the cash flow plans produced at the time demonstrated that Mr W 
would have been better off through transferring his benefits. This also showed that the income produced by the BSPS 2, coupled with other liquid assets, wouldnt have met Mr 
Ws requirements until the state pension began at age 67.
FSW also said that the projected income from BSPS 2 would, in todays terms be worth 
less when Mr W was 55  it calculated this to be around £10,700 pa.
FSW was confident that the value, as at June 2020, of the PPP would deliver future 
benefits which would match the scheme benefits.
It said that, given Mr Ws circumstances, it remained of the view that the transfer was 
suitable, and that he could still be better off through the transfer. In support of this, it said 
that Mr W had explained that he wished to take control of his pension, as his employer 
had altered the scheme arrangements four times since 2006, and hed lost faith in it as 
each change either resulted in lower benefits, or a change to the date at which benefits 
could be taken. A transfer to either the BSPS 2 or the PPF would have resulted in pre-
1997 accrued benefits having no inflationary increases in payment, plus a further cap on 
other benefits through the move to linking increases to CPI, rather than RPI.
Furthermore, FSW said, Mr W had sufficient knowledge to understand the risks involved 
in the transfer, and his need to provide a flexible income, along with some kind of 
financial legacy for his family in the event of his death, was met by the transfer.
It also noted that Mr W had since bought a property, with a mortgage over 11 years 
requiring repayments of £780 pm. FSW queried how this additional burden might have 
been met without the income flexibility provided through the transfer.
The transfer made it much easier for Mr W to retire at age 55 as he wouldnt have 
suffered the discounted rate which would have been imposed by the BSPS 2.
It was important, FSW said, for Mr W to be able to leave a financial legacy to his family. 
He had no spouse or children who would benefit from the scheme death benefit in the 
event of his death, but he wanted his extended family to be able to benefit from the value 
of his accrued pension.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ws representative referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter and recommended that the complaint be upheld. In 
summary she said the following:
The transferred sum represented a source of guaranteed income and was a 
significant part of Mr Ws pension provision. As an individual with a low-medium 
attitude to risk, the security of that income would have been important to him.
FSW said that Mr W was very concerned about the risk of the BSPS and BSPS 2 
failing. At that time, it was known that the BSPS would be moving into the PPF, 
which would pay 90% of benefits. There was no suggestion that the BSPS 2 would 
fail, and even if it did, the benefits would be moved into the PPF. So there was no 
justification for transferring on the basis of either scheme failing.
The regulator said that, when considering a transfer of defined benefits from an 
OPS, an advising business should assume that it was unsuitable and not in the 
clients best interests, unless it could be clearly demonstrated otherwise.
A starting point for this type of consideration would be whether there was a 
reasonable chance of the transferred benefits being better than those of the ceding 
scheme. The investigator noted that the advice had been given after the final 
guidance (FG17/9) had been issued by the regulator as to how businesses could 
calculate future discount rates in loss assessments where a complaint had been 
upheld.These didnt need to be used when giving advice, but the investigator thought they 
were a useful indicator of what growth could reasonably be achieved when the 
advice was given.
Noting the required yields to match the BSPS and PPF benefits at age 55 (as set 
out above - 12.09% and 10.28% respectively), the investigator said that it was 
reasonable to assume that the critical yield for the BSPS 2 might fall somewhere in 
between. But the closest discount rate, or in other words realistically achievable 
annual growth, at the time of the advice for a further investment period of four years 
to retirement was 3%.
This meant that, to simply match the OPS benefits, the PPP would need to grow at 
four times the rate deemed achievable by reference to the discount rates. Given Mr 
Ws low-medium attitude to risk, the investigator considered it unlikely that his 
pension benefits could achieve this.
Mr W would have needed to take a much higher risk than his attitude to risk 
suggested was suitable for him in order to have the chance of matching the 
scheme benefits.
The investigator nevertheless considered whether there were other compelling 
reasons for Mr W to have transferred. She noted that Mr W didnt have a spouse or 
children, to whom scheme benefits could have been paid. But although she 
considered Mr Ws recorded desire to leave a legacy to his family (e.g. nephews), 
she didnt think this benefit would justify Mr W relinquishing guaranteed benefits for 
himself and risking a lower income in retirement.
The investigator added that the purpose of a pension was to produce retirement 
benefits, rather than an inheritance. And Mr W had other savings which could be 
left to his family in the event of his death.
Although it was recorded that Mr W wanted to access his pension flexibly, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded that the available evidence supported this notion, or 
why he needed that flexibility. She considered that the record of Mr W wanting the 
confidence of his income meeting his expenditure was indicative of the importance 
to him of a steady income stream.
Overall, the investigator didnt think that the advice to transfer had been suitable for Mr W. 
She didnt consider that there were legitimate reasons which would have justified Mr W 
relinquishing the valuable guaranteed benefits within the ceding scheme. And she was of 
the view that, had FSW advised Mr W to join the BSPS 2, he would have done so.
As such, she recommended that FSW conduct a loss assessment in line with the 
regulators guidance. She also said that it should pay Mr W £300 in respect of the trouble 
and upset that the matter would have caused him.
FSW disagreed, however, saying that it maintained that the advice was suitable for 
reasons previously given in responding to the complaint, but added the following in 
summary:
On the basis of analysis it had carried out, it believed that in 99 out of 100 
scenarios, the PPP would have achieved the same value as the scheme benefits. 
It said that, although this wasnt 100% certain, as Mr W was willing to take a risk 
for the sake of higher income, a one in 100 risk wouldnt seem unreasonable on 
his part.
Mr W wouldnt have needed to settle for the discount applied by the BSPS 2 if he 
retired at age 55. He also had greater flexibility with the PPP.
The BSPS 2 was by no means a certainty at the time of the advice. It needed a 
certain number of members for it be viable. Had it not been established, Mr W 
would have been stuck in the PPF, where he would have suffered a 10% reduction 
on his pension benefits.Mr W had over £140,000 of savings as well as other assets. It didnt seem 
unreasonable for him to take a small risk with his pension.
Mr W was genuinely frightened about entering into the BSPS 2 or PPF, as 
evidenced by text messages it had supplied to Mr Ws representative. Mr W was 
concerned about the financial stability of his employer and the BSPS 2.
Mr W was asking to be transferred out of the scheme, and was challenging the 
speed of the process. FSW recommended the transfer as it believed it to be the 
most suitable outcome.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
At my request, the investigator has put the matter of the fixed fee for advice of £495 to 
both parties. My initial observation was that it appeared that this would have been 
charged irrespective of the outcome, and should therefore be deducted from any redress 
due if the complaint was to be upheld
FSW has agreed that it would have been payable and that, if upheld, it should be 
deducted from any redress due.
Mr Ws representative, whilst agreeing with the investigators outcome, disagreed that the 
fee should be deducted from any redress. In support of this, it said that the client 
agreement said the following:
Our charge for this service is a fixed fee of £495 payable on provision of the report 
containing our recommendations to you. This fee will be waived wholly or in part should 
you decide to implement any of our recommendations.
Mr Ws representative said that, if FSW had given a suitable recommendation, for 
example to enter the BSPS 2, and Mr W had implemented that recommendation, the fee 
would have been waived.
At my further request, the investigator has also notified both parties that, if the complaint 
was to be upheld, the appropriate comparator for redress purposes would be the transfer of 
the scheme benefits into the PPF. The investigator explained this was because the early 
retirement reduction is less punitive in the PPF and would more than offset the 10% 
reduction in the initial pension income. A spouses pension would be marginally higher with 
the BSPS2, but the investigator explained this wasnt a significant factor here in any case.
Mr Ws representative responded to say that when Mr W first met with FSW, he had no 
expectations regarding early retirement. He was happy to keep working until age 65, or to 
work on a part time basis. But when he was led to believe that this would be possible with 
a transfer, he inevitably indicated that this would be his preference. And so any reference 
in the fact find or suitability report to early retirement being an objective should be viewed 
in that context.
The investigator confirmed that I was satisfied that early retirement was a key objective for 
Mr W, and that Id noted that Mr W had said that, due to the physically demanding nature 
of his role, he couldnt see himself remaining in it beyond age 55.
The investigator also said that, although I was aware of the communication to scheme 
members in October 2020 about the proposed buy out of benefits, rather than them 
entering the PPF, if the complaint was upheld it would be my intention to direct any 
redress calculation to be undertaken on the current known basis, rather than on the basis 
of any future enhancement (considered unlikely, albeit not impossible, in Mr Ws case).Mr Ws representative noted the investigators comments and confirmed that Mr W 
would have no objection to any redress calculation being undertaken on the proposed 
current basis.
In response to these issues, FSW said the following:
Mr W was clearly against joining either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. This position was 
supported by notes in the fact find.
Its own transfer value analysis had projected that the PPF would likely have paid 
higher benefits from age 55, but this was excluded as a possibility as Mr W was 
seeking flexible benefits and a variable income stream.
The BSPS trustees own time to choose document leaned heavily in favour of 
members taking up the option of entry into the BSPS 2 rather than the PPF. With 
specific regard to early retirement, it said that the PPF early retirement terms werent 
currently 10% more generous than the benefits offered by the BSPS 2.
Mr Ws priority was that his benefits shouldnt enter the PPF due to the 10% 
reduction in starting income and reductions in future revaluation rates. Future control 
over his pension funds wouldnt have been possible with the PPF, but could have 
been with BSPS 2, albeit with a likely reduced transfer value due to lower overall 
benefits.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance which applied at the time FSW advised Mr W 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like FSW, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
FSW needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Ws objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than 
when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary 
evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation 
to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits 
being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of FSWs advice to Mr W in the context of the 
above requirements.
FSWs rationale for transferring
FSW has said that Mr W had decided that he wanted to transfer his pension benefits away 
from the BSPS to take control of them and to cut the link with his employer. But even if I 
accept that Mr W was already inclined towards this course of action before he met with 
FSW, Mr W was nevertheless seeking advice on his options. Mr W wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so FSW could be confident that he would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, FSW undertook its fact finding for Mr W and then set 
out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives.
In its own review of the matter, FSW summarised Mr Ws objectives as follows:
Provide greater flexibility for the timing of taking benefits and available death benefits.
Retire early, at age 55. Avoid the PPF.
Take control over the pension fund and require flexibility which allows you to change 
the income in line with your needs.
Accept the enhanced Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV).
I therefore explore these further below.
Early retirement
The scope for early retirement was a key stated objective, and was a repeated theme 
throughout Mr Ws dealings with FSW. Put simply, he couldnt see himself working full 
time beyond age 55 due to the physically demanding nature of his job. But I have 
concerns relating to the way the options around this were then represented. The 
language used around the scope for this within the BSPS was pejorative  referred to in 
both the original advice and in FSWs complaint response as invoking a discount on the 
benefits from the scheme.
But the reality was of course that, just as a PPP would have had less time to grow, and 
any resulting income would need to last longer  and therefore a likely smaller pot with a 
lower annuity rate (if the benefits were taken in that format) - so the scheme trustees 
would need to adjust the income Mr W would receive by retiring early. But this type of 
balance was absent from the explanation given to Mr W. The PPP was described as 
simply allowing for early retirement, without the discount which would be applied by the 
scheme.
Mr W also expressed interest in the buddy transfer possibility, because this meant that 
he might still be able to retire at the age of 50, as my understanding is that this had been 
protected under the scheme rules when the earliest age for drawing on private pension 
arrangements had increased to 55.
Given what Mr W had said about the physically demanding nature of his work, I dont 
think this interest was either unsurprising or unreasonable. I think its entirely possible that 
he might have envisaged wanting, or perhaps needing, to take advantage of this facility 
before age 55. But this was effectively dismissed by FSW as being something which 
should be presumed to not carry over into the PPP, without any real examination as to 
why this potential facility might have had some real significance for Mr W.
Ive also noted that the suitability report said, with regard to early retirement, that the rules 
of the BSPS have changed over the years and now it is rarely possible to be granted early 
retirement at age 55. I havent seen the evidence for this assertion, but my understanding 
is that early retirement from both the BSPS 2 and the PPF would have been possible.
The option to retire early was therefore present within the scheme options available to Mr 
W, and would be adjusted to take account of the fact that it would be in payment for longer. 
This would be the same for an annuity income from a private arrangement, or as would be 
the case with drawdown, the funds would have less time to accrue value and would need to 
sustain a longer period of payment. I dont therefore consider the option to retire at 55, which was in any case available from the BSPS 2 and the PPF, to be a sound justification 
for transferring to the PPP.
Concerns about the BSPS, BSPS 2 and the PPF
This was arguably, judging by FSWs account of Mr Ws motives for transferring, the key 
driver here. But Mr Ws concerns should have been addressed and appropriately managed. 
I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or worries about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
I dont think this happened here. And had reassurance been given about the 
protections which would still be available, even in the worst case scenario of the 
scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think Mr W would have viewed things 
differently.
For example, although the successor scheme would need a certain number of members 
to render the proposal viable, there was no reason to believe the prospect of this not 
happening was more likely than the chance of it successfully being put in place. And 
although my understanding is that additional funding would need to be input for a scheme 
such as BSPS 2 to be able to exist without a sponsoring firm, as it turned out, Tata Steel 
agreed to be the sponsoring firm, which meant an altogether improved position was 
likely, with the resulting BSPS 2 able to benefit from profitability within that company. 
I dont think the evidence supports the position that the prospect of the BSPS 2 was 
properly explored with Mr W. There are brief mentions of it in the suitability report, but the 
emphasis was very much placed on the outcome  and negative implications - of the 
scheme instead entering the PPF.
But even if the successor scheme wasnt deemed viable, and the scheme benefits 
entered the PPF, many important guarantees would remain. And the PPF had already 
made the following announcement on 16 May 2017, before the advice was given:
We can confirm that the key commercial terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) have been agreed in respect of the British Steel Pension Scheme and 
anticipate discussions concluding in the near future. This would meet our published 
principles, including that an insolvency event of the schemes sponsoring employer, Tata 
Steel UK, would otherwise be inevitable. Any RAA is subject to a 28 day period following 
an agreement leading to Pensions Regulator approval and PPF non-objection.
Following the RAA, it is anticipated that if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to 
funding and size can be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by TSUK will be set 
up.
Members would then be given the opportunity to move to this new scheme prior to the 
existing scheme being assessed for entry to the PPF. Members of the scheme can be 
reassured that we are there to protect them throughout this process and they will be able 
to receive at least PPF levels of compensation, should they remain in the scheme and 
BSPS enter the PPF assessment period.
So there were inherent guarantees here - known at the time of the advice - which would 
constitute levels of compensation at least equivalent to the PPF. And for the reasons given, 
my view is that Mr W would in fact have obtained the best value by entering the PPF. But I 
dont think the value of these guarantees, or what this would mean for Mr W, was fairly conveyed in the suitability report. Again, this option was effectively dismissed on the basis 
of Mr Ws own understanding that there would a 10% reduction in scheme benefits  with 
no exploration as to why this nevertheless represented an important source of pension 
benefit guarantees.
Death benefits
FSW has also said that the death benefits offered by the transfer would be more beneficial 
to Mr W and his extended family  and that Mr W was concerned that most of his accrued 
benefits would be lost in the event of his premature death.
After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiaries, rather than in the 
form of dependants pensions from the scheme. But there are several issues here  the 
first is that, although Mr W seemingly had a physically demanding job, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits were of concern at that 
point.
The second is that, as recognised by the investigator, accrued pension provision is 
intended to provide for an individuals retirement  as a reminder here, this was almost the 
entirety of Mr Ws provision, and he had no spouse or other financial dependants  rather 
than a legacy for members of an extended family. On that particular point, Ive noted that 
one of the alternatives to transferring was described as being to take out an unaffordable 
whole of life policy to provide a lump sum equivalent to the transfer amount to Mr Ws 
beneficiaries. But as far as Im aware, that simply wasnt necessary. He had no financial 
dependants. So discounting an alternative solution for a problem which didnt exist was 
something of a red herring here.
And finally, the death benefits provided by the BSPS or the PPF were potentially valuable 
for Mr W in the future. A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some 
situations the ability to pass a lump sum to a beneficiary could be particularly advantageous 
when compared to an income stream through a spouses or dependants pension. But 
although Mr W may have expressed no intention to remarry in the foreseeable future, he 
was only 50 and I cant see that he had entirely ruled out the possibility. And so it remained 
possible that a spouses or dependants pension of some description may yet have had 
some value.
So I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for extended family members by way 
of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for him personally.
Income requirements and flexibility
Mr Ws income needs were well documented by FSW, and I can see that extensive 
cash flow modelling was undertaken on his behalf.
Mr Ws expenditure in 2017 was assessed as being in the region of £12,360 pa. FSW has 
said that, taking into account the effect of inflation, Mr W might reasonably have expected 
to receive around £10,700 pa from the BSPS at age 55. I think this would have been 
higher from the PPF. But he also had investment income of around £1,300 pa from his 
substantial savings of in excess of £130,000. The shortfall from the guaranteed scheme 
benefits might therefore have been around £400 pa, but I think this is something which Mr 
W could comfortably have made up by drawing upon his savings, if necessary, until his 
state pension further boosted his income beyond his requirements at age 67.
Mr W did, after the advice, buy a property with a mortgage of £105,000 and a monthly mortgage repayment of £780, which, deducting the rent payments he would no longer be 
making, would have increased his outgoings by around £500. But again, this is 
something which Mr W could comfortably have absorbed through accessing his savings 
until the state pension age of 67.
But moreover, Mr W had also said that he would consider working in a reduced 
capacity from age 55 onwards, and there was a comfortable amount of headroom in 
his income versus expenditure to accommodate a reduction in the former.
So my view here is that there wasnt an income need which couldnt have been satisfied 
by Mr Ws prospective BSPS income and other resources at his disposal. He therefore 
didnt need to transfer to meet his income needs.
Ive therefore then thought about the flexibility argument, in that Mr W could alter the 
income he withdrew from the PPP (or a subsequent flexi-drawdown arrangement) to 
satisfy changing income needs. But its unclear as to why Mr W would have needed such 
flexibility. Mr W had in fact expressed a keenness for steady, reliable income. As noted by 
the investigator, the suitability report said that Mr W would like to have the confidence of 
knowing that you are able to meet your expenditure. This is precisely what he could have 
relied upon from the BSPS, its successor scheme, or the PPF.
FSW said that Mr W could have confidence of his income matching his expenditure with 
the PPP if rates of growth matched expectations. But this is, in essence, at best 
conditional, and at worst false, confidence. And given Mr Ws limited investment 
experience, I have to wonder to what extent he would have had confidence in unknown 
investment returns producing the required income for the rest of his life, but for the 
reassurances offered by FSW.
One thing is certain, however  had Mr W been advised to not transfer, he wouldnt 
have needed to rely upon uncertain future investment performance to provide the 
income he required.
With that in mind, Ive further noted that FSW predicted that, at the mid band rate of 
growth, Mr Ws income from a flexible drawdown arrangement would last until he was 86, 
his life expectancy according to the ONS. But even if investment returns bore this out for 
more than thirty years, this does rather beg the question as to what Mr W would then rely 
upon if he lived longer than this, and at a time of life where aspects such as care home 
fees might reasonably require a regular, guaranteed level of income.
Im not, therefore, satisfied that flexibility of income withdrawal was a sound justification 
for the transfer, when a steady, guaranteed income would otherwise offer Mr W the 
peace of mind he sought.
Ive then considered the critical yield quoted by FSW. FSW has itself commented that the 
figure of 12.09% pa to match the scheme benefits at age 55 was unlikely to be achieved 
by the PPP. And it could only really be achieved by taking a relatively high level of 
investment risk.
Determining Mr Ws attitude to risk doesnt seem to have been a straightforward process 
for FSW, as there were contradictions in the statements contained in the risk assessment 
questionnaire. But I am satisfied, given the information recorded, that Mr W was plausibly 
categorised as a low-medium risk investor.
As noted by the investigator, the advice was given after the regulator had issued its final 
guidance on the redress methodology to be used in cases where complaints were upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to the discount rates produced by that guidance when 
giving advice on pension transfers, but they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in 
this case. And the discount rate cited at the time of the advice was 3% pa for a time period 
of 4 years to retirement.
The required critical yield was clearly comfortably in excess of this - and also 
significantly exceeded the mid-band growth rates used by PPP providers when 
providing quotations  including the provider in this case.
So, as noted by the investigator, to achieve an annual investment return of over 12% 
to simply match the scheme benefits, Mr W would have needed to take investment 
risks significantly in excess of those he was either prepared, or in a position, to take.
And in my consideration of this, Ive further thought about Mr Ws capacity to take risks 
with his pension funds. These pension benefits represented the mainstay of Mr Ws 
retirement provision  hed been a member since 1988 and had accrued nearly 29 years 
service. He had recently joined the defined contribution scheme offered by his employer, 
but this was a relatively small pot, which is unlikely to have accrued further significant 
value in the number of years left until he was 55. It also didnt have the same guarantees 
as those attached to the BSPS.
I note that, although FSW has maintained that the PPP benefits would match those in the 
scheme with just a small amount of risk to Mr Ws pension, Mr Ws fund value would 
have needed to be in the region of £540,000 to match the benefits offered by the scheme 
at age 55. And given the high critical yield to match the PPF benefits, I think its likely that 
a similar fund value would be needed to match those.
This compared to a transfer value, four years previously, of around £325,000. The PPP 
provider used for this transfer, at a mid-band growth rate of 1.3% pa, predicted a fund 
value at age 75 - so 20 years beyond age 55 - of £352,000. A different illustration using a 
growth rate of 3.8% pa projected a fund value of £367,000 at age 55. FSW has said that 
Mr W viewed the transfer value as being generous. But it was up to FSW to explain why, 
on the basis of the fund required to match the relinquished benefits, this was unlikely to 
have been the case.
So overall, I dont think Mr W needed flexibility of income, and nor am I satisfied that, 
given his keenness for a steady income stream, he wouldnt simply have been better 
served by retaining his guaranteed pension income in either the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
What should FSW have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ws decision?
FSW has said that Mr Ws other objectives outweighed the necessity for a guaranteed 
income stream to be matched by the PPP benefits. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, 
I dont consider these reasons to be sufficiently compelling to justify the transfer from an 
environment of guaranteed pension benefits to one in which no such guarantees existed.
FSW has said that there were serious concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the 
advice - and I fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great 
uncertainty for individuals such as Mr W, combined with short timeframes to make 
potentially life changing decisions. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr W was a 
balanced appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about his own concerns relating to the BSPS and potential successor 
schemes. Mr W, amongst many others in a similar position, may have been concerned by 
developments relating to British Steel, the BSPS, and the potential of entering either of the 
successor schemes, but he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was 
in any case achievable within the BSPS, and would have remained so in either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of 
flexibility of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied 
that Mr Ws income needs could have been comfortably met by accessing all of the 
resources available to him.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ws concerns about the existing scheme 
and the links to his employer could have been successfully allayed, such that he 
appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be 
relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he simply didnt need, and a future 
pension which would be dependent upon investment returns.
Tax free cash, if required, was available from his scheme benefits and growth over the 
medium term would be achieved by way of regular revaluations. Death benefits were also 
payable from the BSPS, albeit in a different format to those available from a PPP. But I 
dont think a potential death benefit for his nephews should have been a more important 
consideration than Mr Ws own, personal benefit which hed be relinquishing through the 
transfer.
I think there was a lack of balance within the suitability report. My overriding sense is that 
FSW took Mr Ws concerns about the BSPS and the links to his employer and, for want of 
a better phrase, ran with them. The guarantees available in the scheme were rarely 
described as having any positive benefit, and if they were, my view is that the predominant 
message was that the scheme represented a range of restrictions and penalties, such as 
the inability to alter income, or the discount applied for early retirement.
And I also have concerns about FSWs willingness to recommend the transfer at a critical 
yield of around 12%, just to match the scheme benefits, which it itself described as unlikely 
to be achievable. The critical yield is a very telling indicator of the value of the benefits 
being relinquished. FSWs justification for transferring, despite the very high likelihood that 
the scheme benefits couldnt be matched (and certainly not with the type of investment risk 
appropriate for Mr W), was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ws stated 
objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. FSW has restated this in its response to the 
complaint.
And whilst I accept that a critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what FSW considers to have been the 
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. At 
least one of the key objectives  early retirement - could in any case have been met by the 
BSPS or the PPF. And as Ive also said above, there needed to be a much more balanced 
assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects for Mr W to be able to make a 
properly informed decision.
And I dont think any potential lack of awareness of the detail of the BSPS 2 and its 
features in any case changes the outcome here. Even if there was the prospect of Mr Ws 
funds entering the PPF, my view is that, taking account of his circumstances, including his 
attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have 
persisted, FSW should have advised against the transfer.I think that, had it done so  and provided a more balanced and candid assessment of his 
options - Mr W would have followed that advice and left his deferred benefits where they 
were. Mr W would then have transferred to either the BSPS 2 or, as I think is more likely, 
the PPF.
summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case 
leads to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr 
W. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ws low-medium attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk required to match the scheme benefits  a 
failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of Mr 
Ws options and the benefits available from the BSPS  a failure to adhere to COBS 
19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
I also have significant concerns about the way in which the critical yield, itself a key 
indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished, was largely dismissed on the basis 
of the other issues involved and the described benefits of the transfer. But these other 
issues, or alleged problems, with the BSPS were in my view misrepresented, and at least 
one of the key benefits sought by Mr W and available with the PPP, such as early 
retirement, was in any case available from the ceding and successor schemes.
Had FSW taken proper account of Mr Ws attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds 
and matched that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it would have realised 
that it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or the PPF, could be 
bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were in my view 
insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being 
relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then 
have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ws best 
interests.
In closing, Ive noted the comments of Mr Ws representative on the issue of the fixed fee, 
but Im afraid I disagree. The purpose of the wording in the client agreement was clearly, 
in my view, to remunerate FSW for the considerable amount of work it would undertake in 
reaching any conclusion on this matter.
I dont think the wording in the agreement envisaged a situation in which a 
recommendation, following the work undertaken, might result in there being no possibility 
of remuneration. And so, whilst I agree it could have been phrased better, it intended there 
to be a non-contingent aspect of the payment. And more importantly, on any fair and 
reasonable interpretation of the agreement, I think Mr W would have understood this to be 
the case  and employed FSWs services on that basis.
  
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr W, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Financial 
Solutions Wales Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ws deferred benefits 
isnt possible. Therefore, Financial Solutions Wales Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As Ive said above, my view is that, had Mr W not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, 
he would have opted to join the PPF. I acknowledge that one of Mr Ws recorded concerns 
was the 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF  which Ive addressed above as being a concern which should have been better managed in the 
context of relinquishing a guaranteed income. The BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting 
entitlement for deferred members, but the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was 
lower and, although Ive also noted the comments in the time to choose documents about 
early retirement and the 10% starting reduction, I think it would have more than offset that 
reduction. The commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more 
favourable under the PPF.
And so Im confident that both the starting income and the tax free cash at age 55 
would have been higher with the PPF. I also note that FSWs own projection 
demonstrated that, from age 55, the benefits would have been higher with the PPF.
If Mr W did remarry, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. But although he may have later married, as Mr W was single at the time of 
the advice, I think any enhancement in spouses benefits would have been of secondary 
importance to his own pension benefits.
Within BSPS 2, for service after 5 April 1988 and up to 5 April 1997, the scheme would 
include a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) element increase in line with CPI, capped 
at 3% pa. Mr Ws service accrued between 5 April 1997 and 5 April 2005 would also be 
increased in line with CPI, capped at 5% pa, and then 2.5% pa for his service thereafter. 
But again, I think the advantage of the higher starting income in the PPF would more have 
more than made up for this.
And so its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used for comparison purposes.
As Ive set out above, Im aware of the recent announcement regarding the proposed 
insurance buy-out of the benefits currently under PPF assessment, which is scheduled to 
occur towards the end of 2021. Its been confirmed that, when this happens, all members 
whose PPF benefits would be less than their full scheme benefits (i.e. the amount they 
would be if the scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) will see an increase to their 
benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the buy-out.
For the reasons given, my view is that Mr Ws benefits from the PPF at age 55 would in any 
case have been better than those he could expect from the BSPS 2, and so, whilst I cant be 
certain on this in advance of knowing the actual terms of the buy out, I think he would fall into 
the latter category and would experience no change to his benefits as a result.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the PPF should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. Financial 
Solutions Wales Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Financial Solutions Wales Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Financial Solutions Wales Limited to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Although my conclusions, as set out above, are that Financial Solutions Wales Limited gave 
Mr W unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits, Im nevertheless conscious of the fact 
that Mr W sought advice on his options, and Financial Solutions Wales Limited would have 
charged a fee for its financial analysis  quoted as being £495.
Therefore, and for the reasons given above relating to this, from the total amount of any loss 
calculated above may be deducted the sum of £495.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Financial Solutions Wales Limited to pay Mr W 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Financial 
Solutions Wales Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Financial 
Solutions Wales Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Financial Solutions Wales Limited pays Mr W the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Financial Solutions Wales 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Financial Solutions Wales Limited. Further, 
its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
As with the investigator, I consider that the advice given by Financial Solutions Wales Limited, 
and the associated loss of guaranteed benefits in retirement, will have caused Mr W no small amount of distress. As such, I also consider that a further payment of £300 is warranted here.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Solutions Wales Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr W 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman