DRN-4189973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy and with the service they received. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were due to go on a cruise. Mr N completed the health declaration form sent 
by the cruise company before boarding. He declared that hed had a cough. As a result, 
Mr N was told he couldnt go on the cruise, due to the cruise companys policy. 
Mr N claimed on his travel insurance policy, but the claim was declined as IPA said there 
was no cover. Mr N complained to IPA, but they maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. However, they acknowledged that Mr N had received poor customer service and 
offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr N complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought the claim had been fairly declined in line with the policy terms and the compensation 
offered was fair. Mr N didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
highlighted the poor service hed received and raised concerns about the information 
contained within IPAs notes. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but Im not upholding this complaint because: 
There are limitations on the cover available for cancellation due to Covid-19 under 
the policy. Mr N wasnt testing positive for Covid-19 and he wasnt required to 
self-isolate so there was no cover under the cancellation section for Covid-19. 
Mr Ns holiday couldnt go ahead because of the cruise companys own policy on 
Covid-19 symptoms. Thats not an insured event under the policy. 
Ive taken into account that there is cover for cutting a trip short if a policyholder is 
denied boarding at the UK departure points because they have Covid-19 symptoms. 
But this wasnt what happened in the circumstances of this case. Mr N had recovered 
and was denied boarding because of the cruise companys internal policy. And, due 
to the guidance from the cruise company, Mr and Mrs N didnt go to their 
international departure point.   
Ive dont think would be fair and reasonable to direct IPA to cover the claim outside 
of the policy terms and conditions. Mr N was unable to go on holiday due to the 
cruise companys policy on Covid-19  thats not his insurers fault. I dont think its 
fair to direct Mr Ns insurer to cover the cost of the holiday thats not an insured 
event. 
Ive taken into account what Mr N has said about the claims handling notes and the 
customer service he received. However, I think compensation of £100 fairly reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service he received. 
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman