DRN-2599780
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a deposit paid for a car.
What happened
Mr H paid a deposit of £500 for a car, but later changed his mind and asked that his money 
be returned. The merchant refused and said that he had asked for the car to be modified and 
he had been made aware the deposit was non-refundable.
Mr Hs recall of the events has not been wholly clear. The merchant wrote to Mr H on 13 
December 2019 setting out its understanding of events. It said says Mr H inspected the car 
test drove it and some days later paid the deposit on 1 November 2019 by phone. It says 
that during the phone call he asked for modifications to be made and he was told the deposit 
was non-refundable.
The letter records that Mr H called the merchant on 6 November to say he wished to cancel 
his order due to his partner losing her job. However, the following day he called again and 
left a voicemail that he wished to proceed as his partner had retained her job. That day it 
emailed Mr H to say the car would be ready for collection on 23 November, but Mr H didnt 
respond and didnt collect the car. The merchant said it had incurred cost in excess of £500 
for the modifications Mr H had requested.
Mr H asked MBNA for his money to be refunded. MBNA made a chargeback which was 
rejected by the merchants bank and it rejected his claim under section 75. Mr H brought his 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. 
He believed MBNA had attempted the chargeback in a timely manner and had kept Mr H 
informed. It wasnt responsible for the outcome of the chargeback. As for the section 75 
claim he said the key was the call on 1 November. While Mr H said he wasnt made aware 
the deposit wasnt refundable the merchant said otherwise. He noted the information on the 
merchants website which said deposits werent refundable.
He also noted Mr H hadnt disputed the merchants claim that he had asked for medication 
when he raised the matter with MBNA. He also noted Mr Hs voicemail message of 7 
November in which he said he did want the car.
Mr H didnt agree and said the merchant had changed its website since he made his claim. 
He added that he had a young family and he was ill. He didnt think he had been treated 
fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr H, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why. 
I will address the matter of the chargeback first. Chargeback is a process that is provided by 
the Card Scheme. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a 
problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The card scheme 
checks the nature of the problem against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether 
the claim will be successful. If the bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't 
have to raise a chargeback.
In this case the chargeback was made by MBNA, but it was rejected. MBNA has no say over 
that and I believe it pursed the claim properly. 
The second issue is the claim under section 75. This offers protection to customers who use 
certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the 
consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer 
providing the goods or services, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The chain is not broken and that leaves me to consider if there is either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. 
Mr H says he wasnt told the deposit wasnt refundable. The merchant disputes this and says 
it is out of pocket as a result of the modifications it made at Mr Hs request. I agree with Mr H 
that there was no reference to the treatment of deposits on the merchants web site at the 
time of the transaction. However, that doesnt mean deposits were refundable. I suspect it 
added that section to give clarity after Mr Hs claim. 
It is unusual for a deposit put towards a car to be refundable. Looking at the history of events 
as set out by the merchant which seems credible to me, I can see no basis for the deposit 
being refundable. I accept the merchant carried out the modifications and it is more than 
likely that it would not have been able to recover those costs in a subsequent sale.  
In short, I dont think Mr H has provided enough clear evidence that he was entitled to the 
return of his deposit to allow MBNA to accept his claim. I appreciate his personal 
circumstances, but those do not allow me to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman