DRN-3487596
The complaint
Miss M complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss M had arranged to borrow £750 from Loans 2 Go. That loan was 
cancelled the same day it was arranged so Miss M didnt incur any costs and it isnt being 
complained about. 
But Miss M felt that, due to her credit record, Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided a further 
loan she applied for and she said it didnt properly check affordability. Miss M told us she 
had an ongoing gambling problem at the time and Loans 2 Go wouldve seen this if it had 
asked for her bank statements. 
The main details of this loan are as follows:
Date opened Loan status Loan 
amountInstalments Highest 
Repayment
29/9/2021 Outstanding £3,000 24 months £362
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Miss M with this loan and so he upheld the complaint and set out the steps Loans 2 
Go should take to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said it didnt think that 
the results of its credit report were sufficient to suggest that further checks were necessary 
and its checks were proportionate. 
Loans 2 Go asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go make a fair 
lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.Loans 2 Go asked Miss M about her income and expenditure and did some credit checks  
which it has sent me. Loans 2 Go hasnt explained in detail how it worked out its affordability 
calculation but I've taken into account the information Loans 2 Go gathered from Miss M and 
noted that it did its own background checks to verify Miss Ms income. I think its fair to say 
that its affordability assessment suggested that Miss M had ample disposable income after 
taking into account her monthly expenditure and it appeared that she should have been able 
to afford the monthly repayments for this loan.
But, given what it saw in the credit report it acquired showing details of Miss Ms credit 
history, I think our adjudicator was right to be concerned about Loans 2 Go making its 
lending decision without doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify the information 
it was relying on. 
I say this because:
Miss M was signing up to make the loan repayments for the next 24 months. I think 
that was a long enough loan term to go beyond what would be a reasonably 
foreseeable period to expect complete stability in her finances 
Loans 2 Go saw information showing that within the last 30 months Miss M had 
evidently struggled to repay a previous loan and the lender had closed her 
account so she had a default balance of £3,503 showing in her credit history. 
This wasnt explained by anything Loans 2 Go had seen and it hasnt shown me it 
asked about how this had come about. So I dont think it was reasonable for 
Loans 2 Go to assume that Miss Ms financial difficulty was behind her or that the 
same money problems wouldnt arise again
Loans 2 Go also saw that Miss M was overdrawn on a current account by an 
amount equivalent to almost a full months verified salary  so it didnt seem likely 
that she would be able to return the account to a positive balance and maintain 
her account in credit unless there was some significant change in her financial 
situation.
So, I dont think Loans 2 Go was able to be satisfied on the information it had in front of it 
that it could safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss M.
I think it would have been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to have taken further steps to 
independently verify the true state of Miss Ms finances and it needed to do more in-depth 
checks to ensure it properly understood her financial situation before agreeing to provide this 
loan. 
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Miss M has 
provided her bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Loans 2 Go was 
likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have 
done this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to 
Miss Ms finances at the time. And had Loans 2 Go looked in depth at Miss Ms finances it would likely have seen that she 
was facing serious problems managing her money. 
I think it would have learned that Miss M was consistently overdrawn in the months running 
up to her applying for this loan  often approaching her £2,000 overdraft limit. She was 
repaying multiple other lenders of high cost credit as well as borrowing from family members 
and she was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that it was likely Miss M would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way.
For these reasons, I am upholding Miss Ms complaint that she should not have been given 
the loan.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way. 
So I havent identified any reason for me to award any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed.
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss M keeping in mind the need to treat her positively 
and sympathetically if she needs further time to pay. Loans 2 Go shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off.
 remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Miss M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman