DRN-2135672
The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her husband Mr B, complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
(HC) mis-sold her a finance agreement.
What happened
On 1 July 2018 Mrs B acquired a new car costing £24,000 funded by a deposit of £11,500 
and the balance with a conditional sale agreement. Mr B says there were some issues with 
the car, but these have been addressed by the Motor Ombudsman. 
In June Mr B made a complaint to Kia on his wifes behalf. Mr B said his wife wasnt given 
any information about the agreement, including the APR and had been told she could only 
pay the agreement off after three payments. He believed his wife had been pressurised into 
taking the finance agreement, having originally planned to pay for it outright. He felt she had 
incurred interest charges unnecessarily. Although the agreement was signed by Mrs B it 
seems her husband undertook the negotiations.
HC contacted the dealer and listened to a recording of a call on 18 June 2018 in which Mr B 
discussed the price of a new car. He was asked if he wanted to pay cash or to obtain finance 
and he wanted to end the agreement early. He was advised that he shouldnt cancel early 
and was told that he could do so after three months. 
In mid-July Mr B contacted HC to discuss settling the agreement and he was told this could 
be done and there would be no penalty charge. He deferred settling as there was fault with 
the car. HC says he discussed making a payment which would reduce the monthly 
payments to £0.01 leaving the balloon sum due.
The dealer said it would have explained the agreement to Mr and Mrs B including the 
interest charge and HC said it didnt have grounds to conclude the agreement had been mis-
sold. However, as the dealer had not been completely clear about the option for Mrs B to 
pay off the agreement early it paid her £25 compensation. 
Mrs B then brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He explained that for him to be able to 
agree there had been misrepresentation he would have to satisfied that a false statement of 
fact was made to Mrs B and that induced her into entering into the agreement.
He said that Mr B had explained that his wife was asked to do the retailer a "favour" by not 
settling the agreement within three months as they'd be investigated. He didnt think Mrs B 
was told she couldnt settle the agreement within the first three months. It was simply that 
the dealer asked her not to as a favour by the sales manager when she collected the car.
He also noted Mrs B had signed the documentation for the loan agreement confirming she 
had understood the terms. Mr B didnt agree and said there was phone call which would 
prove the agreement had been mis-sold and the fact HC had paid his wife £25 showed it had 
done something wrong. Our investigator obtained the calls and after listening to these didnt 
think there were grounds for upholding the complaint. Mr B didnt agree, but has provided no 
further material for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence presented by both parties and having listened to numerous 
calls between Mr B and HC I do not believe I can uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B who has said he led the negotiations with the dealer, even though the car was bought 
by Mrs B says he shopped around for the best deal. Mr B says he and his wife had the funds 
to buy a car outright, but he was told he would save £1,500 if the car was bought with a 
finance agreement and that seemed to be the sensible decision. As a result, his wife entered 
into a conditional loan. 
I have looked at the relevant documentation and I can see that the terms are set out clearly. 
I cannot say what actually occurred during the sales process, but I have not been given any 
persuasive evidence that would allow me to conclude that Mrs B had been misled as to the 
nature of the agreement she signed. 
He says he was told his wife shouldnt pay the finance off until three months had passed. I 
cannot day what precise wording was used, but he has indicated that the dealer suggested it 
would be a favour to them. I presume that if the agreement was paid off in less than three 
months it would affect the commission which would be paid to the dealer.
However, I note that Mr B spoke to HC about paying the loan off in July and it appears that a 
decision was made not to do so due to the ongoing dispute about the rattle in the tailgate. It 
seems Mr B understood that having HC to support him in his dispute with the dealer may be 
of benefit. 
Furthermore, I can only consider comments made before the purchase as later ones would 
not have been the cause of Mrs B taking out the agreement. I think it likely that at the time of 
purchase the dealer asked that it be maintained for three months as a favour rather than as 
direct advice on the legal position.
However, HC has accepted that the advice given about the dealer about deferring paying off 
the loan wasnt as complete as it should have been and has paid Mrs B £25 which I think is 
fair. I dont believe this advice had any material impact on the decision to maintain the 
finance agreement.
Overall, I dont believe that HC has done anything materially wrong.
My final decision
Hyundai Capital UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £X to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Hyundai Capital UK 
Limited should pay £25 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman