DRN-3560146
The complaint
Mr B and Ms O are unhappy with the service they received from U K Insurance Limited when 
they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Although they are represented, Ill refer to representations having been made by Ms O 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr B and Ms O were on holiday when Ms O had a fall which left her with a serious injury to 
her arm. Shes unhappy with the emergency assistance she received from UKI which, she 
says, meant she was left in a lot of pain and with lasting difficulties in relation to her injury. 
Ms O also wanted UKI to pay for medication she had to buy. 
Ms O complained but UKI didnt provide a final response letter. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought UKI 
hadnt handled the claim promptly or fairly. She recommended UKI pay £1500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. She also thought UKI should cover the costs of 
the medication Ms O received abroad (plus 8% simple interest) and an amount equivalent to 
Ms O and Mr Bs portion of four nights accommodation costs as their holiday had been 
effectively cut short.  
Ms O accepted the investigators findings but UKI didnt. They acknowledge there were some 
failings in the service Ms O received but they didnt agree the impact justified the award the 
investigator had recommended. They also said Ms O hadnt claimed for medication costs so 
8% simple interest shouldnt be payable, and the policy didnt cover loss of enjoyment. So, 
they asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im upholding this complaint and directing UKI to pay £1500 compensation, a proportion of 
Ms O and Mr Bs accommodation costs and the cost of Ms Os medication (plus 8% simple 
interest on that cost). 
I say that because: 
I dont think Ms O received an acceptable level of service from UKI. For example, 
UKI has acknowledged Ms Os case should have been categorised as full 
assistance as it was clear she may need assistance with the return journey to the UK 
due to the nature of her injuries. But it was incorrectly categorised, and I think this 
most likely impacted on the level of service she received. 
There was also a lack of proactive communication from UKI to Ms O. When Ms O 
provided some medical documentation to UKI they didnt tell her they needed more 
information. This didnt happen until UKI were chased for an update and UKI has 
acknowledged this could have been obtained more quickly had they handled the 
case more proactively. 
UKI should have maintained more regular contact with Ms O and it should have been 
made much clearer to her what was happening at each stage in the repatriation 
process. Whilst UKI were reviewing medical evidence and looking into repatriation 
options I think they could have kept Ms O updated about their progress and the likely 
timescale for getting her home. 
This was at a time when Ms O was in a lot of pain and when she knew she needed to 
get home for surgery. She was left feeling as if UKI werent helping her and that she 
needed to make her own plans to get home. This couldve been avoided by clear and 
proactive communication throughout the claims handling process.
When UKI did contact Ms O there were other issues which caused her further worry. 
UKI mentioned that they were booking a spare seat for her so that she had space on 
her left side. But that wasnt the side Ms O was injured on. Whilst I appreciate that 
there was no practical impact, as Ms O could have sat in either seat, I can entirely 
understand why this caused her further distress. UKI had received, and reviewed, the 
medical evidence so they should have known which side the injury was on. All of this 
caused her further worry that UKI didnt understand her situation. 
Ms O made her own arrangements to travel home. The journey was uncomfortable 
and very painful for her. UKI says this would have been avoided had they organised 
the repatriation so, in summary, thats not their fault. Im not persuaded by UKIs 
arguments on this point. As Ive outlined above, the communication and overall 
service Ms O received was poor, taking into account her injuries and the level of pain 
she was in. So, I think its understandable she lost confidence and trust in UKI. Ive 
found her testimony on this point to be credible and persuasive. I also note she was 
receiving a lot of pain relief which further supports her testimony. 
Overall, I think its understandable Ms O didnt have confidence that UKI was 
handling her claim in the way it should. Had the communication been clearer shed 
have understood what UKI was trying to achieve and the timescales. 
Ive thought about what UKI has said about the impact on Ms O. Theyve said, in 
summary, its unclear whether Ms O could have been repatriated any earlier due to 
issues with sourcing flights and potentially needing medical clearance if it was 
required by the airline. But this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall 
outcome of this complaint. There were a number of mistakes, delays and 
miscommunications throughout the life of the emergency assistance claim. And, I 
think they had a big impact on Ms O at a time she was worried, in pain and in need of 
help. I think she rightly expected more from UKI when dealing with an emergency 
assistance claim such as this. And I think £1500 fairly recognises the acute distress 
and inconvenience she experienced during this time.   
Im satisfied Ms O and Mr B werent able to continue with their holiday as planned. 
Following her accident, the focus was on getting Ms O home for surgery and 
managing her pain. Although the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment it does cover 
cutting a trip short due to the illness or injury. I think its fair and reasonable to conclude Ms O and Mr Bs holiday was effectively cut short on the date of the 
accident.   
I think UKI could have been proactive about offering to settle Ms Os medical 
expenses. They were aware of them in 2018 and didnt explain to Ms O what 
information theyd need to settle them. When Ms O complained about her 
experience, UKI didnt respond. So, there was a further missed opportunity to sort 
things out. Taking all of the above into account I think UKI should pay 8% simple 
interest on these costs. 
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms Os complaint and direct UKI to put things right by paying her: 
£1500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not handling her claim promptly 
and fairly  
The proportionate cost of Mr B and Ms Os accommodation from the date of the 
accident to the end of the holiday as it was effectively curtailed from the date of the 
accident. 
The cost of her medication plus 8% simple interest. 
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B and Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B and 
Ms O a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Mr B and Ms O should be aware that are likely to need to provide UKI with some further 
information and documentation in order for UKI to determine the correct amount and the 
applicable excess.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr B and Ms Os complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman