DRN-4446365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd 
(Campbell) failed to invest £90,000 they transferred to it to top up their portfolios in May 
2022.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs N held a series of investments across a number of different providers. Their 
investments were managed by an advisor at Campbell that the couple knew well. 
In May 2022, Mr and Mrs N transferred Campbell a total of £90,000 across five separate 
payments. Of which, the couple recall £40,000 was to be divided between their ISAs. And 
the remaining £50,000 was to be used for a standalone investment, held jointly by Mr and 
Mrs N. 
The couple were led to understand all of the above payments were credited to their 
investments. And on the one occasion where they needed access to it, Campbell paid Mr 
and Mrs N £15,000 of this money in November 2022.  
The couple had cause to doubt that Campbell had properly invested their money when they 
were contacted by the FCA, whod begun an investigation into the firms conduct. This 
prompted them to speak to a number of their investment providers. And Mr and Mrs N came 
to realise Campbell hadnt invested their money as itd told them it would. Their money was 
inexplicably missing. 
Mr and Mrs N complained to Campbell. They demanded that it return their money with 
interest. Campbell didnt reply to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint, so they referred the matter to 
our service. 
Our investigator made efforts to contact Campbell and obtain its response to Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. One of our investigators spoke to a solicitor working on behalf of the advisor. The 
solicitor confirmed Campbell and its advisor were aware of the complaints made against it. In 
the absence of any formal response from Campbell, our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. They felt the couple should be compensated for their financial losses, and for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd suffered due to Campbells actions. 
To date, our service has received no explanation for, or defence of the issues Mr and Mrs N 
have raised in their complaint against Campbell. Because of this, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
Mr and Mrs N have other similar complaints about different deposits they made with 
Campbell. But my decision here will focus solely on the £90,000 the couple paid Campbell in 
May 2022. 
I wrote to all parties to explain that, provisionally, it was my intention to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ns complaint. This is what I said: 
At the outset, Id observe that given the subject matter and implications of Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint, its quite extraordinary that Campbell has failed to respond to it in any meaningful 
way. Im satisfied however that its appropriate for me to proceed with my decision on this 
complaint.
Our rules, outlined in DISP 3.5.9 R explain that I may reach a decision on the basis of what 
has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information 
requested. And that is what I intend to do in Mr and Mrs Ns case.  
As a regulated firm, when dealing with its customers, Campbell is required at all times to 
uphold a series of high-level principles set by the FCA. Amongst other things, the principles 
outlined in PRIN 2.1.1 R require that: 
A firm must conduct its business with integrity A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence... A firm must observe proper standards of market 
conduct A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Where investments are concerned, these principles are further bolstered by the rule in 
COBS 2.1.1 R, which requires that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. 
Mr and Mrs N have evidenced they made payments totalling £90,000 to Campbell. This 
figure is comprised of a series of smaller amounts that were paid to the firm between 10 May 
2022 and 18 May 2022.  
From the evidence available, its not been possible to establish that this money was invested 
as Mr and Mrs N recall agreeing to. The couple have identified that £50,000 of it was due to 
be held as a joint investment, and the remaining £40,000 was intended to be divided equally 
between their ISAs for that years subscription. Our investigators have spoken to Mr and Mrs 
Ns investment providers and theres no evidence that any of this money was paid to where it 
was supposed to be. Their ISAs show no credits during the tax year in question. And the firm 
supposedly responsible for the joint investment claims that it does not exist. 
I note that, seemingly on demand, Campbell was able to produce £15,000 of Mr and Mrs Ns 
money when they requested it in November 2022. But from the evidence available to me, 
theres no evidence that would suggest Campbell ever invested the couples money as it 
should have. I have seen no evidence that would give me pause to doubt Mr and Mrs Ns 
submissions on these points. 
In my opinion, if Campbell and its advisor had accepted the couples money in the course of 
legitimate business, it would be relatively straightforward for it to refute their complaint. As a 
firm thats authorised to give advice and arrange investments for its customers, I would 
reasonably expect Campbell to provide evidence of: 
Arrangements and recommendations for any investments its sold. 
Paperwork substantiating the appropriateness or suitability of those investments.  
Diary notes or phone calls recording occasions those investments were discussed. 
The fact Campbell has failed to provide any such evidence is extremely concerning. As is 
the fact that according to the FCA register, Campbell doesnt appear to have ever been 
authorised to hold client money. Mindful of this, and in the absence of any counter-narrative defending itself, Im persuaded that Campbell has failed to invest Mr and Mrs Ns money as 
it should have. And by doing so, its failed to uphold the principles and requirements I 
referenced earlier in my decision. Im satisfied that Campbell has failed to treat Mr and Mrs N 
fairly. 
It remains for me to fairly and reasonably decide what Campbell must do to address the 
impact its actions have had on the couple. 
Putting things right 
As Ive understood it, Mr and Mrs Ns expectations were that the money theyd paid to 
Campbell and its advisor was to be invested in their ISAs, and one other standalone 
investment. 
From the evidence available, I can see the couples ISAs were held with a firm Ill refer to as 
Platform A. Within each ISA, Mr and Mrs N both invested in a model portfolio product 
provided by Platform A called WealthSelect Managed Active 5. So by failing to invest their 
money as it should have, Im satisfied Campbell has caused Mr and Mrs N to miss out on the 
growth that £40,000 of their money wouldve made had it been properly invested in Platform 
As model portfolio, via their ISAs.  
Campbell appears to have told Mr and Mrs N that the remaining £50,000 of their money was 
to be invested in a joint product with one of the firms the couple understood they held 
investments with. Its not clear what this investment was meant to be however. And having 
spoken to the investment provider directly, we understand the investment never actually 
existed. So Campbell has caused Mr and Mrs N to lose out on growth they couldve made on 
this £50,000, albeit its not clear where this money should have been invested instead. Ive 
therefore considered what Campbell must fairly and reasonably do to address the financial 
loss its caused the couple in this respect. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair of me to use Platform As WealthSelect Managed Active 
5 portfolio as a benchmark for gauging the couples loss on their £50,000. Mr and Mrs N 
have held this same investment within their ISAs for some time. It appears to me to be a 
reasonably diversified product which is broadly in keeping with what they consider their 
attitude to risk as being. Im persuaded therefore that its broadly reflective of the kinds of 
returns theyre likely to have achieved, if Campbell had invested their money properly as Im 
satisfied it should have done. 
Ive kept all of the above in mind when deciding what Campbell must fairly and reasonably 
do to return Mr and Mrs N as close as possible to the position they wouldve been in, had it 
treated them fairly and invested their money as it should have.   
Firstly, I direct that Campbell must pay Mr and Mrs N the sum of £75,000. This figure 
encompasses all of the deposits Mr and Mrs N made in May 2022, less the £15,000 they 
were paid by Campbell in November 2022. 
Next, I direct that Campbell must calculate the growth Mr and Mrs Ns May 2022 deposits 
would have made, had they all been promptly invested in Platform As WealthSelect 
Managed Active 5 portfolio. For the purposes of this calculation, I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect that Campbell ought to have invested these deposits the same day 
they were received. So on 10 May 2022, 11 May 2022, 13 May 2022, 16 May 2022, and 18 
May 2022 respectively. Campbell should calculate growth on these investments up until the 
date it settles this complaint. Campbell should also factor in that a £15,000 withdrawal 
wouldve been made from this investment in November 2022. Completing this calculation will leave Campbell with a monetary figure Ill refer to as Figure X. Campbell must provide a 
breakdown of its calculations for Mr and Mrs N in a clear and simple format. 
Once it has completed this calculation, I direct that Campbell must pay Figure X to Mr and 
Mrs N.
Finally, Ive considered what Campbell must fairly and reasonably do to compensate Mr and 
Mrs N for the significant trouble and upset the events of their complaint have caused them. 
In coming to my decision here, Ive considered that: 
Mr and Mrs N recall having a relatively informal relationship with their advisor, and 
the realisation theyd been deceived as to the whereabouts of their money will have 
been upsetting for them. 
The couple have been distressed by the realisation their portfolio had around 
£75,000 less in it than it should have. And willve been left in this anxious state for 
months, not knowing if thered ever be given their money back. 
The couple have suffered the inconvenience of having to prepare submissions for 
both the FCA and our service, all as a result of Campbells failure to properly invest 
their money as it fairly and reasonably should have.    
Because of this, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to direct Campbell to pay Mr and Mrs N 
the sum of £450 in recognition of the impact its actions have had on them. 
Mr and Mrs N accepted my decision. Campbell did not reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to the findings I made, I see no reason to depart from the outcome 
I reached in my provisional decision. All that remains is for me to make my decision final, 
which I shall now do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint 
against Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd. 
I require that the firm must now: 
Pay £75,000 to Mr and Mrs N
Calculate Figure X (as directed above) 
Give Mr and Mrs N a breakdown of its calculations in a clear and simple format
Pay Figure X to Mr and Mrs N 
Pay Mr and Mrs N £450
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman