DRN-3713198
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) provided her with credit she
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Capital One approved two credit cards for Mrs G. One in March 2021 with a credit limit of
£1,500 that has never been used, and one in September 2021 with a limit of £1,000.
Mrs G says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her and she also
says they didnt consider her vulnerability when lending to her.
Capital One disagree. With regard to the second application that they approved in
September they say they used a combination of credit reference agency, computer
modelling, and self-reported information to assess the application. They say that Mrs Gs
credit file demonstrated she was managing her credit commitments well; there were no
County Court Judgments against her, and no arrears on her accounts. They identified some
historic defaults but still thought the information suggested the card was affordable for
Mrs G.
Our investigator agreed and she noted that they werent aware of Mrs Gs vulnerabilities until
after the credit card was approved, so she didnt think it fair to suggest they should have
dealt with Mrs Gs application any differently.
Mrs G didnt agree and thought the credit was unaffordable, so the complaint has been
referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mrs Gs health problems and the impact this issue was having 
on her.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not considering the first credit card application. Thats because Mrs G didnt use the
card and therefore hasnt paid any interest or charges on it or benefitted from the credit on
the card. So, even if I thought this card had been irresponsibly provided I wouldnt be able to
ask Capital One to return any payments as none have been made.
The September 2021 application
I think the checks Capital One completed were reasonable and proportionate. But that
doesnt necessarily mean the lending decision was fair. So, Ive thought about what the
information theyd collected showed them and whether that meant the credit was affordable
for Mrs G.
Mrs Gs credit file showed several defaulted accounts. The accounts had been defaulted
between October 2016 and May 2018. £25,206 of the £26,679 of defaulted balances
remained unpaid.
Whilst they were historic defaults and Mrs Gs performance on her credit file had improved, I
think the significant balances due on these accounts was troubling. Mrs Gs income was only
£10,000 and it was therefore unclear how she would pay the debts if court proceedings
enforced them. It would have been apparent from the reducing balances that Mrs G was
paying something towards the defaulted balances, and creditors may therefore have been
happy to continue receiving payments rather than incur trouble and expense enforcing the
debts, but that couldnt be guaranteed.
The credit being provided was a tenth of Mrs Gs total income, so it wasnt inconsiderable.
Capital One knew that Mrs G had other revolving credit available to her. The credit file
showed them that with this card, her mail order accounts, and the other credit card Mrs G
had with them, the revolving credit available was £3,475.
When considering whether credit was affordable Capital One needed to assume Mrs G had
drawn down the entire credit limit available to her and I think that, along with the significant
defaulted account balance, would have suggested, even without completing further checks,
that it was irresponsible to increase Mrs Gs indebtedness further.
I dont think Capital One were aware of Mrs Gs vulnerability before they made their lending
decision, so I dont think they needed to take account of that when they made the decision to
lend. As they are now aware of it I would expect them to be supportive of Mrs G if theres a
balance on the account she is struggling to pay. They should agree an affordable repayment
plan with her.
My provisional decision
As I dont think Capital One should have approved the second credit card application I dont
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges. However, Mrs G has had the benefit of
all the money she spent on the account so I think she should pay that back. Im therefore
expecting to tell Capital One to:
1. Refund all interest, charges, and insurances Mrs G paid (which have not already
been refunded). 2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding balance by the 
amount calculated in Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, ensure that it isnt
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a
positive balance the amount in question should be given back to Mrs G with 8%
simple interest*.
4. Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Gs credit file as a
result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it does, the business must give the
consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One accepted my provisional decision and Mrs G wanted to add a few comments. 
She explained that she had told Capital One about her financial situation and vulnerability 
and the mental and physical impact this was having on her. She said that shed received a 
work capability assessment in July 2020 and that had established she had health conditions 
that meant that she was unable to work, she said she sent confirmation of that to Capital 
One. She went on to explain she had also sent a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form in 
August 2021 which explained she was experiencing mental health issues.
Ive not asked Capital One for clarification they received this information as I dont think it 
would change my decision to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I dont think it suggests Capital One 
should take any additional action either. It wouldnt be fair, for example, to tell them to refund 
the capital provided as well, as Mrs G has had the benefit of that money. But the information 
does support the provisional decision I reached.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with evidence that has led me to change my provisional decision and 
that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Capital One (Europe) plc to:
1. Refund all interest, charges, and insurances Mrs G paid (which have not already
been refunded). 
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding balance by the amount calculated 
in Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, ensure that it isnt
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a
positive balance the amount in question should be given back to Mrs G with 8%
simple interest*.
4. Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Gs credit file as a
result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it does, the business must give the
consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman