DRN-4522262
The complaint
Mr G has complained on behalf of the Estate of Mr S about how Fairmead Insurance Limited 
(Fairmead) dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
References to Fairmead include agents and companies working on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G contacted Fairmead to make a claim for an escape of water on behalf of the Estate of 
Mr S. Fairmead accepted the claim. Mr G later complained about poor communication from 
the loss adjuster. Following this, arrangements were made for the loss adjuster to contact Mr 
G.
Mr G complained again because he remained concerned about how the claim was 
progressing. When Fairmead replied, it explained the steps required to validate the claim. 
This included it requiring evidence that some of the items quoted for were impacted by the 
escape of water. It also explained the process around appointing a surveyor.
A short while later, Mr G complained again about the loss adjuster. When Fairmead replied, 
it described what had been happening on the claim. It confirmed that the loss adjuster had 
spoken at length with Mr Gs surveyor. It also hadnt identified any unnecessary delays 
during the time period covered by the complaint. Fairmead also confirmed it had reviewed 
whether it should make a payment to cover a council tax unoccupancy charge. It said it 
wouldnt cover these charges. However, it noted some slight delays in responses, for which 
it offered £100 compensation.
When Mr G complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
there were delays at the start of the claim because Fairmead initially declined the claim due 
to an unoccupancy clause. He also noted that Mr G thought discussions could have taken 
place about the scope of works earlier than they did and that Fairmead said it needed a 
breakdown of estimates to agree a settlement. He said Fairmead didnt need to contribute to 
the council tax surcharge. But said it should pay an additional £150 compensation to the 
Estate of Mr S for the delays and actions by Fairmead.
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 December 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Mr G has complained that Fairmead didnt handle his claim fairly. The regulators rules say 
that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they must not turn down 
claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about this.
When Mr G first contacted Fairmead to make a claim, Fairmead took some time to decide if 
the claim was covered. This was because the property was unoccupied at the time. 
Fairmead initially declined the claim because it assessed that the circumstances werent 
covered. However, it later reviewed this and accepted the claim as it identified there was 
cover under the policy.
Once Fairmead had accepted the claim, Mr G has said Fairmead and its loss adjuster could 
have progressed the claim more quickly. Fairmead has accepted there were some minor 
delays during this time, particularly around communication. But it has said there were issues 
with the way Mr Gs claim was presented. This included that there wasnt a breakdown of 
costs and items were added to the claim that werent covered by the policy. So, I think there 
were a number of issues with progressing the claim, only some of which were due to 
Fairmeads actions. 
One of Mr Gs key concerns was that, while the claim was ongoing, the council applied an 
empty property council tax surcharge to the property. This meant the costs for the property 
greatly increased. Mr G wanted Fairmead to contribute towards this charge because of the 
delays. Mr G has also provided a letter from the council that explained it was aware of 
instances where insurance companies had covered council tax in similar types of cases. It 
also explained that the surcharge was applied because the property had been empty for 18 
months. 
I looked at the policy booklet and didnt read anything that said Fairmead would cover things 
like council tax as part of dealing with a claim. Im also aware Fairmead wasnt dealing with 
the claim for 18 months and that a large part of that time was before the damage happened. 
So, I think there were a range of factors that led to the surcharge being applied when it was. 
I also have no reason to doubt that there are some instances where an insurer might have 
agreed to pay council tax charges as part of a claim. But, I need to consider this complaint 
on its individual circumstances. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded there is sufficient reason to say Fairmead should cover 
the council tax. Although there were delays, I think there were a range of reasons for this, 
not all of which were down to Fairmead. I also dont think I can fairly say the claim could or 
should have been settled before the surcharge applied. As a result, I dont require Fairmead 
to contribute towards the council tax.
Ive also thought about compensation. For this complaint, the only person I could award 
compensation to is Mr S but, sadly, he had died before the circumstances that led to the 
claim happened. So, he wasnt personally affected by the claim itself. Mr G has described 
the impact on him and other family members dealing with the claim. Im unable to award 
compensation to executors or family members who arent named on the policy. Im also 
unable to award compensation to an estate. So, based on what Ive currently seen and the 
circumstances Ive considered, Im unable to award compensation for this complaint.
Its my understanding that Mr G was still concerned by how Fairmead continued to deal with 
the complaint after the period covered by the complaints Ive considered. Mr G would need 
to raise any issues not previously raised with it as a new complaint with Fairmead. Im 
unable to consider them or comment on them.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 December 2023. 
Fairmead didnt reply. Mr G replied and said it wasnt the outcome he was hoping for, but 
that he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that Ive reviewed this complaint again and havent found any reason to 
change my view on the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman