DRN-2924117
The complaint
Mr M has complained that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Smart-Pig) lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ms complaint. Smart-Pig didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow and 
form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr M took 8 loans from Smart-Pig between December 2014 and February 2017. A summary
of his borrowing based on the information provided to us from the lender can be seen below.
Loan Date BorrowedActual Repayment 
DateAmount 
BorrowedRepayment Amount
1 14/12/2014 12/01/2015 £250.00 £318.25
2 13/01/2015 11/04/2015 £350.00 £525.00
3 21/05/2015 26/09/2015 £250.00 £375.00
4 28/09/2015 09/01/2016 £250.00 £375.00
5 22/02/2016 02/04/2016 £350.00 £444.80
6 22/07/2016 23/09/2016 £350.00 £520.40
7 17/10/2016 25/01/2017 £350.00 £525.00
8 23/02/2017 26/04/2017 £350.00 £523.60
In its final response dated 4 August 2020, Smart-Pig offered to refund the interest on loan 2.
Smart-Pig says that it made an error by approving such a large amount, so it made the offer
outlined above. Mr M was not satisfied with the lenders offer, so he asked us our service to
look into his complaint. Smart Pig has recently told us that the offer for loan 2 is still
available.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think Smart-Pig were
wrong to approve Mr Ms first four loans based on the information provided by both parties.
But the adjudicator thought that by loan 5, Mr Ms overall pattern of borrowing suggested he
had become reliant on Smart-Pigs lending and that the borrowing had become
unsustainable. So, our adjudicator thought Smart-Pig was wrong to approve loans 5-8.
It appears that Mr M agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Smart-Pig disagreed saying each loan should be considered on its own merits. It also
provided a copy of its findings following a discussion with the industry regulator around 
relending.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the facility was provided.
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Smart-Pig should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case.
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Smart-Pig is a specialist lender which only provides finance to students. As part of its
checks, it asked Mr M for proof he was enrolled in higher education and for proof of his
student finance payments.
In relation to loan two, where Smart- Pig seems to have accepted something did go wrong
when this loan was approved, and it has offered to put things right for Mr M. Ive therefore,kept this in mind when thinking about what Smart-Pig needs to do to put things right.
Loans 1, 3 and 4
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Smart-Pig to have provided Mr Ms first four
loans. Mr M appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans.
Smart-Pig also appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings  albeit it did provide
some further comments about these loans to further emphasis the reasons why it didnt think
it was wrong to approve Mr Ms last four loans.
But taking into account what Smart-Pig knew about Mr M at the time of his loan applications
and the fact they were taken out early on in the lending relationship, I dont think
Smart-Pig was wrong to have approved these loans.
Loans 5-8
But I will say that Ive not found Smart-Pigs comments around what checks it did to be
persuasive, because at no point did Smart-Pig make any inquires with Mr M to try and find
out what his regular living costs were  it just seems to have accepted that out of the student
loan payment Mr M could afford the repayments he was committed to making.
Im satisfied by this point that Smart-Pigs checks needed to go further this was Mr Ms fifth
loan in successive terms. So, on top of verifying his student loan payments, I think Smart-Pig
ought to have taken further steps to verify Mr Ms actual finance position. So, it needed to
obtain evidence of his income (which it did) but also evidence of his outgoings, to see what
he was spending his money on. Smart-Pig couldve done this a number of way, it couldve
asked to see his bank statements or it couldve asked to see evidence of his outgoings such
as copies of bills. It didnt do this and so, I dont think the checks Smart-Pig carried out for
these loans were proportionate.
While Smart-Pig had a fairly good idea of the income that Mr M was receiving which
academic year 2015/2016 it was around £1,200 per term (it seemed that Mr M was due to
receive significantly more in his final term). So, with the payments that Mr M was committed
to paying Smart-Pig, which were between £440 and £525, he was spending just under 50%
of his student loan money on repaying Smart-Pig.
I also accept that later on in the lending relationship Smart-Pig was aware that Mr M was
working, because it received copies of his payslips. But even, taking copies of his payslips
into account, it didnt know what Mr M was spending his money on because as far as I can
see Smart-Pig didnt make any enquires with Mr M to establish things such as rent payments
or other living costs.
I can see Smart-Pig carried out credit checks. Ive looked at those results, and I dont think
there was anything of real concern contained within the results. For example, it didnt show
that Mr M was relying on other forms of credit (there was a low number of recently opened
accounts) and there was no evidence or had recently defaulted on previous lending.
Mr M has supplied this service with copies of his bank statements that cover the period of
lending for these loans. Looking at them, there is clear evidence that Mr M has other
outgoings, such as what appear to be a catalogue shopping account, transport and food
costs. It seems, given the transactions, that Mr M had another account that funds were
transferred between. I dont have details of this other account. Given the repayment that Mr
M was due to make, and what I can see in the bank statement, I think its likely Smart-Pig
may well have concluded he couldnt afford the repayment he was committed to making.Given, Ive concluded Smart-Pigs checks didnt go far enough, and there are signs of other
additional expenditure, which may have made these loans unaffordable. Ive also considered
the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs lending history with Mr M, I agree with our adjudicator that
Smart-Pig should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful, at the time it provided loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5, Mr M had taken five loans from Smart-Pig within 15 months. Mr M was
showing signs that he needed to borrow every time before a new academic term
started.
Mr M was taking out a new loan shortly after repaying one. Mr M wasnt making any
real improvements to the amount he owed Smart-Pig. He went on to borrow a further
three loans after loan 5 exhibiting the same pattern of borrowing as his earlier loans.
The amount that Mr M borrowed for loan 5 increased. Over the remainder of the
borrowing relationship he continued to borrow the maximum amount offered to him.
This pattern should have caused Smart-Pig to see that Mr M was having to 
consistently take out loan advances over a sustained period and the indebtedness 
caused by this type of borrowing was harmful, in my view.
I think that Mr M lost out because Smart-Pig continued to provide borrowing from loan 5
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing
him to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
The length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market
for these high-cost loans.
As a result, I think Smart-Pig were wrong to approve loans 5-8 and it should pay the offer it
made in relation to loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Smart-Pig didnt respond to the provisional decision, so I dont know what it thinks about the 
outcome that has been reached. 
Mr M told us he didnt have any further comments for this service to consider. 
Given no new information or evidence has been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I reached in the provisional decision. I still think Smart-Pig was wrong to have 
approved loans 5  8 and it should honour its offer in relation to loan 2. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Smart-Pig should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr M loans 5-8, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Smart-Pigs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and loans 5-8
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M from the
date Mr M originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Any information about loans 5  8 is adverse. So, Smart-Pig should remove loans 5-8
entirely from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Smart-Pig should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint in part.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Smart-Pig) should put things right for Mr M as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman