DRN-3104933
The complaint
Mrs F complains about cancellation fees shes been charged by Symmetric Systems Ltd 
(SSL) after it acted as a representative for her in claims for mis-sold PPI and default 
charges.
A representative has been helping Mrs F with her complaint. For ease, Ill refer to anything 
theyve said as being said by Mrs F.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs F started to receive various letters from SSL regarding potential claims for mis-
sold payment protection insurance (PPI) and default charges. Mrs F says she ignored most 
of the letters because she didnt believe shed engaged SSLs services. Another claims 
management company had represented her in some PPI claims, and shed paid them their 
success fees. 
In August 2020, Mrs F received a notification from SSL that she owed £11 and debt 
collectors would be appointed if this wasnt paid. Mrs F says she wasnt sure what this was 
for, but she paid it to avoid any issues. 
In October 2020, Mrs F became aware that shed been charged for breach of contract by 
SSL. She emailed SSL querying why it had invoiced her when she had written to it several 
times to notify it that she didnt want to continue with her claims. She asked SSL to cancel 
any future claims on her behalf. 
SSL cancelled Mrs Fs remaining claims and invoiced her a total of around £3,350 for 
cancellation costs. Mrs F emailed SSL with her telephone number and asked it to contact 
her regarding the cancellation costs. SSL responded by email saying that Mrs F needed to 
contact it by email or writing as the contents might need to be provided in court. It said shed 
signed an agreement which explained how cancellation invoices were calculated. It was 
willing to accept a standing order payment of £90 a month to clear the debt and avoid further 
action and costs. 
Mrs F complained to SSL about the charges. SSL said the charges for cancelling outside of 
the cooling off period were clear on the signed agreement. It was satisfied that the amounts 
invoiced were fair and reasonable. But it had written off all default charges invoices which 
made a significant reduction to £1,900 (including VAT). SSL said it would offer a further 
reduction of £900 provided payment was made or a payment plan was set up within 30 days. 
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service to consider. Our investigator looked into her 
concerns and thought her complaint should be upheld. She didnt think SSL had done 
enough to progress Mrs Fs claims. She also thought some of the information it had asked 
Mrs F for was unnecessary. She recommended SSL write off the outstanding cancellation 
charges and pay Mrs F £150 for distress and inconvenience.
SSL disagreed with our investigators view. It said some of the invoices our investigator had 
referred to had already been cancelled before Mrs Fs complaint was referred to the 
ombudsman service, so shouldnt have been part of her view. It challenged what our 
investigator had said about information requests to Mrs F being unnecessary. It also made 
points relating to the impact of Financial Conduct Authoritys deadline on PPI claims and the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
SSL said that Mrs F made false allegations that documents were forged, which she later 
retracted. It said it incurred significant costs defending its position. To be told it has to pay 
£150 to Mrs F in compensation is not only unfair but against the ombudsmans policy of 
being fair and unbiased. It also raised some other points regarding Mrs Fs representative 
and our investigators experience.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 September 2021 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Fs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
SSL has written off many of the fees it initially invoiced Mrs F for. So, Ive considered 
whether or not it was fair to invoice her for the remainder. 
SSL has provided us with copies of letters of authority (LOAs) and a letter of engagement 
(LOE) which appear to have been signed by Mrs F in April 2019. Mrs F says she doesnt 
remember signing the documents and initially disputed their validity. But shes since 
acknowledged that the signature and handwriting on the documents is hers. So, on balance, 
I think Mrs F is likely to have agreed for SSL to represent her, even if she doesnt remember 
doing so. 
The LOE includes SSLs terms and conditions which show that Mrs F engaged it on what 
appears to be a no win, no fee basis - agreeing to pay SSL a commission of 20% (plus VAT) 
on successful PPI claims. The terms and conditions also say:
Our reasonable costs will vary depending on how much work has been completed up to the 
point of cancellation/breach; for example cancellation within the first 4 months of a simple 
claim could incur a fee of £100 plus VAT, whereas if the matter is complex and takes longer 
than one year the fee for each claim could be £400 plus VAT (the maximum per claim).
The terms and conditions also say Failure to complete & return documents required for your 
claim may result in a breach of this agreement and we may seek to recover our reasonable 
costs subject to a maximum of £400 plus VAT per claim if we are unable to complete our 
services as a result.
Mrs F says that because she didnt remember engaging SSLs services, she dismissed 
many of its letters as junk mail. She says she didnt hold the information SSL was asking for, 
so she wrote on some of the documents that the information wasnt available and returned 
them. 
SSL has supplied a copy of one of its letters (dated 12 October 2020) where Mrs F appears 
to have written no info available and not applicable against the information requests. She 
enclosed a letter with the returned document (received by SSL on 21 October 2020) which 
says shed sent many previous emails and letters saying that she didnt want to continue 
with the claims. She wrote that she didnt hold any previous information on any companies 
and shed previously informed SSL that all the paperwork had been destroyed. She also 
disputed the invoice SSL had sent her for £211 (for breach of contract).While SSLs terms allow it to charge fees for cancelling and breach of contract, I dont think 
its applied these charges fairly. 
I think its clear from the correspondence Mrs F sent to SSL that she asked it to cancel the 
agreement because she was frustrated by requests for information it had sent her. She 
explained that she didnt have any further information to provide. She was also 
understandably worried about the invoice it had sent her for £211 and concerned about 
further charges from SSL. 
If SSL had been willing to speak to Mrs F about the situation, it could have given her an 
indication of what the cancellation costs would be. While these are referred to in the terms 
and conditions, Mrs F signed the paperwork around 18 months before. So, I dont think it 
was reasonable for SSL to go ahead and charge her these without warning. 
If there had been a conversation with Mrs F, SSL might have reached the conclusion that 
she didnt have any additional information to provide and that continuing to pursue PPI 
claims with the lenders wasnt worthwhile. Its possible that Mrs F might have been able to 
provide some information that may have been useful. If so, I think she would have been 
willing to do so, if shed realised that she would be charged a considerable amount of money 
for not doing so. 
SSL says it believes Mrs F was attempting to avoid her contractual obligations after she 
started to receive settlements from lenders and failed to tell it. But I havent seen any 
evidence that Mrs F received settlements from lenders for the claims that were cancelled. I 
can see that lenders were corresponding with SSL about Mrs Fs claims, as they recognised 
it as her representative. So, I think its likely they would have made SSL aware of any 
settlement offers theyd made to Mrs F.
SSL says it incurred substantial costs because Mrs F made a false allegation that 
documents were forged. This isnt something I am able to consider. I can only look at how 
SSL has treated Mrs F and the impact this has had on her.
Overall, I dont think SSL has treated Mrs F fairly. I dont think its communicated with her as 
clearly as it should have done. And I think it was unreasonable for it to have charged her 
cancellation fees. So, I intend to direct SSL to remove all of the charges its made for its 
services. I also think SSL has caused Mrs F unnecessary frustration, worry and 
inconvenience. So, I intend to direct it to pay her £150 for trouble and upset.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs Fs representative said there were a couple of extra points theyd like me to consider. He 
said that after Mrs F first complained to SSL about the £3,350 invoices, it sent her a 
statement of account for £1,900 but there was no explanation or offer attached. Mrs F never 
received SSLs final response to her complaint which included the time limited offer of £900.
He also commented that, despite what SSL had claimed, Mrs F had never accused it of 
forging her signature. She had only ever said that although the signature and handwriting 
appear to look like hers, she did not recall receiving, signing and returning the paperwork 
and as such did not think shed given SSL her informed consent. This is very different from 
accusing SSL of what is effectively a criminal offence. Its difficult to understand what costs 
SSL would have incurred as a result even if she had.SSL acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt respond with any further 
information or comments.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Fs representative has suggested that SSL might not have sent its final response letter 
to her and sent a back-dated version to our service. Its not the role of our service to fine or 
punish a business. I can only consider the impact of SSLs actions on Mrs F and award fair 
redress to put things right. I havent made a finding on this issue because it doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome of the complaint or the amount of redress Im awarding.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I wasnt able to consider what SSL had said 
about Mrs F making false allegations that the documents were forged. So, Mrs Fs 
representatives comments on this matter also havent made a difference to my conclusions.
As SSL hasnt provided any further information or comments, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
SSL should remove all of the fees its charged Mrs F and pay her £150 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and direct Symmetric Systems 
Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman