DRN-3921154
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Skipton Building Society failed to transfer a third party Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) to them and they charged her a penalty when she transferred her ISA 
to a third party provider, which she was not aware of.
Mrs R is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs R herself.
What happened
Mrs R opened a fixed rate ISA in April 2022 with the view to consolidate two other ISAs into 
this new ISA, but she says Skipton failed to transfer one of the ISAs and therefore she says 
she was forced to open another ISA before this fixed rate ISA had matured. Mrs R thought 
the penalty for closing the ISA early would be a loss of interest earned up to the closure, but 
then she found out there was a clawback charge in addition to the loss of interest. She says 
she was not made aware of this when the ISA was opened, and she made a complaint to 
Skipton. Mrs R also says that she later found out Skipton had incorrectly calculated the 
clawback charge and overcharged her.
Skipton upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part. They said on 30 March 2022, she opened the ISA 
online. They said upon opening this account, she agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
product selected. They said following receipt of the account opening application, a transfer 
request was also submitted to transfer her ISA from a third party provider, however, this was 
rejected as they were unable to locate an account with them. Skipton said they sent an email 
to Mrs R on 31 March 2022 confirming this and a secure message was then received from 
her on 14 April 2022, querying as to why the transfer had not been completed. Mrs R later 
confirmed they had the wrong third party provider. They said they were unable to uphold this 
part of her complaint as it was her responsibility to provide correct instructions within their 
transfer authority form. They said as no new instructions had been provided, her request to 
transfer into them was cancelled.
Skipton said on 13 June 2022, they received a request to transfer Mrs Rs 30 month fixed 
rate ISA to a third party provider. They said she had confirmed that she was happy to accept 
the penalty to complete and allow the transfer to be processed. Mrs R had requested the 
penalty calculation to be recalculated. They said their system showed a penalty charge of 
210 days rather than 180 days loss of interest. A recalculation was received which confirmed 
that there had been an overcharge. Skipton said that she had been charged £132.28 which 
was for 210 days loss of interest, but the penalty charge should have been £104.33 loss of 
interest for 180 days. A difference of £27.95. They said they were happy to reimburse her 
£27.95 for being overcharged and an extra £30 compensation for the inconvenience. Mrs R 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair. He said Skipton explained that the early closure 
charges were made clear in the terms and conditions when Mrs R opened the ISA herself. 
Mrs R asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that Skipton defaulted on 
their own terms and conditions, thus rendering any penalties null and void. She said the 
clawback charge should be refunded in full and she believes this is a legal requirement given 
such circumstances.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mrs R has mentioned potential legal requirements. But if Mrs R wants a decision that 
Skipton have breached any laws, then shed need to go to Court. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
I asked Skipton if they could provide evidence that Mrs R had selected an incorrect third 
party provider to transfer her ISA to Skipton. The screenshot they sent me shows that this 
was an automated process and the provider is greyed out, so Im persuaded that there was 
no human error by Skipton in the wrong provider being selected. So I cant hold Skipton 
responsible if Mrs R accidently selected the wrong third party provider from the drop down 
list. I have also seen an email which Skipton say they sent Mrs R on 31 March 2022 which 
informs her that We have received a rejection message from (third party provider) as the 
account details you have provided are incorrect. 
The email goes on to say Following HMRC guidelines, we have a maximum of seven 
working days to complete the transfer. Therefore, please contact us as quickly as you can to 
ensure the transfer takes place within this time frame. So Im satisfied that the delay in 
transferring the external ISA to Skipton was not a result of any errors Skipton made and they 
made Mrs R aware of the rejection of the transfer.
Ive then considered what the terms and conditions the Skipton ISA which Mrs R held has 
around any penalties for transferring out of the ISA. At the top of this document, it lists 
reasons why the account may not be right for a customer. One of these reasons is you want 
to withdraw money before the end of the fixed term; early closure will incur an interest 
penalty so you may get back less than you paid in. So Im satisfied that the terms of the 
account makes it clear that if Mrs R withdrew money before the end of the fixed term, she 
could get back less than what she paid in.
In addition, the terms and conditions have a section titled Can I withdraw money?. This 
section covers off transfers also and it contains the wording You cant withdraw part of your 
account balance, however you can close your account at any time and withdraw the full 
balance online or transfer it to another ISA provider. If you do this youll lose 180 days 
interest. This will be taken from your savings if you havent earned enough interest on the 
account and means you might get back less than you paid in. So again, Im satisfied that 
the terms and conditions were clear that Mrs R could get back less than she deposited if she 
hadnt earned enough interest to pay the penalty upon transferring the account to a different 
provider.
But while Skipton were clear about Mrs R potentially getting less back than what she 
deposited  and Mrs R would have needed to agree to the terms and conditions when she 
opened the account, the terms and conditions are also clear that there would be a 180 day penalty on this account. But when Mrs R transferred the ISA to a third party provider, she 
incurred a 210 day penalty. 
Ive listened to a call where Mrs R had a call back from a Skipton representative. He does 
tell her that the terms and conditions say that it is a 210 day penalty. Mrs Rs husband 
corrects the call handler to say it is 180 days interest the terms and conditions show and a 
complaint is raised. 
So Im persuaded that Mrs R would have been distressed to find out she had been 
overcharged on the interest penalty, and she was inconvenienced by having to ring up 
Skipton and get this looked into. I think its fair to say that if she hadnt brought this to their 
attention, then Skipton would not have suddenly realised their mistake at a later point. 
I asked Skipton what had happened to the overcharged amount of the penalty, as this would 
have been part of her ISA. Skipton have sent me evidence to show that they sent this money 
to her new provider in July 2022 for £28.01 and they asked the new provider to count this 
payment as part of previous years subscriptions. So Im satisfied that they put Mrs R in the 
position that she would have been in had they not overcharged her the penalty. But Im not 
persuaded this makes the terms and conditions null and void. As Mrs R would have needed 
to agree to these terms which Ive highlighted on two occasions where it says she could 
receive less than what she deposited, then I dont think this is a reason to say none of the 
terms should be enforced due to Skiptons error.
Ive considered what compensation Skipton have offered Mrs R for what went wrong. In their 
final response letter they offered £27.95 for the refund of the incorrect penalty charge. As 
this was Mrs Rs money anyway, it would not be reasonable to include this in deciding what 
would be a fair and reasonable outcome here. They also offered Mrs R £30 for 
inconvenience and upset the matter had caused her.
But Im not persuaded that £30 recognises the impact that the overcharged penalty would 
have had on Mrs R. I say this as customers would expect businesses to have controls to 
ensure that the terms they agreed to are met without any issues. So when Mrs R found out 
that she had been overcharged with the interest penalty, this would have been distressing. 
And she wasnt made aware of the error at the time of the transfer by Skipton, this was a 
result of her getting in touch with Skipton to discuss the whole situation. Even when she 
received a call back from a Skipton representative, he told her the wrong penalty based on 
the screen he was looking at, and he had to check the terms and conditions himself before 
realising the incorrect penalty had been charged.
Im satisfied that an extra £70 compensation, to total £100 for distress and inconvenience for 
what happened is fair. While I cant agree with Mrs R that the remaining penalty charge 
should be refunded to her as she agreed (via the terms and conditions) that she could get 
back less than she deposited if the funds werent held for the full term  which they werent, I 
am persuaded that Skipton let her down by overcharging her the penalty, causing her 
distress and inconvenience. So it follows I intend to ask Skipton to put things right for Mrs R.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Skipton accepted the provisional decision. Mrs R responded to the provisional 
decision. She said that the decision seemed balanced and reasonable, however, she wanted 
to make me aware that she had not received the interest overpayment from Skipton into her 
ISA that she transferred to. 
Before I issued my final decision, I asked Skipton to put a trace on the interest payment. 
They emailed me evidence that this had been sent to the same details as the transferred 
ISA. I then asked Mrs R if she could send me her account movements from account opening to date and she confirmed she had confirmed she had found this interest payment, but she 
initially thought it was from her new provider and did not realise it was from Skipton and she 
expressed her dissatisfaction that Skipton didnt write to her about this. But she is now 
satisfied she has received the refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider (which remains 
outstanding), then my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Skipton Building Society to pay Mrs R a total of £100 (£30 they offered her and an extra £70) 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Skipton Building Society should pay Mrs R a total of £100 
(£30 they offered her and an extra £70) compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman