DRN-2245648
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is the amount of interest he was charged for an early settlement on his loan 
was unfair. Mr P thinks Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma  shouldnt 
be allowed to charge such high amounts. 
What happened
Mr P took out a loan with Satsuma in November 2019. It was for £1,000 which was due to be 
repaid over six monthly instalments of £316. Satsuma provided Mr P with an early settlement 
figure of £1014.98 in February 2020. Mr P raised a complaint with Satsuma about the 
amount of interest he was having to pay. 
In its final response Satsuma explained how it applied interest to its loans and how it 
calculated the amount due for the early repayment. Mr P wasnt happy with Satsumas 
explanation, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. They thought Satsumas calculations 
were correct, so they didnt ask Satsuma to do any more than it already had done. Mr P 
disagreed. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this service investigates a complaint, we look to see if a business has made an error 
and if it has done, we ask the business to put the consumer back in the position it should 
have been had that error not occurred. 
We cannot, however, comment on a commercial decision by a business in how it operates  
and I think this applies here. Looking at everything Mr P has told us, and Satsuma, the crux 
of his complaint is that hes unhappy with how much interest Satsuma charges and how it 
calculates and applies that interest to its loans. But that is a commercial decision, so I cant 
comment on how Satsuma has done this. 
But, I can make sure Satsuma has made Mr P aware of how much interest would be 
charged, along with how it applied interest to the loan and would calculate early repayments. 
I have looked at the copy of the credit agreement Mr P was provided with, and I can see the 
agreement states how much interest will be charged. The agreement also explains how 
interest is applied to the borrowing and what would happen if an early settlement is asked 
for. So, Mr P was made aware of all of this before he agreed to take out the loan. 
Overall, I cant say that Satsuma has made an error in this matter and as such I dont uphold 
this complaint. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision  hes put time and 
effort into his complaint. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman