DRN-4376587
The complaint
Mr S complains about Scottish Widows Limiteds (Scottish Widows) failure to resolve issues 
that arose upon encashment of his Investor Plan 10 policy.
What happened
In 2010, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr S explaining that due to an error on their part, his 
Investor Plan 10 policy could only continue on a non-qualifying basis rather than on the 
qualifying basis it was set up as. Scottish Widows confirmed theyd be eligible to pay any 
resulting tax charge at any time a claim was made.
Mr S encashed the policy upon maturity in 2019 and because the policy was non-qualifying, 
he was liable to pay tax on his investment gain of £59,726.29 to HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC). Despite trying to resolve the issue with both Scottish Widows and HMRC prior to 
any amount being due, in January 2021 Mr S was required to pay HMRC £16,314.94 in 
addition to forfeiting an overpayment that would have been due of £755.25.
Mr S complained to Scottish Widows. They upheld the complaint, issuing a cheque to Mr S 
for £1,150 by way of compensating him for both his time and effort spent, and for the delay 
in them replying to his complaint. 
Scottish Widows also acknowledged their previous error in 2010 and confirmed theyd rectify 
the tax issue, but first would require an official request and breakdown from HMRC. Unable 
to obtain anything further from HMRC than what he already held, and with the matter still 
unresolved, Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Lengthy communication between our Investigator and both Mr S and Scottish Widows then 
took place before Scottish Widows reimbursed Mr S £17,070.20 in June 2022. In addition, in 
August 2022, Scottish Widows sent Mr S a payment of £1,033.32 consisting of £733.32 
interest calculated at 8% simple from October 2021 until the date of reimbursement in June 
2022 and a further £300 compensation.
Mr S disputed the date Scottish Widows had used to calculate the interest he was due 
explaining hed been required to pay HMRC in January 2021, not October of that year. Mr S 
also said that due to the nature of the qualifying product he should have held, all interest 
should be paid gross and that Scottish Widows offer of a further £300 compensation was 
derisory.
Scottish Widows agreed to arrange a further interest payment of £790.98 to cover the period 
Mr S was without his funds between paying HMRC in January 2021 and the original October 
2021 date theyd used, but on both amounts they remained firm that they would be paid net 
of tax.
Mr S remained dissatisfied however our Investigator agreed Scottish Widows had calculated 
interest correctly and that it was right to be paid net. She also said she was satisfied that the 
amount of compensation both paid and offered, totalling £1,450, was fair so she wouldnt be 
asking them to pay more.
Mr S remained unhappy with both the compensation offered and interest being paid net. In 
addition, Mr S said hed never received the £1,033.32 payment Scottish Widows say was 
sent in August 2022, nor had they paid him interest on the £755.25 overpayment he 
wouldve received had Scottish Widows error have not occurred.
Following further discussions with our Investigator, Scottish Widows agreed to pay an 
additional £76.54 in respect of interest at 8% to compensate Mr S for the time he was 
without the £755.25  however the figure paid would be net of tax. Scottish Widows also 
provided evidence of them sending the payment for £1,033.32 in August 2022, however 
because Mr S provided evidence of its non-receipt, they agreed to send the payment again.
Our Investigator said she felt Scottish Widows offer to put things right was fair and she 
remained of the opinion they didnt need to pay gross interest, nor did they have to pay 
further compensation. Mr S disagreed saying he remains of the opinion interest paid to him 
should be paid gross and said the initial £1,000 compensation paid was for work done and is 
water under the bridge. He therefore still considers the further £300 offered to be paltry. As 
no resolution could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of our investigator about Mr S complaint for the 
following reasons. 
But first, both parties have provided a lot of information about this complaint. Im aware Ive 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and Ive done so using 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service 
as an informal alternative to the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, or if I dont comment on any specific point, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. This is because whilst I consider all the detail, I also need to think about things 
overall and as a whole and Ive focused on what I consider to be the outstanding issues of 
contention.
I think its also relevant and important to emphasise that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the processes a business puts in place, 
enforce changes upon them or set out to punish them. My role is instead to consider 
individual disputes and if I dont think the business acted appropriately, to look at everything 
that has gone wrong as a whole and decide a fair and reasonable outcome.
Its clear Mr S hasnt received the service he was entitled to expect throughout dealing with 
Scottish Widows to resolve this matter.
As a result of Scottish Widows error in 2010, on encashment of his policy Mr S was required 
to make two payments of £8,157.47 to HMRC in January 2021, in addition to forfeiting an 
overpayment he wouldve been due back of £755.25.
Scottish Widows reimbursed this amount to Mr S in June 2022 putting him back into the 
position he wouldve been in had his policy remained qualifying and no tax on his gain had 
been due. I wont comment on these payments further.But Mr S was without this money for some time and its only right Scottish Widows 
compensate him for being deprived of those funds and for the considerable time and effort 
hes put in to rectify the matter. Its these issues that remain outstanding. I consider the crux 
of this complaint to consist of two key points. Its these Ill focus on.
Interest for being deprived of funds
Scottish Widows have calculated interest at 8% simple by way of compensating Mr S for the 
time he was without his funds. Im satisfied the dates used (those being 14 January 2021 
and 21 January 2021 respectively for the two £8,157.47 payments Mr S was required to 
make to HMRC, and 21 November 2020 regarding the forfeited overpayment, all until 20 
June 2022  the date the funds were reimbursed) are correct. These are the periods of time 
during which Mr S was without those funds. I wont be asking Scottish Widows to amend 
those dates.
I understand Mr S feels the interest payments made to him should be gross and he has 
referenced a previous case where this was the case. But I am considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this case.
Upon encashment of his Investor Plan 10 policy, Mr S shouldve received £59,726.29 had 
the policy remained qualifying as it was when it was set up. The payment of £17,070.20 
made to Mr S in June 2022 put him back in the position he wouldve been in had he not been 
liable to pay tax, and at this point the funds were return to him and available for him to do 
with as he pleased.
But as there was a period of time where those funds werent available Mr S lost the 
opportunity to utilise them earlier. I cant be sure what Mr S wouldve done with those funds 
or what interest, if any, he mightve earned from it. So, in cases like this we ask a business 
to calculate interest at 8% - which is what Scottish Widows have done.
But this payment isnt redress, nor is it part of his original investment gain. That policy ended 
when the encashment was made in 2019. The interest is compensation for loss of 
opportunity. So, it isnt for me to tell Scottish Widows they must pay interest gross to Mr S 
and if Scottish Widows considers that theyre required by HMRC to take off income tax from 
any interest due to him they are entitled to do this. Should Mr S not be liable to pay income 
tax hed be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC.
Scottish Widows have now made a second attempt to pay Mr S a payment of £1033.32 on 
31 May 2023. This payment consists of £733.32 interest and £300 compensation.
Scottish Widows have agreed to pay further interest payments of £790.98 and £76.54. On 
payment of these further amounts, Im satisfied theyve put Mr S back in the position Id 
expect them to, and I dont require them to do anything further here.
Compensation
Next, Ive considered the delays caused by Scottish Widows when resolving this issue and 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S, including the time and effort hes had to 
spend on the matter.
Im in no doubt Mr S has had to spend a lot of time and effort to ensure this matter reaches a 
resolution. Scottish Widows were upfront about their error in 2010 so the actual issue itself 
arising in 2019 wouldnt have come as a shock. That said, its clear Scottish Widows havent 
dealt with putting things right well, which I understand will have caused some distress.But Ive also considered the total amount of compensation, £1,450, paid already by Scottish 
Widows, which isnt an insignificant amount.
I understand Mr S considers Scottish Widows original payment of £1,150 to be water under 
the bridge. But when considering a fair and reasonable payment for distress and 
inconvenience Ive looked at everything thats happened as a whole. And overall, Im 
satisfied £1,450 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I wont be asking 
Scottish Widows to pay anything more.
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied Scottish Widows have acted fairly and reasonably to put Mr S back 
into the position he wouldve been in had their error in 2010 not have occurred. Im also 
satisfied their overall offer to compensate Mr S for both being deprived of his funds and for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to be fair.
I dont require Scottish Widows to increase either the interest payments or compensation 
offered to Mr S. Nor do I require them to pay interest to Mr S gross.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, to resolve this complaint, Scottish Widows should pay 
Mr S the two outstanding interest payments of £790.98 and £76.54.
As Scottish Widows considers that theyre required by HMRC to take off income tax from 
any interest paid or due to Mr S, they should tell him how much theyve taken off for all three 
interest payments. They should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Scottish Widows Limited to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above  in line with what theyve already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman