DRN-3403504
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, provided new and further credit to her 
which wasnt affordable for her at that time.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a NewDay administer credit account in October 2018. Her application was 
approved, and NewDay issued Mrs H a credit card account with an initial credit limit of £900.
In January 2019, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mrs Hs account from £900 to £1,900. 
Two further credit limit increases followed: from £1,900 to £3,100 in June 2019, and from 
£3,100 to £4,500 in January 2020.
In September 2020, Mrs H applied for a second NewDay administered credit account. This 
application was also approved, and Mrs H was issued with a new credit card account with an 
initial credit limit of £250. In January 2021, NewDay increased the credit limit on this new 
account from £250 to £1,250.
In May 2021, Mrs H raised a complaint with NewDay because she felt she hadnt been able 
to afford any of the new or further credit that NewDay had provided her with, and that this 
should have been apparent to NewDay, had they undertaken checks into Mrs Hs financial 
position before offering the credit to her.
NewDay looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They confirmed that in all instances they had 
undertaken checks into Mrs Hs financial position before offering the credit to her, and that 
there hadnt been anything resulting from those checks which they felt should have given 
them cause to suspect Mrs H might not be able to afford the credit she was being offered.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was reasonable for 
NewDay to have approved Mrs Hs first credit account application. But they felt that it should 
have been apparent to NewDay from the information available to them that Mrs Hs financial 
position then worsened such that the second credit limit increase on that account, and all 
subsequent provisions of credit, shouldnt have been offered to Mrs H. 
NewDay didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
 
NewDay believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they took 
information from Mrs H about her employment status and annual income, and obtained 
information about Mrs H from a credit reference agency so as to get a better understanding 
of her wider financial position. And NewDay contend that there was nothing resulting from 
that information they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that Mrs 
H might not be able to afford the credit she was subsequently approved for.
At the time of the first credit account application, in October 2018, Mrs H told NewDay that 
she was employed with a gross income of £26,000 per year. NewDay also reviewed Mrs Hs 
credit file, which showed that Mrs H wasnt in arrears on any of her existing credit 
commitments at that time and had a relatively low level of existing unsecured debt of roughly 
£1,100. Taking these points into consideration, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for 
NewDay to conclude that Mrs H would most likely be able to afford a new credit account with 
the relatively low initial credit limit of £900.
It must be noted that Mrs Hs credit file did show some defaults and public records (a 
category which includes County Court Judgements). But it also showed that the last default 
happened over three and half years before the application and the last public record was 
dated almost two years before. As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for NewDay to 
consider these events to have happened sufficient long ago at the point of application for 
them to have not been of concern to NewDay, especially considering that Mrs H appeared to 
be able to comfortably afford the new line of credit she was applying for, as explained above.
In January 2019, three months after the account was opened, NewDay increased the credit 
limit on the account from £900 to £1,900. Before doing so, NewDay reviewed how Mrs H had 
managed and maintained the credit account up to that time and obtained updated 
information about Mrs H from a credit reference agency. 
At first glance, there are elements of how Mrs H had maintained the credit account in those 
first three months that appear concerning. For instance, Mrs H had exceeded the £900 credit 
limit available to her during two of those three months and had incurred over limit fees as a 
result. Additionally, Mrs H had also withdrawn cash from the credit account during all three 
months, albeit at low amounts, and had again incurred fees as a result. And it should be 
noted that the use of a credit account to provide cash can be seen as indicator of potential 
financial difficulty, especially alongside other such indicators, such as going over the credit 
limit of an account, as Mrs H had.
But while Mrs Hs management of her credit account did appear potentially concerning, the 
updated credit file information that NewDay obtained appeared to show that Mrs Hs financial 
position appeared similar to how it had been when she applied for the credit account  with 
no record of Mrs H being in arrears on any of her existing credit commitments, and with Mrs 
H having a relatively low amount of existing unsecured debt at approximately £1,700.
In consideration of all these points, I do feel that it was reasonable for NewDay to have 
offered the further credit to Mrs H that they did. And this is because I feel that the 
affordability demonstrated by Mrs Hs credit file carries greater weight than how Mrs H had 
managed her credit account up to that time  which given the apparent affordability of the 
credit account could plausibly have been a result of account mismanagement by Mrs H 
rather than being a symptom of any financial difficulty on Mrs Hs part.
In June 2019, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mrs Hs account again, from £1,900 to 
£3,100. At that time however, while Mrs Hs recent management of her NewDay account appeared unproblematic, there were notable changes to her financial position apparent from 
her credit file which I feel should have given NewDay cause for concern.
Notably, the amount of unsecured debt that Mrs H held had increased several-fold, from 
£1,700 to over £8,300. This is a significant increase, with the majority of that increase taking 
place the month before NewDay offered the second credit limit to Mrs H. And at the very 
least I feel that this significant increase in Mrs Hs use of credit should have prompted 
NewDay to take a more detailed look at Mrs Hs financial position to confirm whether there 
might be any evidence of financial difficulty at that time before offering further credit to her.
Theres no set requirement as to what form such further checks must entail. But given the 
circumstances here I feel that they should, in all likelihood, have included a review of Mrs Hs 
current account statements for the months leading up to the increase. Accordingly, Ive 
reviewed Mrs Hs current account statements for these months, to assess what NewDay 
would have seen had they reviewed them. And having done so I feel that had NewDay 
undertaken further checks into Mrs Hs position as I feel they reasonably should have done, 
it would have become apparent to them that the provision of further credit to Mrs H at that 
time most likely wouldnt have been in Mrs Hs best interests. 
One reason I say this is because it would have become evident to NewDay that Mrs H had 
taken loans from lenders often associated with short-term high-interest payday loans. The 
use of such loans can be a strong indicator of potential financial difficulty, and further review 
of Mrs Hs current account statements would have shown that her monthly communication, 
rent, and credit repayment commitments were already such that she was left with only 
approximately £175 per month to use on other essential spend, such as food and utilities.
So, while Mrs H continued to have not fallen into arrears on any of her existing credit 
commitments at the time of the second credit limit increase, it seems highly probable from 
Mrs Hs financial information at that time that an increasing reliance on credit on Mrs Hs part 
was a significant reason for this. A reliance on credit to maintain credit isnt sustainable, and 
so in consideration of Mrs Hs deteriorating financial position here, I dont feel that it was 
reasonable or in Mrs Hs interests for NewDay to have provided further credit to her at that 
time. And it follows from this that Ill be upholding this aspect of Mrs Hs complaint.
In September 2020, Mrs H applied for a second NewDay administered credit account. At that 
time, Mrs H told NewDay that she was employed with a gross income of £27,200 per year. 
And Mrs Hs credit file showed that Mrs H had unsecured debt of £11,400 and that she 
wasnt in arrears on any of her existing credit commitments or appeared to be in any 
financial difficulty at that time.
It should be reiterated that its my position that, in regards to the first account, I feel that 
NewDay should have been given cause for concern by a sharp increase in Mrs Hs total 
amount of unsecured debt such that they should have undertaken more detailed checks, and 
that I feel that those more detailed checks would have highlighted that Mrs H wasnt in a 
position whereby the provision of further credit to her was reasonable. So, Ive considered 
whether a similar rationale applies regarding the application for the second credit account.
This is because the ongoing credit file information the NewDay obtained in regard to the first 
credit account showed that, in the months leading up to the second credit account 
application, Mrs Hs total amount of unsecured debt was generally reducing, reaching a low 
of roughly £6,700 in August 2020. 
However, when Mrs H applied to NewDay for the second credit account a month later, in 
September 2020, her amount of total unsecured debt had increased significantly again, with 
NewDay using a figure of £11,400 in their assessment of Mrs Hs second application  an 
increase from the previous month of £4,700. While this higher amount of total unsecured debt isnt prohibitive taken in isolation, especially 
in consideration of Mrs Hs declared gross annual income of £27,200, I do feel that the sharp 
rise in Mrs Hs unsecured debt should have given NewDay cause to undertake more detailed 
checks into Mrs Hs financial position before providing further credit to her. And once again, I 
feel that these checks should in all reasonableness have included a review of Mrs Hs 
current account statements for the months leading up to the second account application.
Accordingly, Ive reviewed Mrs Hs current account statements for the months leading up to 
the second account application, so to understand what NewDay would have seen had they 
reviewed them.
Its evident from these statements that Mrs H was employed with a net monthly income of 
approximately £1,500. This net income amount isnt consistent with a person earning 
£27,200 per annum but is more consistent with a gross annual income of around £22,500. 
And its notable from the statements that the amount that Mrs H was paid every month 
remained consistent and didnt vary, and so Im satisfied that Mrs Hs actual income was 
most likely lower than the amount she declared to NewDay.
It's also notable that Mrs H was making several payments to credit providers and that her 
account was maintained regularly in an overdrawn position. Perhaps most tellingly, its 
evident from the statements that Mrs H was having to make transfers into her current 
account from another account in order to get by. Ive asked Mrs H to provide statements for 
this other account, which it transpires is a Childs Instant Saver account, i.e. an account held 
in trust by Mrs H for the benefit of her children.
Given then that Mrs H was effectively having to use money that was held in trust for her 
children to supplement her income, which was insufficient to meet the needs of her existing 
credit commitments and provide enough for her monthly spending, I find it very difficult to 
conclude that the provision of further credit to Mrs H was in Mrs Hs best interests at that 
time  and I feel that this should have been apparent to NewDay, had they undertaken the 
more detailed checks into Mrs Hs financial position Im satisfied they should have done.
All of which means that I feel that while it was reasonable for NewDay to have approved Mrs 
Hs first application for credit in October 2018, and to have increased the credit limit on that 
account in January 2019, I feel that all subsequent provisions of new or further credit were 
provided irresponsibly by NewDay to Mrs H. And it follows that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Mrs Hs favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Mrs Hs first credit account all interest and charges incurred on 
the account from the point of the credit limit increase to £3,100 in June 2019 onwards.
NewDay must also reimburse to this account all interest relating to any portion of the 
balance over £1,900 from that same time onwards.
And NewDay must reimburse to Mrs Hs second credit account all interest, fees, and 
charges incurred on that account from the point of opening. 
If these reimbursements result in one or both of the accounts having a credit balance in Mrs 
Hs favour, NewDay must pay this balance to Mrs H along with 8% simple interest calculated 
to the date of repayment. 
If the reimbursements instructed above result in one or both accounts having a balance remaining outstanding for Mrs H to pay, NewDay must contact Mrs H to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan with her.
Finally, NewDay must remove all adverse reporting from Mrs Hs credit file in relation to the 
first credit account from June 2019 onwards and in relation to the second credit account from 
the point the account was opened. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman