DRN-2839860
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).  
What happened
I provided a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr H took receipt of a used car in February 2019. He financed the deal through a 31-month
conditional sale agreement with PSA. At the point of supply the car was about 10 and a half
years old and had already completed 84,751 miles.
Mr H experienced problems with the car from the outset. The investigator has already set
those faults out in detail, but a brief summary is as follows:
Mr H complained to PSA, but they rejected his claim as they said he hadnt complained to
them until December 2019 and it was his responsibility to demonstrate the faults with the car
were present when it was supplied. They werent persuaded that was the case.
So, Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided a view. She
thought PSA should allow Mr H to reject the car as she thought there was evidence it had
been experiencing faults with the engine since it was supplied to him. She noted the
dealership had test driven the car and hadnt noted any faults with it, so she didnt think it
was unreasonable for Mr H to have taken the car to another garage to have the fault
diagnosed. She was persuaded that the fault with the car wasnt rectified initially and she
thought the business should allow Mr H to reject it now. She said they should refund his
deposit, end the finance agreement and refund the invoiced repair costs Mr H had provided
evidence of. She noted that Mr H had stopped paying his finance instalments and she
thought PSA should write off the arrears and refund a total of 50% of all the payments.
PSA disagreed with the investigator. They said it wasnt reasonable to hold them
accountable for the repairs completed by a third-party garage as they had been deprived of
the opportunity to mitigate any costs. They said that brake pads and tyres were consumable
products and they should not be asked to refund the cost of those. They therefore asked for
a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the view this car should now be rejected but I dont currently agree with the
redress the investigator suggested. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then PSA, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here
was a little over ten years old and had completed about 84,775 miles. So, I think a
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to
be of an acceptable quality if the engine failed after six months of driving.
the engine failure
I think there is evidence that the engine failure was developing when the car was supplied.
Mr H reported an oil leak and engine problems within the first few weeks after taking receipt
of the car.
The dealership have supported his testimony that they referred him to a franchiseddealership and Mr H has explained that dealership could not find fault with the car. I think its
likely there was a fault with the car because I can see Mr H had the rocker covers replaced
less than a month after hed taken receipt it.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault present when a
car is supplied. I think the dealership had that chance when Mr H returned the car to them in
March 2019; but they failed to identify a problem or make a repair.
They should therefore allow Mr H to reject the car.
the repair costs
The subsequent repairs Mr H authorised also failed to remedy the situation. Ive thought
about whether its fair to ask the business to refund the costs of these repairs as the
business would say the repairs may not have been necessary if Mr H had allowed them to
complete them.
But Mr H wasnt given that option. The dealership failed to identify a problem and Mr H lost
faith in them. In those circumstances, it was fair for Mr H to go elsewhere for his repairs and
fair for the business to refund any repair costs associated with the engine failure.
I think the associated costs would cover the following repairs:
rocker covers £212.50 + VAT
renew chain tensioner pulley £649.22 less £16.65 discount = £632.57 + VAT
reseal chain covers £502.09 + VAT
I also dont think a reasonable person would expect to have significant problems with the
suspension on a car, even one of this age and mileage, after only two months of ownership.
I can see Mr H had to have two wishbones replaced on the car in April 2019 at a cost of
£590.00 + VAT. 
The relevant legislation says that if a fault is reported in the first six months
it is assumed to be present when the car is supplied unless the business can show
otherwise. The business havent provided information to suggest the suspension issues
werent present at the point the car was supplied so I think its fair for them to reimburse the
costs Mr H incurred having the suspension fixed.
other repair costs
I note the supplying dealership completed an MOT on the car before they supplied it to Mr H. 
I think its therefore very likely that the condition of the brakes and the tyres were of an
acceptable standard when the car was supplied to him and I am not expecting to ask PSA to
refund the cost to replace these items.
Im also not asking them to refund the cost of the full service Mr H completed in early March
2019 shortly after hed taken charge of the car. A mini service was completed by the 
dealership before they supplied the vehicle and I think Mr H would have needed to pay for a
service himself regardless of the faults he subsequently experienced. The cost of the service
wasnt clearly associated with the subsequent quality problems.
redress
Mr H isnt sure of the exact date the engine failed on his car. I can see he told PSA it wasaround October 2019 and I can see the car wasnt re-MOTd in December, so Im persuaded
it is likely the engine failure was in October 2019. I think it would be fair for PSA to waive any
finance instalments that would have been due since October 2019 or to refund them if
theyve been paid by Mr H.
But its also fair that Mr H pays for any use hes had from the car. The mileage on the car in
August 2019 when it had been in Mr Hs possession for a little over five months, was 90,276.
So, Mr H had covered about 5,500 miles in the five or so months hed had the car. This is a
little over average mileage. So, it seems Mr H had a reasonable use of the car and Im not
therefore asking PSA to refund any instalments, or waive any instalments, before October
2019.
But, whilst Mr H may have had reasonable use of the car his enjoyment of the vehicle has
been impacted by the frequent failures hes experienced. In those circumstances Im asking
PSA to pay him £500 in respect of that lack of enjoyment.
Mr H has also been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to return the car to the garage
frequently and the dealership clearly failed to identify the problem at an early stage. Hes
also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved
earlier and hes had frequent visits to the garage. In those circumstances I think PSA should
pay him a further £300 compensation.
Mr H would like me to consider consequential losses as a result of the car failing. He says he
lost his job as a result of not having a car to travel in. Im not persuaded sufficient evidence
has been provided to demonstrate Mr H could not have mitigated these losses or that his job
was lost as a consequence of the failure. So, Im not asking PSA to take any action about
that.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell PSA
Finance UK Limited:
end the agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
refund Mr Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund (or waive if not paid) all finance instalments from and including October 2019
adding 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the
date of settlement;
pay Mr H £500 in respect of the lack of enjoyment hes experienced;
pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue;
refund the following repair costs adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement:
o£212.50 + VAT for rocker cover repair; 
o£590 + VAT for the wishbone replacements;
o£502.09 + VAT for the chain cover reseal;
o£632.57 + VAT for the chain tensioner pulley repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but PSA didnt provide any further information 
despite the provisional decision being sent to them again, in April, and the investigator 
providing three deadlines. 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Mr H to wait any longer for a decision on his complaint and 
as no further evidence has been provided by PSA Ive seen no reason to change my 
provisional decision. My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
PSA should therefore provide the redress I proposed in my provisional decision and which I 
have set out again below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to:
end the agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
refund Mr Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement;
refund (or waive if not paid) all finance instalments from and including October 2019
adding 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the
date of settlement;
pay Mr H £500 in respect of the lack of enjoyment hes experienced;
pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue;
refund the following repair costs adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement:
o£212.50 + VAT for rocker cover repair; 
o£590 + VAT for the wishbone replacements;
o£502.09 + VAT for the chain cover reseal;
o£632.57 + VAT for the chain tensioner pulley repair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman