DRN-2909871
The complaint
A complains that Zurich Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his commercial 
business insurance policy.
A is being represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ive referred to all actions and 
comments as being those of A. 
What happened
In early 2020 A submitted a claim to Zurich for goods stolen when its van was broken into. 
Zurich assessed the claim but declined it. It said there wasnt sufficient evidence to say the 
car had been securely locked, given the damage that A reported. So it said A hadnt met 
policy security terms and so the loss wasnt covered.
A complained to Zurich. To explain the apparent lack of damage A said the car had been 
repaired the same day it was broken into at a cost of about £65. But Zurich didnt agree to 
change its position. It did acknowledge thered been some delays in communicating with A, 
so it offered £75 as compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with its response, A brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Zurich had come to a reasonable decision on the claim. She 
pointed to some inconsistencies surrounding the information that had been provided by A. 
And she was persuaded by Zurichs expert that any damage wasnt consistent with the van 
being broken into. She thought Zurich had been reasonable in saying it would reconsider the 
claim if further evidence was provided. And that £75 was fair to compensate for the poor 
communication during the claim. 
A didnt accept that. A said Zurich didnt assess the van for any damage until around five 
months after the incident, so its expert report shouldnt be relied on. It also said it had given 
explanations about the other information and the inconsistencies, and some of the issues 
had arisen due to a language barrier. 
As A didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has declined the claim as it says As loss is excluded under the following term: 
Special exclusions
Unattended road vehicles
loss from an unattended road vehicle unless the vehicle:
a) during working hours has any doors and windows and other means of access securely fastened and 
locked
b) at any times out of working hours is housed in a securely locked garage.
As far as Im aware its accepted that the loss likely happened during working hours, so I 
consider Zurich is relying on the first part of the exclusion to decline the claim. It doesnt 
think the damage to the van supports that it was securely fastened and locked. As Zurich 
wants to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, it is for it to show the exclusion applies. 
Zurich says it asked A about the damage to the van and it said the van was repaired on the 
day of the loss. As given a receipt from a garage which confirms it paid £65 for the repairs. 
The description given by the garage on the receipt was door cable repair. Theres no further 
detail on the damage or how it happened.
Zurichs expert looked at the car  it couldnt review whether a cable had been repaired 
without dismantling the door panel. But its report says there is no damage to the locks 
suggesting they were forced open. It says:
The left slide door is also fitted with a magnetic lock which engages the locking mechanism and this 
was found to be in working order at time of inspection and there is no evidence this has been 
tampered with.
I accept As point that the van was inspected by Zurich months after the incident, but I 
havent seen anything which shows the lock was damaged at the time of the theft, or that A 
has had repairs carried out to the lock in the intervening months. It seems Zurich did try and 
make enquiries with the garage A used but didnt receive any further information. A says the 
garage couldnt be expected to remember the van five months later when it was approached 
by Zurich. I accept this point, but the only evidence I have from the time doesnt support that 
the lock was tampered with or repaired. Zurichs expert also raised the possibility that the 
door cable may have already been broken before the theft, which could mean the car wasnt 
secure. But it accepts there is no way to prove this. 
The only evidence I have on the door cable is from Zurichs approved repairer, who reviewed 
the reports and photographs of the car. It says the door cable is on the inside of the door, 
and the door would need to be open to access this. It couldnt see how this cable being 
damaged was connected to the van being broken into. A hasnt given any evidence which 
shows the cable being damaged supports that the van was locked at the time. So in the 
absence of anything else Im not persuaded this shows the car was securely locked. 
A has provided some photos of the van which show some light scuff marks on the end of the 
sliding door. Zurichs report also picks up these same marks. Zurichs view is that the marks 
are not as severe as it would have expected if forced entry was gained whilst the van was 
locked. I dont think this is an unreasonable position to reach, there are no dents to the 
sliding doors consistent with an item forcing open the doors. And if it was securely locked, I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect more damage would have been caused by a forced 
entry. 
A has said the legal position says force and violence need only be very minimal. But Zurich 
arent declining the claim based on a lack of force and violence. It is declining the claim 
based on the lack of evidence to suggest the van was locked. And I think on balance, Im 
satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
I have considered there could have been other methods of gaining access to the van, A has 
later mentioned the lock could have been picked. There could also have been a relay used 
to gain access without the key. But when A first reported the claim it said the lock had been 
broken and a metal thing had been used to gain entry. So having considered everything, 
Im not persuaded those were the most likely methods of entry. There have been other inconsistencies noted in this claim, but as I dont think theyre central 
to the exclusion and whether it applies, Im not going to comment on them. I can see Zurichs 
communication could have been more prompt and clear; I think £75 for this is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman