DRN-1302219
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about how State Bank of India (UK) Limited dealt with him when he attended 
its branch.
What happened
Mr P attended a State Bank of India(SBoI) branch as he had problems logging into his 
account following an unauthorised attempt by someone trying to access his account. He 
says the SBoI staff member he spoke to wrote security information on the palm of his hand 
and that his account was then accessed, while he was on the phone to a different 
department, without his permission. Mr P says his personal data rules have been breached 
and that a staff member also watched him enter a PIN. He says this has caused him concern 
about his account security and distress. Mr P would like £500 compensation and also says 
SBoI staff refused to record his complaint whilst he was in the branch.
SBoI says its staff tried to help Mr P but accepts its staff member wrote information on the 
palm of his hand. It's apologised for that and offered Mr P £75 as a gesture of goodwill as 
well as giving feedback to that staff member. SBoI doesn't accept accessing Mr P's account 
without permission and says it tried to help him by contacting its department about the 
account block. It says its staff member accessed Mr P's account in order to check if there 
were any reasons for the blocks such as unauthorised transactions. SBoI says it did record 
details of Mr P's complaint and says it told him that if he wanted its help he needed to trust 
its staff.
Mr P unhappy with that response brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought 
SBoI had dealt fairly with it. The investigator didn't think it clear if the SBoI staff member had 
looked at the PIN but thought it fairly offered to change the PIN if Mr P had any concerns. 
The investigator didn't think it our role to decide if there was a data protection breach and or 
punish a business and didn't think Mr P had suffered any financial loss. The investigator 
thought the offer of £75 was fair and reasonable.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and says we should watch video footage from the branch and 
questions why his account details were accessed when he told staff his balance wasn't 
affected. He says £75 isn't enough for a breach of the law and he is concerned about 
SBoI acting fraudulently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what's happened.
I'm satisfied that Mr P has told us and SBoI that he was concerned about unauthorised 
access attempts on his account and that was the reason he went to the SBoI branch so that the account block could be removed. I accept that the SBoI staff member ought not have 
written account details on the palm of his hand. But I think SBoI has apologised for that and 
told Mr P that it's also given its staff member feedback and I think its made a fair and 
reasonable gesture of goodwill offer of £75. I don't think the staff members actions would 
have had a significant affect on Mr P or caused him any financial loss for example or 
jeopardised his account security.
I have listened to the call that took place within the branch and I'm satisfied Mr P told 
SBoI during that call that someone had tried to access his account. So I don't think the 
SBoI staff member that then accessed Mr P's account acted inappropriately in those 
circumstances. I accept Mr P says his account balance was correct but I think the staff 
member acted reasonably by checking the account to see if any further information was 
present that could have explained what was going on. I make clear to Mr P that I have no 
reason to conclude that the staff member was acting fraudulently as he suggests. And if Mr 
P believes that SBoI staff members are acting in such a way then no doubt he will consider 
where he banks.
The investigator has explained what our role is in dealing with these sorts of personal data 
breaches and its not our role to decide if the law is broken or to punish a business.
Overall I'm satisfied that Mr P hasn't suffered any financial loss and that SBoI staff were 
trying to help him. For those reasons I can't see any justification for ordering SBoI to pay Mr 
P the £500 compensation he says is appropriate. And I think that SBoI fairly offered to 
change Mr P's PIN when he raised his concerns about the staff member seeing it. I also 
think SBoI did record details of Mr P's complaint in the branch having looked at its records.
I appreciate that Mr P may not wish to accept SBoI's offer of £75 so I will leave it to him to 
decide. I also don't think I need to view any video footage of the branch as I don't doubt what 
Mr P says- that his account was accessed or that the staff member wrote information on the 
palm of his hand. I have made clear that I think that account access was reasonable and 
was on balance made to try and help Mr P rather than defraud him. 
My final decision
My Final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman