DRN-4521879
The complaint
Mr L complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
Pensionhelp Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Pensionhelp.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr L was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Pensionhelp which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr L was 49 years old and single. He had accrued many years worth of service with 
BSPS and was a deferred member.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ls BSPS was approximately 
£445,448. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
By the time of this advice, Mr L earned around £37,000. He lived in a home he 
owned outright. He had significant savings.
Mr L was contributing to a new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. This 
pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
Pensionhelp engaged with Mr L throughout the latter months of 2017 and carried out a fact-
find in November 2017. It later set out its advice in a suitability report. In this Pensionhelp 
advised Mr L to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension 
arrangement. Pensionhelp said this would allow Mr L to achieve his objectives. Mr L 
accepted this advice and so transferred out in 2018. In 2021 Mr L complained to 
Pensionhelp about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a 
personal pension but Pensionhelp didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr L then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, 
Pensionhelp said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives 
Mr L had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be informally resolved, it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Pensionhelp didnt agree it had done anything wrong. However, in the 
interest of bringing complaints like this to a close, Pensionhelp has recently said it would be 
willing to accept the Investigators view and run a calculation to see if the pension transfer 
had incurred any loss for Mr L. 
Pensionhelp has used a BSPS-specific calculator established by the regulator for this 
purpose. Ive noted it took Mr Ls transferred pensions current value and inputted this into 
the calculator together with all his personal details. And as Mr Ls transferred pension 
balance has grown, the calculation shows there has been no financial loss incurred as a 
result of Mr L transferring away, back in 2018.
For the avoidance of any doubt here, Ive still looked at Mr Ls case and his points of 
complaint in great detail. Having done this, I agree with the points made by our Investigator 
who comprehensively set out why he thought the complaint ought to be upheld. Im also 
sorry that its taken so long for Mr Ls complaint to reach this stage  I understand the 
distress and inconvenience caused by him having to bring the complaint at all.
However, because Pensionhelp has recently informed us that it is willing to accept the 
investigators view that the advice wasnt right for Mr L, and that a calculation has been 
carried out as required by the regulator, Im not going to go into the level of detail I normally 
would about why the complaint should be upheld. I have checked that the inputs that were 
put into the BSPS-calculator are correct.
So, in summary, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. And I dont think there were 
any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So I think 
Pensionhelp ought to have advised him against transferring away from the BSPS. 
As I dont think I need to consider this in any further detail, Ill focus in this decision on the 
redress methodology.Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr L back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Pensionhelp has carried out a calculation using a BSPS-
specific calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect it to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Pensionhelp which are personal to Mr L. 
These include Mr Ls personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he 
left the scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if 
he had not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ls case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr L 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
Our investigator recommended that Pensionhelp should pay Mr L for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr L in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a relatively large amount. In his situation I think 
the thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr L. So I agree the 
recommended payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience. Pensionhelp should pay Mr 
L this.
I think the calculation carried out by Pensionhelp is appropriate in the circumstances and no 
redress for financial losses is due to Mr L. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr L a sum of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman