DRN-2473243
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr W started with HSBC UK Bank Plc under 
its first direct brand. He was given an agreement in principle in error, because the property 
he wanted to buy was a freehold maisonette which isnt acceptable security for first direct. 
By the time first direct corrected this, Mr W had paid £780 for a survey. First direct has paid 
Mr W £100 for poor service but he believes it should reimburse him the cost of the survey.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same overall reasons. 
Ive read Mr Ws interpretation of the agreement in principle; hes said first direct told me 
there would be no problem providing the mortgage given the large deposit I was putting 
down compared to the property value.
Im afraid Mr W has substantially misdirected himself. An agreement in principle isnt in any 
way a statement that there will be no problem providing a mortgage. It is an indication of 
what a lender would be willing to lend once all of its underwriting checks have been 
completed to its satisfaction and the application has been formally assessed. 
Mr W was given the agreement in principle on 11 July 2019, and an appointment was made 
for him to undergo an interview with an advisor in 22 July 2019. So its reasonable to infer 
from this that Mr W was on notice that matters werent in any way formalised at this stage. In 
that context, Im satisfied Mr W acted precipitately by commissioning his survey before hed 
had his mortgage interview.
In fact what happened on 22 July 2019 was that the adviser told Mr W what first direct 
accepts he should have been told on 11 July 2019; that is, that it would not be able to lend 
on the property he wanted to buy. 
Ive thought about Mr W would have done if first direct had told him on 11 July 2019 that it 
couldnt lend on the property he had chosen. From what Mr W has told us, it seems he really 
wanted this property and was very upset when the seller pulled out. So I find that, in all 
likelihood, if first direct had informed him correctly at the outset, Mr W would probably still 
have commissioned his survey, at the same time as looking for another lender that would be 
willing to lend on a freehold maisonette.
Im satisfied first direct has paid reasonable compensation for its service shortcomings; but 
for the reasons given, I dont find that its error was the primary cause of Mr W incurring the 
cost of a survey.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman