DRN-3610166
The complaint
Mr R complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly dealt with his claim on his home 
emergency insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr R noticed a bad smell coming from his downstairs toilet and he 
suspected issues with his drains. He made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy 
that he held with Aviva.
Avivas engineer attended to look at the problem. A blockage was found in the drains at the 
front of the property. The blockage was flushed out with a water jet. Mr R pointed out a small 
hole in his back garden, but the engineer said it was nothing to do with the drains. 
The smell continued and Mr R contacted Aviva to send another engineer. This engineer also 
found a blockage in the front drains. This was cleared and was left free flowing. This 
engineer said the issue may be the main drain outside Mr Rs property and advised he 
should get in touch with his water provider.
In November 2021 Mr R organised for his water provider to attend. They found there was no 
issue with the main drain. They also looked at the drainage pipes back to the house and 
found some gravel in them and this was flushed away. A small hole was noted at the side of 
the property that looked like a rodent tunnel. They found loose joints in the pipework to the 
downstairs toilet and said this could be the cause of the bad smell. 
Mr R complained to Aviva that the bad smell continued. He said Aviva had not carried out its 
obligations to source the cause of the smell and make any repairs needed. In January 2022 
Aviva organised for its engineers to return. Aviva apologised for the time it had taken to 
arrange this. Mr R agreed the solution offered and accepted £100 compensation. 
Two engineers attended Mr Rs property. No drain blockages were found during these visits.
The first engineer confirmed the drainage at the back of the house was an unused drain and 
it does not take away any drainage from the property. 
The second engineer looked at the plumbing in the downstairs toilet and found the pan 
connector to the toilet was incorrectly installed. The engineer concluded if this connection 
had been installed correctly there would be no smells in this room. 
Aviva concluded that the issues within Mr Rs property were not covered under the terms of 
the policy. It offered him a further £80 for the inconvenience and delays caused.
As Mr R was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said there was 
no home emergency event identified that was covered by Mr Rs policy and therefore was 
unable to ask Aviva to take any further action.
As Mr R is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R said his coverage is not a home emergency insurance policy but is Plumbing and 
Drainage Plus. And he said it covers the drainage issues he has had.
I looked at the welcome pack sent to Mr R at the start of his policy and found the insurance 
product information document clearly shows it is a home emergency policy for plumbing and 
drainage.  
A home emergency policy is designed to provide an emergency response to sudden and 
unforeseen emergency situations that happen. 
Within the terms and conditions of the policy it says;
What is Covered?
Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered for problems relating to your plumbing and 
drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing leaking 
pipes; clearing blocked drains; restoring toilet facilities, repairs to leaking overflows and 
investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can be accessed. 
The engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear or repair a damaged section of drain 
which is leaking or causing a permanent blockage.
I am satisfied that Aviva fairly dealt with Mr Rs claim when it attended his property in 
September 2021 and October 2021 and cleared the blockages found in the drains after he 
reported a bad smell. 
The issue that remained at Mr Rs property was the smell.
I have reviewed the report produced by both Mr Rs water supplier and the information from 
Avivas engineers. Both found it most likely the smell was coming from the incorrectly 
installed toilet pan connector.  
Within the terms and conditions of the policy it says;
General exclusions 
e) systems/equipment/appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained 
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions; or that are 
subject to a manufacturers recall;.
Repairs to Mr Rs toilet pan is excluded from cover due to it not being installed correctly. 
When Avivas engineer attended to re-inspect the cause of the smell in January 2022 it 
found the drain at the back did not take away drainage from Mr Rs property. As this was 
found not to be part of the drainage system, it is not covered by the policy. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed, but I do not uphold his complaint. When the cause of 
the smell was investigated in January 2022, there was no home emergency event identified that is covered by his policy. Therefore I do not require Aviva to take any further action in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman