DRN-2900986
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black 
Horse Limited (Black Horse) was of unsatisfactory quality, she would like to reject it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
The main issues Mrs S raised with the car were the tyre pressure light coming on, the 
vehicle pulling to the left and a problem with the acceleration. Mrs S had the car 
tracking checked in November 2020 which showed the balance wasnt correct
In February 2021 Black Horse organised an independent inspection which found no 
warning lights, in the test drive the car didnt pull or veer and the car accelerated 
satisfactorily. The report stated the tracking issue would have been present at the 
point of sale. But as the issue wasnt present on the test drive, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that this must have been addressed by repairs in November 2020. 
Whats important is that no problem was found in the independent inspection.
Black Horse has also explained that tracking is part of the ongoing maintenance so 
its not unexpected for this to be out from time to time. As Mrs Ss agreement was for 
a four-year-old car she might reasonably expect to have maintenance issues to deal 
with sooner than perhaps if her agreement had been for a new car.
The independent report also seems to me to have covered other issues  Mrs S 
subsequently raised but with regard to these it  didnt find any condensation, odour of 
stagnating water or knocking noise from the steering or suspension.
Black Horse in its final response letter partially upheld Mrs Ss complaint in respect of 
the tracking issue. It offered Mrs S a total of £260 compensation to cover trouble and 
upset, loss of enjoyment and reimbursing of the wheel alignment costs Mrs S 
incurred. I think this was a reasonable
I appreciate Mrs S wants to reject her car. But when issues arise, we usually say its 
fair to allow the  opportunity to repair. As the independent report didnt find any 
issues with the car, I must conclude that any repairs were satisfactory and there are 
no grounds for me to now say its fair for Mrs S to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Black Horse 
Limited should :-
Pay Mrs S £100 for the trouble and upset caused 
Pay Mrs S £100 for loss of enjoyment of the car
Pay Mrs S £60 for the wheel alignment costs she incurred with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman