DRN-3610078
The complaint
Ms A and Mr D complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wouldnt agree to extend the 
term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Ms A and Mr D took out their interest only mortgage in 2009. They took further borrowing in 
2011. The mortgage term ended in 2015, and Ms A and Mr D asked for an extension. RBS 
agreed an extension to September 2016.
In 2016, Ms A and Mr D complained about the term of their mortgage, which they said they 
had understood to be 20 years but was in fact only six. This complaint was not upheld.
In 2017, the term was extended again, to February 2020. In 2019 a further extension to 
February 2021 was agreed.
Following guidance from the regulator because of the coronavirus pandemic, RBS agreed to 
defer collection of the outstanding balance until after 31 October 2021. But it wouldnt agree 
a further term extension. It said it had given Ms A and Mr D several term extensions to allow 
them to find a way to repay the mortgage, but it wasnt willing to extend the term any further. 
Ms A and Mr D complained. They said RBS hadnt treated them fairly. It wasnt willing to 
discuss their mortgage with them until the end of the term drew near. And then it wasnt 
willing to agree a further term extension. They say they had a plan to repay  they had 
bought another property and were in the process of converting it from commercial premises 
to a house before selling it at a profit  but that there had been delays. It wasnt that RBS 
wasnt willing to allow them time to complete the project. They say they had managed to 
move to another lender  but had had to pay fees to do so. And they had to use some of 
Mr Ds pension to reduce the balance. Had RBS been willing to tell them sooner that it 
wouldnt agree to another term extension, they would have had time to make other 
arrangements.
Our investigator didnt agree that RBS had acted unfairly, so Ms A and Mr D asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Ms A and Mr Ds mortgage originally ended in 2015. They took it out in 2009, 
with further borrowing in 2011. Ms A and Mr D say they thought the term was for longer than 
that  but it wasnt. 
When they took the mortgage out, Ms A and Mr D agreed to repay it at the end of the term. 
Even if there was a misunderstanding about the length of the term when they took it out  
though the mortgage offer is clear about the term  Ms A and Mr D knew what the correct 
position was by 2015.
RBS has agreed several term extensions  to 2016, to 2019, 2020 and 2021. On each 
occasion, it agreed a relatively short extension to allow Ms A and Mr D to find a way to repay 
the capital.
In 2019, when the term was extended to 2021, RBS told Ms A and Mr D that this would be 
the final extension, and they would need to repay the capital in 2021. Because of the 
coronavirus pandemic, a further grace period to October 2021 was allowed in line with the 
regulators guidance.
Im satisfied that RBS has acted fairly. Overall, its allowed Ms A and Mr D six years from the 
original end of the term to repay their mortgage. It made clear in 2019, and again in a call in 
December 2020, that the term would not be extended again. 
Ms A says that she had further calls with RBS in February 2021 and April 2021 in which she 
asked for further extensions and RBS wouldnt give her an answer  which meant things 
were uncertain and they werent given enough time to plan.
But I think shes mistaken about this. The only call thats come to light from February 2021 
was about a direct debit on her current account, not the mortgage. Theres no record of a 
separate call about the mortgage. And the call in April 2021 was about the mortgage, and in 
that call Ms A explained her situation. But RBS didnt give any indication that it would be able 
to extend the term. The advisor she spoke to said RBS couldnt consider any further 
extensions as it had already granted previous extensions  but if Ms A and Mr D were still 
unable to pay nearer the end of the grace period it would discuss their options with them 
then.
Overall, therefore, I dont think RBS misled Ms A and Mr D. It made clear that there would be 
no further term extensions in 2019 and again in 2020. And in April 2021, it said the same 
thing  and said that if Ms A and Mr D werent able to repay by the end of the term it would 
review things at that point.
Ms A and Mr D did have options to repay their mortgage. They had their refurbishment 
project, which was their plan to repay. And while that couldnt be completed in time, they 
also had other options  they own rental properties and have said that, had they understood 
there would be no further extensions, they would have given notice to tenants and sold one 
of the properties. And in the end they repaid this mortgage by re-mortgaging to another 
lender, using part of Mr Ds pension to reduce the balance. 
I appreciate that this was not something they wanted to do  because it reduces Mr Ds 
pension and also involved a substantial tax bill on the drawdown. 
But ultimately Ms A and Mr D needed to repay this mortgage. Theyd agreed they would. 
They had several different ways open to them to do so.
RBS had allowed them six years after the term originally ended to repay, and they hadnt 
taken one of their other options, such as selling other property. It was clear with them that 
there would be no further term extensions after 2021, and they would need to repay the 
mortgage then. RBS is not to blame if the way Ms A and Mr D chose to repay was more 
expensive for them than one of the other options they hadnt taken  despite knowing when 
the term ended.
Im satisfied RBS has shown reasonable forbearance in giving Ms A and Mr D several term 
extensions. Even after October 2021, it allowed a further six months without taking action before they redeemed the mortgage in March 2022. I dont think there was anything further it 
could reasonably have been expected to do, and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman