DRN-4493574
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has turned down a storm 
damage claim they made on a home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
In February 2023, following storm winds, Mr and Mrs D noticed that their roof had been 
damaged. Ridge tiles had been blown off; along with their dry verge. And their drainpipe had 
been dislodged. They said too that their guttering had been damaged. So they made a claim 
on their policy.
Accredited appointed a surveyor to attend Mr and Mrs Ds property. The surveyor concluded 
that the damage had been down to a gradually operating cause, which was specifically 
excluded by the policy terms. So Accredited turned down Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Accrediteds decision and so they asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She felt it had been 
fair and reasonable for Accredited to rely on the surveyors opinion to turn down Mr and Mrs 
Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They provided new evidence from two building companies which 
stated that the roof damage had been caused by high winds.
But the investigator still felt that the surveyors opinion was persuasive evidence that the 
cause of the roof damage had been gradually operating. And so she still thought it had been 
fair for Accredited to turn down the claim.
Remaining unhappy with the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs D asked for an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint. Ive summarised their responses to the investigator. 
They felt the investigator had placed weight on an incomplete surveyors report, which hadnt 
taken into account all of the damage which had occurred during the storm. They questioned 
why the expert opinions of the builders who had inspected all of the damage had been 
dismissed. And they maintained that the failure of the ridge tiles was unrelated to the dry 
verge and guttering at the back of their property. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Accredited has had an opportunity to review 
and comment on the builders reports and Mr and Mrs Ds submissions ahead of this 
decision being made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I dont think it was unfair 
for Accredited to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In this decision though, I 
havent commented on each point theyve made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, 
Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think Accredited 
treated Mr and Mrs D fairly.
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then the claim wont succeed. 
First, Ive considered whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of the 
claim. Accrediteds definition of a storm includes wind speeds of at least 55 mph. Ive 
considered local weather reports from around the date of the claim. I can see that wind 
speeds significantly exceeded 55mph around the time the damage occurred. On this basis, I 
think the answer to the first question is yes.
Im also satisfied that damage to a roof is consistent with storm. And therefore, I also think 
the answer to the second question is yes.
So I now need to consider whether I think it was fair and reasonable for Accredited to 
conclude that the storm conditions merely highlighted pre-existing damage. The terms of Mr 
and Mrs Ds contract with Accredited say that Accredited doesnt cover the following:
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration whether you were aware of it or not.
Its important I make it clear that Im not a buildings expert. Therefore, in deciding whether I 
think Accredited turned down this claim fairly, Ive necessarily had to weigh-up the available 
expert evidence to decide which I find most persuasive.
Accredited appointed a surveyor to visit Mr and Mrs Ds property. The surveyor took photos 
of the roof and focused on the ridge tiles. Their report says:
The customer has advised that during the recent poor weather conditions 2no ridge tiles and 
2no verge sections have fallen from the roof. They have retained the verge but the ridge tiles 
have smashedMain Roof On inspection of the roof no evidence of any storm related damage was noted. 
The two ridge tiles that have fallen have failed due to the long term degradation of the 
bonding and pointing material. This has progressively become perished leaving the ridge 
tiles loose. The poor weather has highlighted the poor pre existing condition.
The surveyor concluded that the proximate (main) cause of the damage was natural 
breakdown.
Accrediteds in-house surveying team also reviewed the surveyors report, along with the 
photos they took during their visit and agreed with the conclusions reached by the surveyor.
On the other hand, Mr and Mrs D have provided two builders reports. The first was dated 31 
October 2023 and states:
Looks like storm damage ridge normally doesnt come off unless its taken off manually or 
high winds the dry verge looks like the wind has caught it [sic]
The second report is dated 7 November 2023 and says:
Roof report due to excessive winds
On my visit to the above address, I reported that 2 no Ridge tiles have been dislodged by the 
winds along with dry verge system, also damage to gutter.
Its clear that there is conflicting evidence about the main cause of the roof damage. Ive 
carefully considered the evidence provided by both Accrediteds surveyor and Mr and Mrs 
Ds builders. In my view, this is a finely balanced case. However, having taken into account 
the photographs taken by the surveyor during their visit, it does appear that the cement and 
pointing securing the ridge tiles had degraded. I can also see that there was significant moss 
growth along the roof ridge. And the damage does appear to be consistent with wear and 
tear. Im also mindful that the surveyor has provided some detail around the cause of the 
damage which I think is supported by the photos. 
The surveyor says that they were only told about damage to the front of the property, which 
was the reason why they didnt inspect the gutter or dry verge. I think this is a plausible and 
persuasive explanation as to why the gutter and dry verge werent assessed as part of the 
inspection. Nonetheless, theyve said that as the verge came down at the same time as the 
roof tiles, it would also have been excluded from cover. And one of the builders reports 
indicates that the downpipe was a two-minute job, as the pipe just needed to be pushed 
into place.
So while Ive carefully taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds builders reports, on balance, I find 
the surveyors evidence more persuasive and compelling. As such, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Accredited to rely on the surveyors evidence to conclude that the main 
cause of the roof damage was wear and tear over time. And that therefore, Mr and Mrs Ds 
roof damage claim was specifically excluded from cover. 
Accredited has told us that if Mr and Mrs D are able to provide further evidence in support of 
their claim, it will reassess it. Its open to Mr and Mrs D to obtain new specialist evidence 
should they wish to do so and to send it to Accredited for its consideration. If theyre 
unhappy with the outcome of any further review of their claim, they may be able to make a 
new complaint about that issue alone.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ds position, I dont find Accredited acted 
unfairly when it turned down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman