DRN-4374792
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) failed to fully repair his 
car following an accident claim, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident when driving. He made a claim to Admiral, which it 
accepted. Arrangements were made for the repairs. Mr L says he was visited by the 
repairers mobile team at home. But he was advised the car would need to be repaired at the 
garage as the damage was too severe. 
Around a week later the repairer called him but was unaware of its mobile teams 
assessment. Mr L was told the damage report would be obtained but that a shortage of 
courtesy cars might delay the repair. He says he was called just under three weeks later to 
discuss repair arrangements. The repairer wasnt aware he needed a courtesy car. But as 
none were available an appointment couldnt be made. 
Mr L called Admirals repairer a week later. He was told it could carry out the repairs 
immediately. But it didnt have a courtesy car available, which Mr L needed. Two weeks after 
this the repairer called Mr L to tell him the parts for his car were due to arrive in a few days, 
and his car could be booked in. Mr L says he wasnt told the repairer was waiting on parts 
prior to this, only that the delay was due to the lack of a courtesy car. 
Mr L says he was told a few days after his car was taken for repairs, that the garage had 
found damage unrelated to his claim. Meaning when he collected the car he would need to 
arrange a repair asap. A week later the repairer queried why he hadnt collected his vehicle 
and requested the return of its courtesy car. Mr L says there was no concern shown as to his 
circumstances.
The car was returned on a truck a week later and the courtesy car was collected. Mr L says 
he wasnt informed that his car was unroadworthy. Because he wasnt happy with how 
Admiral had handled his claim he complained. 
In its final complaint response Admiral says Mr Ls car had a damaged spring that was on 
the opposite side of the car to the collision. Its repairer didnt think this was accident-related 
damage. When Mr L disputed this it arranged for an independent assessor to inspect the 
damage. The assessor didnt think the spring damage was claim related either. Admiral says 
its policy doesnt cover this damage. 
Admiral offered Mr L £50 compensation for one of its agents not calling him back as agreed, 
and for its repairer not confirming whether his car was driveable. 
Mr L didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. He says 
Admiral hadnt responded to a second complaint hed made. Our investigator asked Admiral 
about this. It responded to say that all of the issues Mr L had raised had been merged into its 
final complaint response. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the expert 
report confirmed the spring damage was due to wear and tear. He thought the £50 
compensation it offered was fair to acknowledge the lack of communication. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that Mr Ls car was taken to Admirals repairer at the beginning of May 2023. A few 
days later the repairer contacted him to advise there was damage that wouldnt be included 
in the repairs. Admiral says its repairer explained the damage was to the drivers side front 
spring. Mr L doesnt dispute that he was told about this. But he did dispute this being 
excluded from the repairs. 
Ive read the report from the repairer. This says:
looking at the images this is all nsf damage, the spring on the osf will be a wear and tear 
item as there is no impact damage that is consistent to that side of the car.
The repairers engineer felt that as the spring was on the opposite side of the car to the 
collision, the damage wasnt consistent with the claim. I think it was reasonable that Admiral 
arranged for an independent assessor to inspect the damage as Mr L didnt agree with this 
decision. In the report the assessor says:
The offside front spring was clearly broken/snapped to such an extent that the spring was 
sitting past the area it is supposed to be correctly located with the upper section of the road 
spring missing.
NB: There is a considerable amount of established corrosion present around the broken part 
of the remaining section of the spring and on the upper seating area which in my opinion 
clearly pre dates the incident date for the claim on notice.
Having reviewed the repair estimate, and provided information, it is my considered opinion 
that the broken spring on the opposite side of the damaged area cannot be justified as being 
part of the accident damage under review for the claim on notice.
The issue is in my opinion normal wear and tear and should be the responsibility of the 
insured.
Photos of the area around the broken spring were included with the assessors report. The 
photos support his view that there was considerable corrosion present. Admiral refers to its 
policy terms that say it may reduce the settlement or ask Mr L to contribute to towards the 
repair costs if the parts are already worn or damaged. I think the assessors expert view is 
persuasive that the damaged spring isnt related to Mr Ls accident. Based on this evidence I 
dont think Admiral treated him unfairly when it declined to cover the cost of repairing it. 
Ive thought about the standard of customer service Mr L received. I acknowledge what he 
says about Admiral not responding to each of the points he made in his complaint. And that 
he wasnt told it had merged his complaints into one response. I cant see that it responded to all of his comments individually. But having carefully considered his complaint points I 
dont think Admiral needs to do more to compensate Mr L. 
Admirals repairer didnt have a courtesy car available when Mr Ls claim was first referred to 
it. He had to wait a few weeks before one became available, and his car could be booked in 
for repairs. I note what Mr L says about the repairer being unaware its mobile repair team 
had assessed the damage. But I dont think this delayed the repairs, as Mr L needed a 
courtesy car, and one wasnt available until his car was booked in for repairs in May 2023. 
He wasnt told about the parts that had been ordered. But again, the crux of the initial delay 
in starting the repairs was down to the availability of a courtesy car. 
Mr L had the use of his car prior to repairs taking place. I note what he says about only using 
his car very sparingly. However, he did confirm to Admiral that his car was driveable during 
this period, and he says it was driven to the repairing garage. I cant see that Admiral was 
aware of an issue with the damaged spring until the car was inspected. 
Having considered all of these points, albeit there were some minor communication failings, I 
think Admirals offer of £50 compensation is fair in these circumstances. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman