DRN-1531823
The complaint
Ms C complains on behalf of Mr S that Motability Operations Limited (MO) didnt tax Mr Ss 
Motability car which led to delays with a repair and didnt tell him about arrears that had built 
up on the account.
What happened
Ms C explains that when Mr S and his family were away on holiday in May 2019 Mr Ss 
Motability car had a puncture. Ms C says that Mr S called MO to arrange a repair. Ms C said 
that Mr S was told that the car wasnt taxed, and this would delay any repair. Because of this 
delay the family were without a car while they were on holiday. Ms C says that Mr S tried to 
tax the car directly, but he discovered from the DVLA that it had not been taxed for many 
months since February 2017. Mr S is upset that he was driving around in an untaxed car 
which could have had serious consequences.
Mr S complained to MO about this and it agreed to refund Mr S some of the money he had 
paid for excursions during his holiday. Ms C says that Mr S was very upset on holiday and 
this refund isnt enough.
In its final response letter MO pointed out to Mr S that there were arrears of £920.46 on his 
account which related to a period between January and April 2017 when Mr Ss payments 
had been stopped. MO hadnt told Mr S about these arrears before. Ms C explains that Mr S 
has now paid these arrears but feels that they should be waived because of the delay and 
poor service from MO.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. They 
thought that MO had made an error in not taxing Mr Ss car for a long period of time which 
could have had significant implications. They thought that MO should pay Mr S £100 for this 
error. Our investigator thought that MO had been fair and reasonable in refunding Mr S the 
costs of the family excursions and paying an amount to reflect a weeks car hire. So she 
didnt think it should do any more about this aspect of the complaint, but she did think that 
MO should pay £100 to reflect the distress this had caused whilst on holiday. Our 
investigator thought that MO had acted unreasonably in not notifying Mr S of the arrears on 
his account at the time so that he could make arrangements to pay them. She didnt think 
the charges should be waived but thought that MO should pay a further £100 to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused by this issue.
MO didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it was disappointed that the investigator 
had reached a view without waiting for further information from it relating to the length of time 
the car was untaxed. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint although it didnt 
say why it didnt agree with the investigators view or provide any other documents. It also 
asked the investigator to clarify the compensation amount. Our investigator responded that 
as she had the information from the DVLA there was no need to wait for a reply and she 
confirmed that her recommendation was £300 compensation in total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information received from the DVLA is that Mr Ss car was untaxed from 16 February 
2017 until 1 May 2019. I dont consider that it was unfair for the investigator to reach her 
view without waiting for this information from MO because she had received it directly from 
the DVLA. In any event, MO hasnt provided any information to show this was incorrect.
Failing to tax the car during this period exposed Mr S to potentially serious consequences 
from enforcement agencies and potentially impacting on the validity of his insurance. It is 
fortunate that there were no consequences for Mr S and he remained unaware of it until the 
repair issue in May 2019. Nevertheless, I can appreciate how upset Mr S must have been 
when he discovered this and I agree with the investigator that MO should pay him £100 to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused.  
It isnt disputed that the failure to tax the car had an impact on the repair and caused a delay. 
In these circumstances I agree with the investigator that MO has done enough to 
compensate for any out of pocket expenses by refunding the excursion costs and paying for 
an amount to reflect a weeks car hire. I appreciate that this ruined Mr Ss holiday, and I 
agree with the investigator that in light of this MO should pay a further £100 to reflect the 
upset caused.
There was a period between January and April 2017 when Mr Ss payments had been 
stopped by the DWP to MO. The payments were later restarted. Because of a system error 
MO didnt tell Mr S about the arrears on his account until it sent the final response letter in 
June 2019. Mr S was understandably shocked to receive this letter. The letter proposed that 
MO deduct the compensation for the delay in repairing the car from the outstanding arrears. 
I agree with the investigator that MO should have taken steps to notify Mr S about the 
arrears much sooner and make arrangements with him to repay them. I can understand how 
upsetting it was to be told about this substantial amount outstanding following his complaint 
about the failure to tax the car. I agree with the investigator that MO should pay Mr S £100 to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused by this. I dont think the arrears should be waived as Mr 
S had the use of the car when under the rules, he wasnt entitled to it. I understand the 
payment has now been made to clear the arrears.  
Putting things right
I think that MO should pay Mr S a further £300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Motability 
Operations Limited should pay Mr S £300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman