DRN-3120524
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) have failed to refund £4,800 he 
lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr R fell victim to an investment scam, whereby he transferred over £16,000 to fraudulent 
merchants (Trade Capital and Extick) using his debit card with another bank (which isnt the 
subject of this complaint). 
Mr R submitted a withdrawal request to Extick in December 2018 but received no response 
from the merchant. He later received a call from an individual claiming to be from Exticks 
Mismanagement Recovery department, who said they knew he was having problems with 
withdrawing his money. They said they could recover his funds, but that the value of his 
investment had fallen, meaning he would have to pay more money into his account first 
before he was able to make a withdrawal. Mr R paid the scammer £4,800 on 11 January 
2019 using his Tesco credit card, which was paid into a Coinpop wallet (where the funds 
were then subsequently transferred to the scammer). He later realised he had been 
scammed when he didnt receive any further contact. 
Mr R reported the scam to Tesco, who refused to provide him with a refund as he had 
authorised the transaction. It also said he couldnt recover his money under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 as he had paid the funds to a trading account, and because the 
debtor-creditor-supplier chain had been broken. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She noted that Tesco questioned Mr R about the 
payment before processing it on 11 January 2019 but did not think its intervention went far 
enough. Had it gone further, the investigator thought that Tesco would have revealed the 
scam and prevented Mr Rs loss. Tesco disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me 
to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. 
Tesco have said that they are not persuaded that Extick is a fraudulent trader. However, 
based on what Ive seen, I am satisfied that Extick were not carrying out legitimate binary-
options/forex trades but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers e.g. by not actually 
making trades/bets with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online 
trading platform to show purported gains in order to induce further investments from 
victims such as Mr R. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
Prior to January 2018, binary-options dealers were required to be licensed by the 
UKs Gambling Commission, and thereafter by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Extick were not registered wither either, nor were they regulated in any other 
jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were likely operating 
illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with 
regulatory requirements. 
There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that Extick are scammers. This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
But having concluded that this was a scam, its also necessary to consider whether the 
disputed payments were unusual or uncharacteristic enough for Mr Rs account such that 
they ought reasonably to have triggered an intervention by Tesco.
Tesco is aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers safeguarding and 
due-diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We 
have published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the 
relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr R for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by him using the legitimate security credentials provided by Tesco.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Tesco that Mr Rs account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments). It is also common ground that there were 
such fraud triggers in this case because Tesco did in fact intervene by blocking the payment, 
where they called Mr R to discuss it before allowing it to be processed. Accordingly, its just 
a question of whether the bank did enough in all the circumstances with that intervention. 
When Tesco spoke to Mr R on 11 January 2019, it asked him what the transaction was for, 
to which he responded that he was purchasing Bitcoin, which is what he thought he was 
doing. Tesco proceeded to ask Mr R if it was the case that he was purchasing it off his own 
back or whether someone had asked him to do it for them, to which he said he was 
purchasing it for himself. However, no further questions were asked, and the payment was 
processed. 
At the time the payment was made, Tesco ought to have had a good understanding of how 
investment scams commonly work. And given the size of the payment, and that it was being 
used to purchase cryptocurrency from an online platform, I would have expected the bank to 
have asked additional question about the context and purpose of the transaction. While it is 
not up to our service to dictate which questions a bank should ask, Tesco couldve, for 
example, asked how Mr R had come to make the purchase in the first place, and whether he 
was being assisted by a third party in the purchase. They couldve also asked if he had 
opened the Coinpop account himself (which he hadnt), as this would have also given a 
strong indication that he was in the process of being scammed. This would have formed part 
of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a prominent 
type of scam.
Had Tesco asked such questions on 11 January 2019, Im satisfied it would have become 
apparent at that point that Mr R was falling victim to an investment scam. Tesco submit that Mr R would not have been forthcoming with what he was doing even if it had asked further 
questions. But Ive seen little to suggest this would have been the case. 
Mr R was truthful when asked what the purchase was for, as he said he was buying Bitcoin. I 
appreciate he said he was buying the cryptocurrency for himself, but this technically wasnt 
an incorrect answer in response to Tescos question. Tesco asked him if he was doing it for 
himself or if anyone had asked him to do it for them. Mr R wasnt purchasing the Bitcoin for 
anyone else, so he wasnt untruthful in his response. If Tesco wanted to discern whether 
someone else was involved in the purchase, then it ought to have clearly asked this 
question. But it didnt. 
If Tesco had asked such further questions and for more of the basic surrounding context, I 
consider its likely that Mr R would have explained what he was doing and that everything 
had originated from a third party broker, who had said he had to invest further money in 
order to release the money he had already invested  which would have been a clear 
indication he was being scammed. 
I appreciate that Coinpop is a legitimate trader. But I think Tesco still should have provided a 
scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about the increasing number of 
scams associated with cryptocurrency. 
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with 
crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud. For example, the FCA and Action 
Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. Regulated businesses 
ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. By the time Mr R made the payment to 
Coinpop, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to 
conclude that banks, such as Tesco, had also had time to digest these warnings and put 
mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud.
Even if an intervention by the bank wouldve identified that the payment was going to the 
consumers own account with Coinpop (which he said was set up by the fraudsters), the 
conversation should not have stopped only on the basis that the money appeared to be 
going somewhere safe and within the consumers control.
I say this because, by the time Mr R made these payments, I think Tesco had or ought
to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to
identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the consumer often first purchases a
crypto asset or sends money to a platform where the money is subsequently moved on to or
taken by the fraudster. So, it is with this in mind that I think Tesco ought to have probed 
further about then nature and context of the payment Mr R was making.
In light of this, I think Mr Rs losses were foreseeable to Tesco despite the payment on the 
face of it not leaving the consumers control. And Im satisfied that had the bank asked 
relevant questions of Mr R when it spoke to him, it would have been apparent that he was 
falling victim to a scam. In other words, but for Tescos failure to make further enquiries, it 
would have been on actual notice that Mr R was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. 
Had Tesco provided Mr R with a warning, it would have likely alerted him to the common 
issues arising in relation to binary options and cryptocurrency scams which, in turn, would 
have led him to second guess the brokers credentials and why he was being asked to invest 
yet more money in order to make a withdrawal. The result of this is that it would have likely 
stopped Mr R from making the payment with his credit card. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Tesco can fairly and reasonably he held responsible for the loss 
Mr R has suffered, as I think it could have ultimately prevented it. I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as Tesco do not 
have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. 
However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised 
investment advice  so I do not think the bank wouldve acted out of line, had it warned Mr R 
along the lines that Ive described.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. I have 
duly considered whether Mr R should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, in this case, I do not think he could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was a scam and simply did not appreciate what he was doing 
or the consequences of his actions. He is not an experienced investor, and while I 
appreciate there was anecdotal evidence of the trader being a scam online, I do not place 
too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain, because of the 
information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
All in all, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr R was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mr R was a layperson. Therefore, I do not consider it would 
be appropriate to reduce compensation in these circumstances.
Finally, given that I think it fair and reasonable for Tesco to refund Mr R the amount he has 
lost, I do not consider it necessary to determine whether he would be entitled to recover his 
money under a Section 75 or chargeback claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc 
to:
(1) Refund Mr R the £4,800 loss incurred from his credit card as a result of the payment 
he made as part of the scam and rework his account to reimburse any interest and 
charges levied as a result, as though the payments had not taken place.
(2) Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments Mr R made towards the credit 
balance as a result of the scam, from the date he paid them to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman