DRN-3080405
The complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of Mr G, has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) irresponsibly lent £7,000 to Mr G, which he then spent on gambling. 
Throughout my decision Ill refer to Mr G, although this also refers to anything Mrs G said on 
Mr Gs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. Instead Ill provide a brief summary, and then Ill give the reasons for my decision. 
In September 2019 Mr G applied for a £7,000 loan with Halifax via online banking. 
In the application Mr G declared his monthly income as £1,709 and the purpose of the loan 
as being for Miscellaneous. The loan repayments were set as £163.58 per month, to be 
repaid over 48 months. 
Mr G complained to Halifax about it granting him the loan. He explained that he suffers with 
a medical condition for which he takes medication. Mr G explained that the medication is 
well-known for causing obsessive or compulsive behaviour, which is commonly gambling. So 
Mr G has complained that he was able to take the loan without Halifax scrutinising the 
purpose of it or reviewing his existing relationship and spending habits with the bank. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In its very brief final response letter, it said that it had 
completed the checks that it needed to, so it was satisfied that it hadnt lent irresponsibly to 
Mr G. But it did pay him £50 for the delay in replying to the complaint.
As Mr G was unhappy with Halifaxs response, he referred it to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He didnt 
think Halifax shouldve given the loan to Mr G, so he said Halifax shouldnt benefit from the 
lending. He recommended Halifax should refund all of the interest and any applicable 
charges. Halifax agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Mr G didnt. He 
explained that had Halifax not granted him the loan, he wouldnt be in the position hes in 
now, repaying it. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome the investigator reached, and the way he 
recommended things should be put right. Ill explain why. 
Id firstly like to explain that Im in no way discrediting anything that Mr and Mrs G have said 
in relation to this complaint. I certainly understand how frustrating the situation is. But in 
deciding how to put things right I have to firstly take the point at which things went wrong  
and then attempt to look at what wouldve happened, had they not gone wrong.
Halifax is required to use the information available to it before making an informed lending 
decision. That includes, but isnt limited to, information available from credit reference 
agencies, information it gathers by asking its customer, and information it already holds 
about the customer, for example other accounts. 
Having reviewed Mr Gs Halifax credit card statements for the months preceding the loan 
application, it is glaringly obvious that the pattern of spending  almost exclusively on 
gambling  is not what most people would consider normal or unproblematic. In July and 
August 2019 alone, there are hundreds of transactions to the same online gambling retailer. 
And I think it was irresponsible of Halifax to overlook this information, especially given that 
this was money being spent on credit, and not from Mr Gs current account. 
When Halifax completed its affordability assessment as part of the application process, it 
took into account over £6000 in gambling proceeds, as opposed to just Mr Gs regular 
pension income. This was a clear anomaly, given that Mr G declared his income on the 
application as just over £1700 per month, and his actual income in the preceding three 
months was £736, £1694 and £8670. Whilst excluding the gambling proceeds it still looks as 
though the loan was affordable for Mr G, I dont think it was responsible for Halifax to 
overlook this fact  and I think it shouldve prompted Halifax to ask Mr G more questions or 
to take a closer look at his finances, at least establish the purpose of the loan.
Although I understand Mr G says he wouldnt have had to repay the debt if Halifax hadnt 
lent him the money in the first place, the fact remains that Mr G has in fact had the loan and 
spent it. Its impossible to recreate a scenario in which Mr G had used more or less of the 
funds for gambling, but its certainly evident that he used a large part of them for that 
purpose. Ive kept in mind that Mr G is now repaying money he spent without having 
anything tangible to show for it, but Im also mindful that Mr G did apply for, and spend, the 
loan. And Im not aware that Halifax had any information about Mr Gs medical conditions, 
nor any instruction that it should limit the products or services it offered to Mr G.
I do understand Mr Gs likely to be disappointed with my decision here, but for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im not asking Halifax to write off the loan balance. I dont think its fair for 
Halifax to benefit from lending to Mr G, but nor do I think it should lose out. So although Im 
not asking Halifax to write off the full balance, I do think the interest charged on the loan, 
plus any charges, should be refunded.
It follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Halifax to refund all interest and charges that have been applied to Mr Gs loan 
account. Halifax can reduce the outstanding capital balance by this amount if the loan hasnt 
been fully repaid yet. 
Halifax must also remove any adverse data about the loan from Mr Gs credit file. 
This award is in addition to the £50 already paid to Mr G for Halifaxs delays in handling the 
complaint. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to put things right 
by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman