DRN-3021572
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited wont take 
further action on their claim for Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI).
For ease of reading, and as shes been involved with most of the correspondence, Ill mostly 
refer to Mrs P. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some key events here. In 2016 Mrs P entered into a tenancy agreement. 
She experienced issues with damp at the property. 
Mrs P has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by DAS. In 
2019 she wanted to take legal action against her letting agent and/or landlord, so she 
contacted DAS. 
DAS appointed a panel solicitor D to look into the claim. D considered it but ultimately 
concluded that Mrs Ps intended legal action didnt have reasonable prospects of success 
(which was a requirement for cover under the policy). Mrs P complained, she was unhappy 
with the way shed been treated throughout the claims process. She didnt think her 
individual needs had been taken into consideration. She was also unhappy with DAS 
decision and wanted them to instruct another solicitor for a second opinion. 
DAS considered the complaint. They explained that they werent responsible for the service 
provided by D and they maintained that the claim had been correctly declined. They said if 
Mrs P were to source her own barristers opinion, theyd further consider the claim. But they 
accepted they could have provided better service and offered £200 compensation for the 
impact of this. 
Mrs P remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the claims decision was fair and 
that the compensation was likewise fair for the impact of the service DAS were responsible
for. Mrs P didnt accept this as resolution to her complaint and so has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
outcome to our investigator. Mrs Ps strength of feeling on this matter is clear and I 
understand this will still be disappointing  so, Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ps policy says We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and 
expenses for the insured incidents in this section as long as reasonable prospects exist for 
the duration of the claim. The term reasonable prospects is given a specific definition in the 
policy of For civil cases, the prospects that you will recover losses or damagesmust be at 
least 51%...
Terms like this are common to nearly all LEI policies and I dont think this term is inherently 
unfair. The cost of litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally 
continue funding legal action if they were unlikely to win, so I dont think an insurer should 
have to either. 
DAS themselves arent lawyers. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified legal 
advice, unless that advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to 
identify it. 
In this case, Ive seen more than one legal opinion written by D in the course of assessing 
the claim. I appreciate Mrs P questions the qualifications of the authors, but Im satisfied 
each person was suitably qualified to give an opinion on the prospects of Mrs Ps intended 
legal action succeeding. The opinions set out their reasons and all arrive at the conclusion 
that there arent reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy. I dont think 
these opinions are obviously wrong and I think it is fair for DAS to rely on them to decline the 
claim. 
I appreciate there was an issue around whether D could share the content of their 
assessments with DAS. But the opinions have since been shared and this doesnt impact on 
my thoughts about the decision DAS made at the relevant time. 
Mrs P says that her claim was incorrectly assessed against the contract disputes section of 
her policy. She believes the claim should be for negligence with an element of 
discrimination. In their complaint response DAS explained that there was no cover available 
under the policy for negligence in this context. Ive reviewed the policy documents and whilst 
there is cover available for clinical negligence, I dont think DAS position is unfair or 
unreasonable in concluding that there is no cover that would potentially benefit Mrs P 
beyond what was considered under the contract disputes section.
And until the prospects of success have been confirmed, there isnt cover available under 
the policy. So, I dont think DAS are being unfair when refusing to allow Mrs P to instruct her 
own solicitor under the policy. Mrs Ps claim had been declined before it reached the point 
where she was entitled to freedom of choice. 
However DAS said that they would reconsider things if Mrs P were to provide a barristers 
opinion supporting the prospects of her legal claim. DAS themselves only have a solicitors 
opinion on file to evidence that the claim doesnt have the required prospects. I dont think 
this is fair. The cost of a barristers opinion will be greater than that of a solicitor. I dont think 
DAS should insist on Mrs P providing a barristers opinion. If Mrs P were to provide a 
supportive solicitors opinion, it would be for DAS to then instruct a barrister to resolve the 
dispute as to prospects. But I dont think it is fair and reasonable to expect Mrs P as the 
customer, to bear the increased cost of a barristers opinion in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mrs P was unhappy with the service she received from both D and DAS. I can only comment 
on the service DAS have provided. Even though DAS were funding D, DAS arent 
responsible for the quality of the legal advice or the level of service provided. I know Mrs P 
disputes this, but D arent an agent of the underwriter and will have their own regulator and 
complaints process. 
DAS accepted that theyd provided some poor service and Mrs P certainly feels that is the 
case. So all that remains to be decided is whether the £200 compensation DAS have 
already offered is fair. I appreciate that this whole experience has been particularly troubling 
for Mrs P. And being involved in any potential legal action is always likely to be a stressful time. Ive also carefully thought about Mrs Ps individual circumstances and the impact of the 
poor service upon her. Ive carefully listened to a call that Mrs P felt was particularly poor 
and upsetting. And having done so, I think the £200 DAS have offered is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, Im not going to direct that this amount needs to be increased. 
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from Mr and 
Mrs P or DAS, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. 
I intend to direct that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited:
Pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation (unless they have already done so);
only require a supportive opinion on prospects from a solicitor in order to further 
consider Mr and Mrs Ps claim. If a supportive solicitors opinion is provided by Mr 
and Mrs P, DAS should instruct a barrister to resolve the dispute as to prospects.
Both Mrs P and DAS responded with some further comments. Having considered the 
responses from both sides I reached a different outcome and so in July 2021 I issued a 
further provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I maintain that it is fair for DAS to rely on Ds legal opinion to decline Mrs Ps claim for the 
reasons Ive previously explained. I previously said that I didnt consider it fair for DAS to 
insist on Mrs P providing a barristers opinion to overrule the solicitors opinion that they had 
on file from D. 
DAS pointed out that in the event of Mrs P providing a solicitors opinion the claim would be 
no further forward as a barrister would still need to be consulted to resolve the dispute as to 
prospects. I agree and accept this is the case. There is also a relevant term in the policy that 
relates to this issue. It says:
We may require you to get, at your own expense, an opinion from an expert that we 
consider appropriate, on the merits of the claim or proceedings, or on a legal principle. The 
expert must be approved in advance by us and the cost agreed in writing between you and 
us. Subject to this, we will pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion indicates 
that it is more likely than not that you will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy 
that we have agreed to)
DAS policy has set out from the start that they can make the request that Mrs P obtain an 
expert opinion to support her claim. And in this case (and where legal matters are 
concerned) I think a barrister can fairly be considered to be an expert. I also note that from 
the initial decline of Mrs Ps claim DAS made clear that it was specifically a barristers 
opinion that would be required. So, I dont think they misled Mrs P in this regard or didnt 
make this clear.  
Mrs P doesnt believe that this provision in the policy is sufficient reason for DAS to insist on 
a barristers opinion. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Ultimately, the policy terms form 
the basis of the cover provided. And I dont think that DAS insistence on a barristers 
opinion, where theyve made provision for this in the policy terms (as they have here) and 
where theyve made this clear when the claim was declined, is unfair. And as DAS have 
acted in line with the policy terms and fairly, Im no longer intending to direct them to do 
anything further in relation to Mrs Ps claim. If Mrs P were to engage with the above term and 
this resulted in a positive barristers opinion being provided, Id expect DAS to consider 
things further. Mrs P has also highlighted that she feels her claim has been assessed against the incorrect 
policy terms. Shes provided a copy of what she believes to be the correct terms. She 
believes this means that DAS assessment is flawed. Its likely that DAS as the underwriter 
of LEI will provide the same policy to more than one main home insurer. LEI is commonly 
an add-on to home insurance policies. But in any case, the policy details that Mrs P has 
provided include the same wording and requirements as the policy that DAS provided to our 
service. So, I dont agree the claim has been incorrectly assessed against the wrong terms  
the relevant wording is the same.  
Mrs P also made detailed further submissions which Ive read and considered. Much of 
these re-iterated her position or concerned the actions of solicitors (that I cant comment on). 
And having considered all Mrs P has said, Im not persuaded that DAS need to do more than 
theyve already offered to. I appreciate this whole incident has been upsetting for Mrs P, and 
I understand that she is likely to be unhappy with this further provisional decision. Both 
parties accept that there was poor service by DAS. But Im still not persuaded that the £200 
compensation that has already been offered needs to be increased. I think this fairly 
compensates Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience that DAS have caused her.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from Mr and 
Mrs P or DAS, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. 
I intend to direct that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited pay Mr and Mrs P 
£200 compensation (unless they have already done so).
DAS had nothing further to add. Mrs P responded with some further comments which Ill 
address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of what Mrs P has said reiterated her position and has already been covered above. 
This includes that she believes DAS assessed her claim against the wrong policy wording. 
Part of her submissions said: even though the wording is the same, they are completely 
different policies. Where the policy wording is the same (which Mrs P herself accepts), I 
remain satisfied it hasnt made a difference to the outcome of her claim. 
Mrs P also provided a transcript of the call in question between her and DAS. I have 
however listened to a recording of that call and my thoughts remain as outlined above. 
Mrs P said that her claim ought to have been considered under the property protection 
section of the policy rather than as a contract dispute. Broadly speaking that section 
provides cover in relation to damage to physical property, legal nuisance or trespass. The 
original claim made was for assistance following Mrs P moving out of a rented property early 
due to mould and the consequences of this. I dont think DAS were wrong in not considering 
her claim under the property protection section of the policy. If Mrs P is now saying that there 
was physical damage to her personal property and she believes she has a valid claim in this 
regard, then she should contact DAS about that. But there is an exclusion to that section 
which refers to contracts that Mrs P had entered into. So I dont think DAS were unreasonable to say that no cover was available under that section in relation to a contract 
dispute with either Mrs Ps landlord or letting agent. 
Mrs P has also said that my intention to uphold the complaint and to direct that DAS pay her 
£200 is pointless as the £200 has already been paid. My intention wasnt to cause confusion, 
and in wording my decision in that way it would have given Mrs P the option to accept the 
decision and therefore make the payment of the compensation (had it not already been paid) 
legally binding on DAS. But in these circumstances, I accept Mrs Ps point and accordingly 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman