DRN-3895378
The complaint
Mrs L says Santander UK PLC, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her 
credit card which paid towards wedding services.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs L used her Santander credit card to make payment towards her 
wedding planned for November 2020. Further payments were made in the following months. 
As the wedding day approached lockdown restrictions were brought in. And Mrs L (and her 
now husband Mr L) discussed the matter with the wedding supplier at length on a number of 
occasions. The supplier offered a change of date for free or a refund less costs. The supplier 
then refunded over two thousand pounds but retained four thousand pounds for costs. So 
Mrs L complained to the supplier, but the supplier felt it hadnt done anything wrong. So she 
took her complaint to Santander.
Santander considered the matter but didnt feel it had done anything wrong. So it didnt 
refund Mrs L the four thousand pounds. Mrs L, unhappy with this, brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigator issued assessments on the matter saying that Santander should have 
pursued the matter further through the Chargeback process. And as it hadnt done so the 
Investigator felt Santander should refund the four thousand pounds because the investigator 
felt that if Santander had pursued the matter properly that Mrs L would have got this money 
back. Santander have repeatedly challenged the position of the investigator and in the end 
exercised its right to having an Ombudsman consider the matter. And accordingly this case 
came to me.
In December 2022 I issued a provisional decision which explained that thinking at the time 
was that Santander hadnt treated Mrs L unfairly. Both Santander and Mrs L have responded 
to my provisional decision. Santander agreed with the position. Mrs L made further 
arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the subsequent comments made by the parties I see no persuasive 
reason to deviate from my provisional thinking. Ive dealt with Mrs Ls further arguments 
towards the end of this decision. And for those reasons and for the reasons below which are 
my provisional thinking on the matter I have decided that Mrs Ls complaint does not 
succeed.
my provisional arguments and findings
Mrs L used her Santander credit card to pay the supplier for the wedding services. This 
means Santander has certain responsibilities to Mrs L (if certain criteria are met) which arise 
from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). 
Santander is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this 
network has rules which includes giving Santander an avenue for card transactions to be 
disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Santander and whether it 
did what it should have and whether it treated Mrs L fairly. This decision isnt about the 
supplier, which isnt within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. 
I hope this distinction is clear. I appreciate Mrs Ls strength of feeling here but this decision is 
solely about Santander and whether it did what it should have.
could Santander challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs L 
does here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback 
process. This isnt a right for consumers and firms arent obliged to raise a chargeback. 
However this service does think its good practice for firms to raise a chargeback when it 
feels it has a reasonable prospect of success.
Mrs L doesnt dispute that she used her Santander credit card here. Nor does she dispute 
the amount, date, or any other details about the transaction. So I dont think Santander 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs L didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
When Mrs L raised the matter with Santander it says it set up a chargeback process and on 
two occasions wrote to Mrs L asking for more information, but it didnt get a response. So it 
didnt take the chargeback any further. Ive considered what has happened here and Im not 
persuaded on balance that a chargeback would have been successful, and Im not 
persuaded Santander can be held accountable under S75 either. Ill explain why.
I can see on 18 August 2020 Mr L emailed the supplier to discuss the wedding services to 
be provided in light of increasing restrictions with regard to the pandemic at that time. In this 
email Mr L mentions the suppliers offer of moving dates but notes they hadnt given up on 
the agreed date yet. So its clear to me from this email that both parties were discussing the 
matter and willing to change the arrangements made originally in order to have the best 
possible day. In short they were negotiating to vary the contract in order to take into account 
the pandemic restrictions.
There are numerous emails between the supplier and Mr L. On 29th September 2020 the 
supplier emails Mr and discusses changing the arrangements in light of increasing 
restrictions but notes Like you both, we are very much keen to work together to make sure 
you have the most memorable day, and we are extremely confident we can do so. So the 
pattern of sensible negotiation and discussion between the parties is continuing despite the 
increasing restrictions and risk of the wedding being impacted by the Pandemic.On 15 October 2020 there is a call between the Supplier and Mr L. There is no recording of 
this call, but the Supplier sends Mr L an email the following day (16/10/20). In that email it 
starts the email by saying:
Lovely to talk to you last night (Mr L) and once again we are just devastated with the new 
restrictions and my heart goes out to you both. Apologies for the slight delay in getting this to 
you - firefighting would be an understatement today as the announcement understandably 
has put a lot of people in a spin. I know that we talked about the options for a free of charge 
postponement and totally understand your
reasons (congrats on the new job (Mr L)!) and why you would just prefer a refund less costs 
instead which isn't a problem.
Ive considered this carefully and on balance Im satisfied that during that call an agreement 
was reached between the parties and that involved Mr L and Mrs L receiving a refund less 
costs from the supplier. It is of note that it appears from the email and the general tenor of 
the emails between the parties that the amount to be apportioned to costs in relation to these 
arrangements hadnt been described numerically but rather only agreed in principle. I also 
note the parties were still liaising on good terms.
On the 19 October Mr L emails the supplier saying he hoped to have clarity on the matter by 
now but I do understand your current position. Later that day the supplier responds that it 
had not done such a refund before and was trying to ensure that the costs were in line with 
best practice. The following day Mr L responds explaining he understands but asks the 
supplier to try and get the answer promptly as I would really like this to be off both of our 
desk before the week of the wedding.
On the 5 November there are further emails to arrange a call between the parties which 
evidently happened that day (there is no call recording). Mr L then emails the supplier after 
the call and says:
Thanks for the call and update. As discussed, it is our position that we do not accept these 
final costs. A cost breakdown/justification will have to be reviewed by our accountant and 
solicitor. I would appreciate it if you could forward this information on receipt of this email. 
Thank you for agreeing to pay us the interim amount of £2750.00 today, with final 
costs/balance to be agreed at a later date following review.
I think it is evident from this email that during the call the supplier set out their costs and thus 
the amount the supplier intended to retain from the sums already paid by Mrs L and Mr L. It 
seems clear to me that this amount was significantly higher than Mr L and Mrs L had 
envisaged. But it is also clear to me that the principal of refund less costs had been agreed 
during the call of 15 October as evidenced by the email of 16 October. So it is clear to me 
that from the 15 October onward the parties had agreed that there were to be no wedding 
services provided on the wedding day. And in essence the contract had been varied by 
agreement by both parties that the contract would conclude by refund less costs and that the 
agreement was in principle without Mr L and Mrs L (and indeed the supplier) knowing what 
those costs would amount to numerically at that point as those costs were yet to be 
established.
And accordingly I am not persuaded that a Chargeback would have been successful had 
Santander pursued a chargeback as far as it could. I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly 
the chargeback scheme is a scheme for disputes between merchants and cardholders and 
operates through a straightforward process which operates in isolation. And Im not 
persuaded that any of the chargeback reason codes fit this situation as Santander has 
pointed out. And although the Investigator argued that the supplier couldnt have supplied on the due date this was irrelevant as the parties had already agreed in advance of the wedding 
day not to continue with the planning but rather to agree to a refund less costs. So although 
the contract had been varied by mutual agreement it had been fulfilled as the refund had 
been made. So neither the chargeback codes of goods/services not provided nor refund 
not processed would have been successful to my mind. And having considered all the other 
chargeback codes available Im not persuaded that any of them would have led to Mrs L and 
Mr L recouping more money than theyve already received. 
So although it is arguable that Santander could have taken the chargeback further, Im not 
persuaded this makes a difference. Ultimately it is my current thinking that had it taken the 
Chargeback as far as it could, it would have been unsuccessful.
Section 75
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Debtors such as Mrs L can bring a like 
claim against creditors (such as Santander here) for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by suppliers as long as certain criteria are met. Im satisfied the financial limits criteria here is 
met and I think the required Debtor-Creditor-Supplier relationship is met also. 
I have considered the terms and conditions here and note that they are in essence a 
relatively simple and brief set of terms and conditions designed to cover the majority of likely 
scenarios and no more. And they clearly dont envisage such an event as the pandemic or 
how to deal with such issues. Nor do they set out the arrangements for the services 
originally agreed in this case nor the agreed alterations to the contract between the parties in 
the course of trying to accommodate the changing restrictions due to the pandemic. But I 
must consider that Santander has liability under a like claim and that would be how a claim 
against the supplier would be considered. And such consideration would include all the 
agreements made in the course of the contract as the parties agreed various matters along 
the way.
Im satisfied that the supplier made clear to Mrs L and Mr L that they could change dates or 
have a refund less costs. And Im satisfied that, as Ive described, Mrs L and Mr L agreed to 
that, knowing that at that point neither party had a numerical figure for how much those costs 
would be. So it is my current thinking that there has not been a breach of contract that 
Santander can be held liable for. Nor am I persuaded that there has been a material 
misrepresentation which led to Mrs L and Mr L losing out which Santander can be held 
responsible for either.
Mrs Ls further arguments
As I described in my provisional decision this is a decision solely about Santander. However 
Mrs Ls comments include very little argument as to what Santander actually did wrong here. 
But Santander is only responsible for the things it does wrong.
Mrs L says Ive made assumptions to come to my decision. I am required to make findings 
on the balance of probabilities and that is what Ive done. And I have made findings based 
on the evidence. I feel Ive particularly made clear the basis which Ive made these findings-
mainly on the emails between the parties at the time and what the parties have said since. I 
note she doesnt specifically contend an agreement was made for refund less costs 
between the parties. Santander wasnt either of the parties who made that agreement and 
the responsibility for making that agreement sits with those parties.
Mrs L says a chargeback was never offered to her by Santander. I can see that Santander 
tried to support Mrs L by setting up a chargeback process and it wrote to Mrs L to gather 
evidence to support this process. And as Ive explained Santander didnt receive what it needed to take the matter forward from Mrs L. So it didnt do anything wrong by not taking 
the chargeback further. Nevertheless even if it had, I dont think it would have been 
successful due to the agreement of refund less costs that the parties agreed for the reasons 
Ive given.
Mrs L points to a payment made in relation to this contract which wasnt funded by 
Santander so she says how it can be used to support her complaint against Santander. S75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says, in essence, that in this case Santander can be held 
jointly and severally responsible as the supplier here for the entire contract not just the 
amount of the transaction it funded. This is in essence a like claim to that which Mrs L has 
in court against the supplier. And in such an instance the supplier can point to the money it 
returned, so Santander can similarly rely on that too to show that the supplier performed its 
side of the refund less costs agreement.
I do appreciate my decision as Ive described will be very disappointing to Mrs L and Mr L. 
And Im very sorry that what they had planned was usurped by the almost unprecedented 
impact of the Pandemic. And I completely appreciate that they feel theyve lost out 
substantially as a result of the costs amount that supplier has set out. However my decision 
here is solely about Santander and whether it has done what it should and whether it has 
treated Mrs L fairly. And I dont see how Santander has treated Mrs L unfairly here. Has she 
lost money, yes, but it isnt Santanders fault.
Summary
So all in all having considered the matter carefully Ive decided Santander needs to do 
nothing more here. I dont think a chargeback would have been successful. And I dont think 
there is a breach of contract here, as the parties agreed a course of action and that was 
fulfilled. And I see no persuasive reason for Santander to cover the amounts lost here due to 
the refund less costs agreement made between the parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to not uphold the complaint against Santander 
UK PLC. It has nothing more to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman