DRN-3825822
The complaint
Mrs C complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) have not refunded a 
series of transactions she has disputed. 
What happened
Mrs C raised a disputed transactions claim for a series of payments to a council she said she 
doesnt reside in. JLFS explained she had raised this claim too late as the transactions 
occurred more than 13 months ago. Mrs C explained that she as caring for her sick husband 
at the time so could not have raised it sooner, but JLFS explained the time limit could not be 
extended.
During this time, a further transaction of £65 went out to the unknown council so Miss C 
raised a claim about this. JLFS declined the claim as they felt the transaction appeared to be 
genuine. Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator agreed that the dispute about the earlier transactions was raised outside of 
the 13 month time limit, so JLFS was correct to decline them. However, they felt that the £65 
transaction should be refunded. Both JLFS and Mrs C disagreed with this outcome as JLFS 
felt the £65 was authorised by Mrs C and Mrs C felt the earlier transactions should be 
considered.
The complaint was passed to me and I came to a different outcome to the Investigator. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining my findings which read as follows:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont agree that JLFS should refund the disputed 
transaction of £65 as I think their rejection of Mrs Cs claim was reasonable based on the 
evidence available. So, Im not currently minded to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why in 
more detail.
Ive firstly considered the earlier transactions that Mrs C disputed which occurred between 
September 2018 and August 2020. Mrs C raised a dispute in November 2021, around 15 
months after the last transaction occurred. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009) is relevant here. According to PSR 
2009 Regulation 59, a payment service user is entitled to redress only if it notifies the 
payment service provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction.
As Mrs C raised the disputed transactions claim more than 13 months after the last debit 
date, I think it was reasonable for JLFS to decline to refund the transactions. Ive considered 
Mrs Cs comments about her circumstances  she says she was acting as a carer for her 
husband during the pandemic. I sympathise with Mrs Cs situation, but I have to consider 
that 13 months is a considerable amount of time in which to review financial accounts and 
notice unfamiliar payments. So even with the circumstances she has described, I think the 
time limit is reasonable. And I dont think JLFS has made an error when deciding not to 
refund the disputed transactions. 
Mrs C has also said that JLFS should have flagged the earlier payments as suspicious, and 
this would have alerted her to them. Having looked at the transactions and compared them 
to her normal account activity, I dont agree they appeared to be suspicious enough to have 
flagged on JLFS system. The value of the transactions was in line with the normal spending 
on Mrs Cs account and they did not suddenly increase the outstanding debt on the account 
to an unusual amount. So, I dont think JLFS made an error when the payments did not flag 
on their system. 
Ive gone on to consider the disputed transaction of £65 that debit Mrs Cs account in 
December 2021. Mrs C has said she did not authorise the payment and she does not 
recognise the merchant. 
Firstly, Ive considered whether the payment itself was authorised by Mrs C. Generally, the 
starting point is that JLFS can hold Mrs C liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
her account.
In this case, the genuine card details were used to make the transaction over the telephone, 
and so the payment was correctly authenticated. But this alone doesnt mean that Mrs C is 
liable. She also needs to have consented to the payment  either by making it herself or 
allowing someone else to act on her behalf. So, I need to consider whether JLFS has acted 
fairly in concluding that she did. 
JLFS has provided internal screenshots and confirmed that the payment was made over the 
telephone, and that the genuine card details were manually keyed during the phone call. 
This means that someone had to have access to Mrs Cs up to date credit card details and 
the call handler entered those details to confirm the payment. 
Mrs Cs credit card had been replaced around five months prior to the transaction. When we 
asked her about the possibility of a third-party having access to her card details, Mrs C 
confirmed that no one else had access to her credit card during that period. She kept her 
credit card in her handbag when outside the house and when it was within the house, she 
kept it in her office which no-one entered unsupervised. I note Mrs C informed JLFS of this 
during a telephone call.
Ive thought about this carefully, and I cannot identify a clear point of compromise for Mrs Cs 
credit card details. Meaning there is no reasonable explanation for how a third party has 
gained access to her credit card details in order to make the payment. JLFS noted that three 
other transactions to the merchant Mrs C is disputing were processed in the same way, 
though they have not provided evidence of this. And they concluded it did not seem 
reasonable that a third-party would take Mrs Cs card without her knowledge on several 
occasions and return after each use. I am not able to investigate the previous transactions, 
but I understand why they have come to that conclusion.
It should also be noted that the individual payment of £65 does not follow usual fraud trends 
that I would expect to see for a fraudulent payment. It is for a relatively low amount and while 
I appreciate there has been payments to the same merchant in the past, there has not been 
one for 16 months. And this is not typically what you would expect to see with a fraudulent 
payment. It follows that if there is no clear point of compromise for Mrs Cs credit card details, that 
JLFS decision that its more likely Mrs C authorised the payment herself is reasonable. 
Because of this, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not currently minded to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
Neither Mrs C nor JLFS responded to my provisional decision with any additional comments 
or evidence for me to consider.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate 
from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out above, I do not think JLFS has made an error in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against John Lewis Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman