DRN-4125068
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society cancelled his debit card without notice and 
then told him to visit a branch to collect a new card which it isnt possible for him to do.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S says that his online shopping order was cancelled, and he discovered his 
debit card wasnt working. He said his card had been cancelled even though it wasnt due to 
expire for another two years, and when he called Nationwide the adviser didnt tell him why 
this had happened. Mr S says he was told his new card, that had been sent to him by post, 
had been stopped and he now needed to visit a branch. Mr S explained that this wasnt 
possible due to his disability. He says the call went back and forth and the adviser hung up. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It explained that Mr Ss account automatically 
changed to a new account when he turned 23 and this meant a new card was issued. It said 
that because Mr S had moved and not updated his address when he contacted it in July 
2022, he didnt pass its validation questions which was why he was asked to visit a branch. It 
said that it had notes on its account from 2019 that Mr S had been in hospital, but it wasnt 
aware of any ongoing medical issues. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. He said that he was without access to his 
money for nine months as he didnt have a working bank card. He said he had to borrow 
money and was unable to pay for certain necessities. He says he had to postpone payments 
causing him embarrassment. He says he wasnt given a solution when he explained that due 
to his disability he couldnt travel to a branch and that Nationwide didnt answer his 
complaints. He referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that Nationwide had done anything wrong regarding the re-
issuing of Mr Ss new card. But she thought that Nationwide should have corresponded with 
Mr S around the time of the re-issue and that the card should have been sent to his address. 
Because of this she recommended Nationwide pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Nationwide accepted our investigators recommendation of £50 compensation. It explained 
that it wouldnt be able to send a replacement card to Mr Ss address until he had been 
validated by security and his details updated with the correct address. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view as he didnt think the compensation 
recommended was sufficient given the damage that had been caused. This complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how being without a card for his account was particularly inconvenient for 
Mr S. He has explained that following a serious accident he has been left disabled and is 
housebound. Given this he is reliant on online shopping and needs his debit card to do this. 
But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Nationwide had done 
something wrong or treated Mr S unfairly based on the information it had or what it ought 
reasonably to have been aware of at the time.
Mr S had a bank account with Nationwide. Under its terms and conditions that account 
changed to another account type when Mr S turned 23. This happened in June 2022 and at 
this point his existing debit card was stopped and a replacement sent. As this is set out in 
the account terms and conditions, I cannot say that Nationwide did anything wrong by 
changing Mr Ss existing account (which was designed for young people) to an adult 
account. 
As the account had changed a new card needed to be issued and this was also sent to the 
address held on file. As these actions were in line with the account terms, I cannot find that 
Nationwide did anything wrong at this point.
This issue has arisen because Mr S hadnt updated his address with Nationwide. Therefore, 
he didnt receive the new card. The new card was then stopped because Nationwide 
received notification that it hadnt been received. So, when Mr Ss card on his previous 
account ceased to be operational, he was left without a card to use. I can see this will have 
been worrying for Mr S but Nationwide had followed a reasonable process by sending the 
new card to Mr Ss address on file. It was because Mr S hadnt updated his address that the 
issue arose.
When Mr S called Nationwide in July 2022, he failed security because of his address not 
being up to date and he was asked to visit a branch. Nationwide has said it didnt have any 
notes on Mr Ss account about any ongoing health issues. Therefore, while clearly visiting a 
branch isnt an option for Mr S, as Nationwide wasnt aware of that at the time, I cant say it 
was wrong to suggest this initially when Mr S didnt pass security.
Mr S wrote to Nationwide explaining his circumstances and the cause for his complaint on 7 
July 2022. He then re-sent his letters on several occasions after. Unfortunately, as the 
address Mr S was using didnt match his address on file, and there was no email address 
recorded in his account details a final response letter couldnt be sent. There was a mobile 
phone number listed but I note Mr Ss letters asked for a response in writing. While I do not 
find I can say that Nationwide did anything wrong by not sending the final response or new 
debit card to the address Mr S was using as this hadnt been updated or validated, I think it 
could have done more to assist Mr S at this time. It could have tried to call him or sent a 
letter to the address he was using asking for him to get in touch. It appears a letter saying 
this was sent in October 2022.
Given this I think it reasonable that Mr S is paid compensation. I note that Mr S doesnt think 
£50 is sufficient given the damage he has been caused. But I have to take into account that 
Nationwide isnt able to send him a card to his new address until the validation process has 
happened.  
I can see that Mr S has provided a list of his recent addresses, but Nationwide has said that 
it needs to take Mr S through a validation process and then update his address with the 
correct details. I do not find this unreasonable. Once this has happened it will send a 
replacement card to the correct address. Mr S should contact Nationwide for this to happen 
and Nationwide should work with him to assist in this process being successfully completed. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should send Mr S a replacement card to his correct address once the validation process has been completed and Mr Ss address updated with the correct details. It should 
also, as it has agreed, pay him £50 compensation for the upset he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of hits complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman