DRN-3103218
The complaint
Mr Y complains about 3 loans provided to him by Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo, 
which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr Y was given 3 loans by Bamboo. The details of these are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment
1 02/08/2018 £3000 24 months £185.19
2 06/12/2018 £3630 24 months £208.60
3 30/09/2019 £4000 60 months £176.05
When Mr Y took out loan 2, he used part of the capital amount to repay loan 1. Mr Y still has 
an amount to repay on loan 3. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Loan 1
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr Y before it agreed to loan 1 in August 2018. It 
asked him for details of his income and his normal housing costs. It then checked Mr Ys 
credit file to determine how much he was paying to other lenders. It also verified his income 
using an online verification tool and it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to 
determine how much Mr Y would more likely spend on living expenses. 
Mr Y was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. He was agreeing to
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So, I think it is right that Bamboo 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ys financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim.
Im currently minded to think that its checks for loan 1 were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Bamboo gathered from Mr Y to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be given 
this loan.
Mr Y says his level of income at this time was £4200. He has since disputed this and said it 
was lower. But this is how much he had declared during the application process for loan 1, 
and this was verified by Bamboo. It also recorded down a rent payment of £800, credit 
commitments of £432 and arrived at an estimated figure for living expenses of £615. It then 
calculated Mr Ys disposable income as £2353 before it took into consideration the 
repayment from loan 1. I can see the credit search that it conducted at this time and there is 
nothing in it that ought to have caused Bamboo any concerns. When I look at the credit 
search results and also Bamboos assessment, I think on balance, it made a fair lending 
decision. The loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr Y.
Loans 2 and 3
Mr Y looked to refinance loan 1 around 4 months later, when he applied for loan 2. He would 
use part of the loan to repay loan 1 and then receive the rest. Bamboo again says it 
conducted the same checks. It recorded down his income, normal housing costs and asked 
Mr Y about his credit commitments. It also carried out a credit check.
Again, this was a significant commitment that Mr Y was entering into with Bamboo and this 
was his second loan with it. Mr Y was refinancing and was asking for more than he had 
asked for when he applied for loan 1. I would have at this stage expected Bamboo to 
conduct a complete review of Mr Ys finances to ascertain whether he would be able to 
sustainably make the repayments over the 24 months loan term. So, I think, as well as verify 
Mr Ys income, Bamboo should have also looked to verify his expenditure too. This is so it 
could assure itself of Mr Ys true financial position and that he could make the repayments in 
a sustainable way.
Mr Y then took out loan 3 around 9 months later. This was a new loan application as Mr Y 
had repaid loan 2 in June 2019. Mr Y was asking for more than the previous two loans and 
this time he was looking to repay his loan over 5 years. So again, I think Bamboo at this 
stage ought to have been looking to conduct a complete review of Mr Ys finances to verify 
his expenditure as well as his income. I say this in particular because the credit search 
results were showing it that Mr Ys unsecured debt was rising steadily and had done so 
incrementally from loan 1 to loan 2 and again it steadily increased when it carried out its 
checks for loan 3. So, I think it ought to at this stage, have wanted to assure itself that Mr Y 
could meet the repayments over the relatively long term of the loan in a sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did carry out the further checks that I have described above for loans 2 
or 3, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had.
Mr Y has recently provided statements to our service. He has sent in his personal bank 
statements for the period August to December 2018 and June to August 2019. So, I have 
reviewed the first set of statements and considered these in relation to loan 2. And then 
gone on to do the same with the second set of statements from 2019 for loan 3.
I have reviewed the bank statements for 2018 and in doing so can see that, in general Mr Y 
kept his account in good order. He did use his overdraft on a regular basis but there was not 
a lot of impaired credit data on the statements. In addition, I couldnt find any other loans or 
credit payments that hadnt already been picked up and assessed by Bamboo during the 
application for loan 2. Mr Ys living expenses were also largely similar to Bamboos 
estimation. There were however several gambling transactions on the statements and at one 
point during September in particular, Mr Y spent a significant sum on this. But I can see that 
this petered out and during November as the loan application date drew closer, Mr Y was not 
spending very much at all on gambling transactions. At least not enough that I think it would 
have caused Bamboo concerns about Mr Ys finances, if it had carried out further checks 
and seen this. So, on balance, after reviewing Mr Ys bank statements, I cant safely 
conclude that Bamboo would have found loan 2 unaffordable for Mr Y if it had carried out 
further checks.
I have also looked at the bank statements provided by Mr Y for 2019. Again, I can see that 
he maintained his account well with very little impaired credit data showing on any of the 
statements from this period. All of the unsecured loan data on the statements also all 
correlated to the credit search that Bamboo had carried out. And in general Mr Ys living expenses were broadly in line with Bamboos estimated figure too. Mr Y had spent very little 
on gambling transactions during this period as well.  The statements do not show me 
anything other than Mr Ys account during this time being a fair reflection on what was 
showing on the credit search, and what he had declared to Bamboo.
So, as this was the case, on this occasion Bamboos assessment carried out about loan 3 
was fairly accurate and it showed Mr Y would have comfortably been able to afford the 
repayments. So, it follows that I dont think Bamboo irresponsibly agreed to this loan either.
In conclusion, I think the checks Bamboo carried out for loan 1 were proportionate and on 
balance it made a fair lending decision. For loans 2 and 3 I think it should have looked to 
carry out further checks but based on what I could review I think the loans was affordable 
for Mr Y anyway.
So, I currently dont think Bamboo was wrong to give any of the loans to Mr Y based on the 
circumstances of his complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr Y responded through his representatives and said he was 
happy with the assessment. Bamboo responded and said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any additional or new points. So, as neither party has anything 
further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of this 
complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. 
With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman