DRN-3361126
The complaint
Mr V has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In 2015 AvantCredit provided Mr V with a loan of £2,900 repayable over 48 months with a 
monthly repayment of £144.14. He said the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. The 
loan has since been repaid.
Mr V complained that the loan was unaffordable. AvantCredit looked into his complaint but 
didnt uphold it. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan was 
affordable. 
Mr V referred his complaint to us. He said hed been struggling with debt at the time he took 
out the loan. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They didnt think AvantCredit should 
have advanced the loan to him. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Vs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr V would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr V wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Vs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr V undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr V. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
AvantCredit asked for information about Mr Vs income and expenses. Mr V said his net 
monthly income was £2,900 and his expenses came to £1,100. AvantCredit verified his 
income as £2,014. 
It also obtained a credit report. That showed Mr V had opened three new accounts in the 
previous three months and taken out credit of £3,858 in the last six months. There was an 
indication of over-indebtedness on the credit search. He was near the limits of his three 
credit cards and one credit card account was marked as delinquent. There had been 
recent reliance on pay day lending. He was paying £1,052 a month in respect of his credit 
commitments. That was over half his monthly income. Worryingly two accounts were on 
repayment plans. I think this ought to have caused AvantCredit some concern as it 
appeared Mr Vs finances might be strained and that any additional lending might not be 
sustainable. 
Given the amount of new credit Mr V had taken out over the last year and the size of the 
debts he was servicing compared with his income, I feel there is evidence there to show he 
was becoming increasingly reliant on credit. I would have expected AvantCredit to look more 
closely into his financial situation for example, by asking for bank statements or similar. 
Mr V has provided me with some bank statements from July to September 2015. I can see 
that he took out a payday loan of £650 in July and loans of £751 in August. It appears to me 
that Mr V was in a cycle of debt which was growing each month. This suggests to me he wouldnt be able to keep up the loan repayments with Avant Credit sustainably over the 48 
months of the loan term. 
AvantCredit has explained that the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. Mr V could 
have used the £2,900 loan to repay some of his short-term loans which in turn could have 
reduced his credit commitments going forward to an estimated £302.48. Adding on the new 
loan repayment to AvantCredit he would have been paying a total of £446.14 in credit 
commitments although more than this would have been needed to reduce his credit card 
debt of £1,721 in a meaningful way by him making more than the minimum monthly 
repayments. 
However, AvantCredit didnt pay off any of these loans directly. So it couldnt be sure it 
wasnt putting him in a worse position by increasing his overall indebtedness. The stated 
purpose of debt consolidation isnt enough in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly 
provided or that it proved helpful in the event to Mr V.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Mr V 
with the loan. 
The fact that Mr V repaid the loan from further borrowing doesnt mean that he was able to 
do so sustainably (AvantCredits notes show that he did struggle to keep up the repayments) 
or that this is a good enough reason for me not to uphold his complaint that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right for Mr V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman