DRN-4029732
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc increased his credit limit between September 2018 
and October 2019. He says the credit was unaffordable.
What happened
HSBC provided Mr B with a credit card account in 2016 with an initial credit limit of £7000. 
The account had three credit limit increases between September 2018 and December 2019 
with the limit increasing to £13,000.
Mr B complained that the lending was irresponsible. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said the credit limit had increased due to the opt-in service applied when the account was 
opened. HSBC said it had provided Mr B with the option to tell them that he didnt want the 
credit limit increase applied. HSBC also said that Mr B had been asked to confirm 
affordability or any changes in circumstances for the lending he obtained.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked at the credit limit increases in September 
2018 and May 2019 and said it wouldve been proportionate for HSBC to ask Mr B about his 
income and expenditure to ensure he could afford to repay the increased borrowing. The 
investigator said that in relation to the first credit limit increase the information available 
showed it was affordable for Mr B, but in relation to the second credit limit increase the 
information showed that Mr B already had significant credit commitments and wasnt likely to 
be able to repay any further borrowing. The investigator concluded that the second credit 
limit increase was irresponsible lending.
HSBC didnt agree. It said it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
increasing the credit limit and it had found the lending to be affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Im looking at the credit limit increase from £7000 to £8000 in September 
2018, the credit limit increase from £8000 to £10,500 in May 2019 and the credit limit 
increase from £10,500 to £13,000 in October 2019. 
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say HSBC had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr B could afford to repay the lending in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of the credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
HSBC has said that where a customer opts in to credit limit increases, it carried out 
creditworthiness and affordability assessments to check whether the criteria are met for a 
credit limit increase. It says it uses the information it already holds about the customer, as 
well as information obtained from the credit reference agencies.
HSBC provided details of the information it gathered before the credit limit increases. Ive 
reviewed this. At the time of the first credit limit increase, Mr B had existing unsecured debt 
of £19,712. His repayment history over the last 5 cycles indicated that he would be able to 
repay the increased borrowing in just over 16 months.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out before the first credit limit increase 
were reasonable and proportionate and that the lending decision was fair.
HSBC has said that prior to the second credit limit increase, a full income and affordability 
assessment was used to calculate an affordable credit limit offer to Mr B. Ive reviewed the 
information gathered by HSBC. At the time of the second credit limit increase, Mr Bs net 
monthly income was around £2216. HSBC used credit search data and determined that Mr 
B had existing credit commitments of £477 per month. 
The existing credit commitments meant that Mr B was using around 23% of his monthly 
income to repay existing debt, before taking into account the increase in the credit limit. I 
think this was a significant proportion of Mt Bs income and it shouldve prompted HSBC to 
carry out further checks.
Because the second credit limit increase was significant (£8000 to £10,500), and for the 
reasons Ive mentioned above, I think it wouldve been proportionate for HSBC to have 
carried out further checks to obtain a fuller picture of Mr NBs existing credit commitments 
and other monthly expenditure.
I dont think the checks carried out prior to the second credit limit increase were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements from the time of the second credit limit increase to see 
what proportionate checks wouldve shown. These show that a significant amount of Mr Bs 
income was being used to service existing debt. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr B 
could afford to sustainably repay the further credit. For this reason, I dont think HSBC acted 
responsibly when it increased the credit limit in May 2019.
Putting things right
Because I dont think HSBC shouldve increased the credit limit in May 2019, I dont think its 
fair for it to charge and interest or charges on balances exceeding £8000. That said, Mr B 
has had the benefit of the money hes spent on the account, so I think he should pay this 
back. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges applied to balances over £8000
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be returned to Mr B along with 8% simple 
interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
HSBC should also remove all adverse information recorded after September 2018 in relation 
to this account from Mr Bs credit fileIf after the rework there is still a balance exceeding £8000, HSBC should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has cleared the 
outstanding balance, HSBC should remove all adverse information recorded after 
September 2018 in relation to this account from Mr Bs credit file.
HMRC require HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. HSBC must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman