DRN-3462517
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
OCR, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
OCR responded and agreed with our investigators view of the complaint. But it didnt make 
an offer to settle the complaint in line with our established approach to redress in these types 
of cases. As OCR didnt settle the case in line with our investigators view, the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OCR is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him. I understand OCR appeared to accept this on review of our 
investigators view of the complaint. 
So, I think that OCR didnt treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what OCR did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what OCR needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for OCR to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Ive decided the redress should be calculated over a 10-year period, rather than the 7-year 
term of Mr Ms loan. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and reasonable to 
both Mr M and OCR. 
Because Mr M can expect to benefit from the solar panels (through energy savings and 
Feed-In Tariff payments) for 20 years, I think a 10-year period is reasonable when 
calculating the redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the 
appropriate balance in terms of fairness.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then OCR needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require OCR to 
restructure Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, OCR should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
OCR and OCR should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the OCR loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-fundingIm satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted OCR that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that OCR should pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman