DRN-2328411
The complaint
Mr L, at the time of the complaint trading as W, brings this complaint with the consent of the 
Official Receiver (the OR) as hes been declared bankrupt. Mr L complains that Zurich 
Insurance PLC unfairly declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had an insurance policy with Zurich which included cover for business interruption. 
When Mr Ls business closed due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to 
control the spread of Covid-19 in March 2020, Mr L made a claim to cover his losses.
Zurich declined the claim in May 2020. They said Mr Ls policy didnt cover losses caused by 
a global pandemic, and that it only covered a specified list of diseases  a list which didnt 
include Covid-19.
Mr L didnt agree. He said the policy should cover the Covid-19 pandemic as it would if the 
Bubonic Plague or Tuberculosis were current pandemics. He also explained the devastating 
financial impact he was experiencing from the closure of his business and said this is 
precisely the sort of unforeseen event he thought hed bought insurance for. He said the 
outcome of the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case litigation should mean his claim is 
paid.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said the policy covered loss caused by 
the occurrence of a notifiable disease at the business premises but that the term notifiable 
disease was defined in the policy, and the policy definition didnt include Covid-19. He said 
Mr L didnt have the sort of policy that covered all diseases notifiable by law to the relevant 
local authority and concluded that Zurich hadnt acted unfairly by declining Mr Ls claim.
Mr L didnt accept that. He said the policy doesnt make it clear cover is limited to a specified 
list of diseases. He said the policy should have had a section titled, Notifiable diseases we 
will not cover if it wasnt intended to cover all diseases deemed notifiable by law. He pointed 
out that the national government had made Covid-19 a notifiable disease early in March 
2020.
His interpretation of the policy was that the words "an outbreak of which the competent local 
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them" had been included to cover policyholders 
against any disease that might  become notifiable throughout the life of the policy.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Covid-19 
restrictions have had on Mr L, I wont be upholding his complaint. My reasons are 
substantially the same as the investigators.
I understand that Mr L closed his business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of his business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover Mr L is looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr L took out.
Mr Ls policy provided cover for loss of income resulting from damage caused by several 
insured events including fire and flood. The policy also covered loss of income resulting from 
such things as the discovery of vermin or pests at the premises or the accidental failure of 
the public supply of electricity, gas or water. But as the government-imposed lockdown was 
intended to control the Covid-19 pandemic, the most likely section of the policy that would 
respond to Mr Ls claim was cover for loss of income resulting from:
a) any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the premises
b) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
notifiable disease
The part of the policy document relating to Business Interruption began with a section titled 
Meaning of words and explained that the term Notifiable disease meant:
Illness sustained by any person resulting from:
food or drink poisoning
one of the following specified human infectious or human contagious 
diseases: Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Bubonic Plague, Anthrax, 
Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, 
Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal 
Infection, Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Rabies, 
Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Viral haemorrhagic, Whooping 
cough, Yellow fever
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them.
Having considered the policy definition of the term Notifiable disease, Im not persuaded 
this section of the policy provides Mr L with cover. This isnt because the policy didnt cover 
losses caused by a global pandemic as Zurich initially told Mr L, but because Covid-19 isnt 
one of the specified diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 isnt something Zurich are likely to have 
known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. Thats 
because I dont think Zurich intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases that might be added to a government defined regularly updated list. Zurich 
deliberately chose to define Notifiable disease by reference to a static list of specified diseases. I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its 
an exhaustive list.
There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other diseases, 
including any new diseases which might emerge. I dont agree with Mr Ls interpretation of 
the line which begins an outbreak of which ; I think its clear thats referring to an 
outbreak of one of the preceding specified diseases.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy definition of Notifiable disease. There are many potential illnesses and 
diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of 
Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
For completeness Ive also thought about whether any other insured events fit the 
circumstances here because the policy covered:
loss of income  resulting from damage caused by any of the insured events 1-13 
under this section to any of the following:
the trade contents or glass insured under this section
the buildings of the premises shown in the schedule 
property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders the use of the 
saleshop or access to it.
However, nothing in those events extends to damage caused to the business by way of a 
disease such as Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to physical 
damage in different shapes and forms.
The FCA Litigation
Mr L has said the outcome of the FCAs litigation should be interpreted in his favour. But, as 
our investigator has explained, Mr Ls policy isn't one which is impacted by the findings of 
that litigation for the reasons set out on the FCAs website; namely that the test case wasnt 
seeking to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of 
diseases which dont include Covid-19. Mr Ls policy does contain such a clause which Ive 
referred to more specifically above. So, my decision isnt impacted by the outcome of that 
litigation.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Zurich acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Ls claim for cover. I know Mr L will be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope Ive 
provided him with a thorough explanation of why his policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Official 
Receiver and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Beth WilcoxOmbudsman