DRN-2899012
The complaint
Ms G complains about the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited when she 
made a claim on her Home Emergency insurance policy.
Ms Gs dealings have been through the insurance broker who handled the claim on behalf of 
Aviva. But as Aviva is the underwriter and therefore responsible for the complaint, Ill refer to 
the actions as by Aviva below.   
What happened
An escape of water occurred at Ms Gs house. She contacted Aviva to make a claim on the 
Home Emergency cover she held with it. Aviva sent an engineer to turn the water off within 
three hours. But it had to arrange for another engineer to attend to fix the leak due to the 
suspected presence of Asbestos. Ms G was told the engineer would attend the following day 
by 6pm, but he didnt arrive until 11.30pm. 
Ms L complained to Aviva. She said this was very distressing for her and her son who 
suffers from a condition which was made worse by not having running water. He wasnt able 
to use the toilet and ended up soiling himself. Ms L said she constantly had to chase Aviva 
to find out when the engineer would arrive, and he didnt turn up by the time shed been told 
he would. She said there was a lot of damage to her property which wasnt repaired.
Aviva explained that any damage caused by the actual leak wasnt covered by her policy. 
But it offered £125 for the inconvenience caused. 
Ms G referred her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into things. She 
explained that as this was a home emergency policy, Aviva wasnt responsible for any 
damage caused by the leak, just for repairing the leak and stopping the flow of water. Ms G 
accepted this. However, our investigator thought that Aviva had repeatedly reassured Ms G 
that an engineer would be with her by 6pm, despite not contacting the engineer to confirm if 
this was a realistic promise. She also noted that Ms G was under the impression that she 
had no running water, but the first engineer had in fact noted that the downstairs toilet was 
still able to operate. She thought that, had Avivas agents read the previous notes, they 
couldve informed her that the downstairs toilet was operational. This wouldve caused much 
less distress to Ms Gs son, and in turn to Ms G. She thought Aviva should pay a total of 
£500 (including the £125 already offered) for the distress and inconvenience this matter had 
caused. 
Aviva said its agents were entitled to rely on the information that Ms G was providing, that 
the downstairs toilet wasnt working. It thought £500 was excessive compensation. Aviva did 
accept that more compensation was warranted though and offered £350. Ms G didnt accept 
this, so the complaint has been passed to me to review and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has accepted that Aviva isnt responsible for the damage caused by the leak. And the 
leak has since been fixed. So, all that is left for me to decide is how Aviva should 
compensate Ms G. 
This was clearly a stressful time for Ms G. The initial call was attended to very quickly by 
Aviva. However, due to the suspected presence of asbestos, a specialist engineer needed to 
be called. It was clear that this matter was causing Ms G a significant amount of stress given 
how many times she called to chase the engineer, and I think Aviva shouldve provided her 
with accurate updates. Ms G was repeatedly told that this engineer would arrive by 6pm the 
following day. However, they missed this deadline by five and a half hours. Had Aviva taken 
further steps to check on the availability of the engineer, they mayve been able to manage 
Ms Gs expectations better rather than making promises that werent kept.
I also note that during one of the calls, Ms G did make Aviva aware of both her sons 
condition and the fact that, as far as she was aware, the toilets werent working. It doesnt 
appear that Aviva did anything to escalate the matter at this stage, although it did following a 
later call. Had this been escalated sooner, its possible an engineer mayve arrived sooner. 
Furthermore, as our investigator said, had the call handler looked through the notes, they 
wouldve seen that the downstairs toilet was in fact working. Had they informed Ms G of this, 
it wouldve saved both her and her son much distress and upset. This also occurred during 
the coronavirus pandemic, which made making other arrangements, such as using other 
facilities, much more difficult.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think this matter has caused Ms G a significant amount 
of distress and inconvenience  both in the upset its caused her directly, and the impact its 
had on her son which wouldve clearly upset her further. Whilst payments of compensation 
are by their very nature subjective. Ive thought about this situation carefully. And Ive taken 
into account the fact that Aviva didnt escalate the matter earlier when it became aware of 
the condition Ms Gs son had, and that it didnt inform Ms G that she did have a working 
toilet. This together with the impact the delays were having on both of them means I agree 
with our investigator that £500 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Aviva should pay Ms M £500 for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused her. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman