DRN-4481984
The complaint
Mrs H complains Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) caused delays after she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
Mulsanne are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Mulsanne have accepted it is accountable for the actions 
of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Mulsanne includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
There are several parties and representatives of Mulsanne involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Mulsanne.
What happened
Mrs Hs car was hit by a third-party whilst it was parked and unattended. She made a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
Mrs H said her car was due for an MOT during the time she was waiting for her claim to 
progress. The car failed the required MOT, so she had to pay for some repairs herself to 
enable the car to pass and remain on the road.
Mrs H said Mulsanne and its authorised intermediaries did not respond emails she sent nor 
was she able to contact it by phone as the mailbox was full and her calls were automatically 
ended.
Mrs H said her claim was delayed and she was not kept informed of any progress on it. 
She  made a complaint to Mulsanne. It didnt respond to her complaint and her claim was 
still not progressed.
As Mrs H was not happy with Mulsanne, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said there was 
evidence of Mrs H constantly contacting Mulsanne for an update on her claim without any 
reply. They said there was evidence of poor claims handling which wouldve been frustrating 
for her so she should be compensated £550 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
during this time and because her claim remained open affecting her insurance premiums.
As Mulsanne did not respond to our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs claim was for damage to her car from a driver that failed to stop. I saw she did 
obtain the details of the car and its registration number. And provided images of the damage 
to her car.
I saw that after the incident Mrs H continued to drive her car. It was damaged but still 
driveable.
I saw evidence of numerous attempts by Mrs H to contact Mulsanne to progress the claim 
both by email and phone. I saw that Mulsannes authorised representatives did acknowledge 
her claim and also her complaint but despite this I did not see any evidence of progression of 
her claim.
I can accept as the incident happened whilst Mrs Hs car was parked and unattended that 
Mulsanne may not be able to progress with her claim on a non-fault basis without admission 
of liability from the third-party. However it should have still progressed with her claim and 
kept her updated with progress. I saw no evidence of any investigations being made into her 
claim.
I saw Mrs H informed Mulsanne that the MOT on the damaged car was due to take place 
whilst she continued to try and progress her claim. As she did not receive any response or 
guidance before the due MOT date, I do not think she had any other option than to take the 
damaged car for the MOT test and then pay for the repairs needed for the car to pass its 
MOT. This included work related to the incident she had made a claim for. 
It is Mulsannes responsibility to deal with claims on Mrs Hs policy even if they have third 
parties working on their behalf, as in this case. I saw that Mulsanne did not take any 
responsibility or accountability in progressing her claim from the date she reported the 
incident in April 2023 for more than two months at which point she made a complaint.
I saw evidence Mrs Hs complaint was acknowledged after it was submitted but she did not 
get a response to it. Neither is there any evidence of Mulsanne progressing the claim after 
the complaint was made.
Mrs H therefore brought her complaint to our service.
I therefore uphold Mrs Hs complaint and require Mulsanne to pay £550 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her because of its poor claims handling and continued delays with 
her claim. It should also now consider her claim under the terms of her motor insurance 
policy if not already done .
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs H £550 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her because of its poor claims handling and continued delays with 
her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman