DRN-3986520
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc harassed him for payments for his credit card 
despite agreeing a Debt Consolidation Loan. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with HSBC that fell into arrears. In June 2021 Mr B spoke with HSBC 
about the arrears and it agreed a Debt Consolidation Loan (DCL) to repay the outstanding 
balance of the credit card. The DCL required Mr B to make qualifying payments for two 
months before it was put in place. Mr B went on to make the qualifying payments in July and 
August 2021. 
Despite making the qualifying payments, HSBC didnt make arrangements to put the DCL in 
place. Mr B continued to receive arrears correspondence and contact from HSBC. In the 
months that followed, Mr B made payments on time but continued to receive contact from 
HSBC. When Mr B spoke with HSBC he advised the DCL paperwork hadnt been received. 
Mr B complained to HSBC and it issued a final response on 22 December 2021. HSBC 
confirmed Mr B had made six qualifying payments. HSBC said its Financial Support Team 
would contact Mr B to arrange a new DCL that took the repayments hed made since the 
summer into account. HSBC paid Mr B £100 to apologise and said it would remove any 
adverse information from his credit file following the second qualifying payment made. But 
HSBC continued to report arrears on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the credit card. 
Mr B complained again following delays in setting up the DCL after he spoke with the 
Financial Support Team. On 28 February 2021 HSBC issued another final response. HSBC 
said the new DCL had now been set up and that there was a credit of £131.53 on account. 
HSBC arranged a refund of the overpayment. HSBC also said it would ensure all adverse 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from September 2021 would be removed and paid 
him a further £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The DCL was set up, but Mr Bs provided evidence from his credit file that HSBC continued 
to record adverse information. Mr B referred his case to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and said HSBC had failed to amend 
his credit file as promised. The investigator also thought HSBC had caused an unreasonable 
level of distress and inconvenience in terms of the level and nature of its contact with Mr B 
over a sustained period. The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked HSBC to pay 
him a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. The investigator also said 
HSBC should take steps to amend Mr Bs credit file. 
Our investigator recently confirmed the amount of compensation awarded. We didnt get a 
response from HSBC accepting their recommendations, so Mr Bs complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for Mr Bs case. I can see his credit card was in arrears and that HSBC 
approved a DCL that shouldve come into effect in September 2021. Mr Bs told us the 
paperwork wasnt received and that he continued to maintain payments to his credit card as 
agreed. I can also see Mr B was in regular contact with HSBC after receiving arrears 
correspondence. And I can see adverse information has been recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
over a sustained period, despite HSBCs agreement it would be deleted. 
Mr Bs explained that the level and nature of HSBCs contact has caused him a lot of 
frustration and upset. Im satisfied Mr B made payments as agreed and was willing to work 
with HSBC to put the DCL in place and clear his balance. I agree with Mr B that receiving the 
arrears letters and contact caused an unnecessary level of distress and inconvenience that 
went on for a long time. Im satisfied the issues raised have caused Mr B a significant level 
of trouble and upset. 
We asked HSBC about the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file. Its told us no adverse 
information is currently being reported from September 2021 onwards. But HSBCs 
confirmed an arrangement marker has been included on Mr Bs credit file up to January 
2022. Im not persuaded thats fair. Whilst Mr B was in an arrangement at the time, it was on 
the basis that his DCL would be put in place from September 2021. I havent seen 
persuasive evidence that shows Mr B was the reason for the delay in putting the DCL in 
place. So Im not persuaded its fair for HSBC to record information about an ongoing 
arrangement beyond September 2021. I agree with the investigator that HSBC should 
amend Mr Bs credit file accordingly. 
HSBCs paid Mr B £175 when responding to his complaint. I agree with the investigator that 
the compensation offered doesnt reflect how the issues raised impacted Mr B. In my view, a 
further payment of £300, taking the total award to £475, is a fairer reflection of the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis 
and uphold Mr Bs complaint
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Ensure no adverse information (including the payment arrangement) is recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file in relation to the credit card form September 2021 onwards
- Pay Mr B a further £300 (taking the total award to £475) for the distress and 
inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman