DRN-2633356
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited wouldnt contribute towards 
their replacement boiler under their home emergency insurance policy, as it said it was 
beyond economical repair.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs L found their boiler was leaking they contacted Alwyn and an engineer 
attended. The engineer reported that the boiler was beyond economical repair and so no 
assistance could be given. Because of this, Mr and Mrs L say they had to replace the boiler 
at their own cost and were tied to the house for 14 days to regularly empty the container 
placed under the boiler to catch the leaking water. They disputed the engineers comments 
about the boiler.
Alwyn say the boiler is about eight years old and its current value considering depreciation is 
£430. The replacement cost is approximately £1,000-£1,200 for a like-for-like model. As the 
engineer confirmed the repair costs would exceed the amount it would spend on the boiler, 
taking into account its value, Alwyn said it was beyond economical repair. It said the £1,000 
limit under the policy was an overall limit across all sections of the policy and subject to other 
terms and exclusions. Alwyn said the engineer accessed the boiler and was able to identify 
the issue. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought there was more evidence in 
support of the engineers assessment and the policy terms had been followed correctly.
Mr and Mrs L disagree. They say more consideration has been given to Alwyns version of 
events than theirs simply because the engineer is a qualified professional  and pointed out 
that they werent asked to sign the report before the engineer had left. They felt this had 
gone against an accepted practice and meant they couldnt challenge the engineers 
assessment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy covers them for an emergency which occurs as a result of the 
complete failure to function or a breakdown of the main source of heating in their home. 
Should this happen, the policy will cover them for the emergency repairs required.
However, there are exclusions which apply to this. In particular The cost of, or contribution 
towards, replacing the main source of heating if it is beyond economic repair is not 
covered. Beyond economic repair is defined as meaning where the cost of repairing the 
boiler (including labour and parts) is more than its value, taking into account its age, make 
and model.
Ive also kept in mind that insurers are required to handle claims promptly and fairly  and 
mustnt unreasonably reject them.
Alwyns appointed engineer inspected the boiler and said it was beyond economic repair, as 
the repair costs would be more than the current value of the boiler. The crux of the complaint 
here is whether the engineers diagnosis was correct. 
Theres a dispute as to the depth of his investigation. Mr and Mrs L say he didnt remove the 
side panel of the boiler, but Alwyn say the engineer diagnosed the issue after looking inside 
the boiler and was 100% certain of the issue. I cant be sure what happened but I dont 
need to make a finding on whether the engineer removed the side panel or said what he was 
alleged to say. 
The engineer says that the boiler needed a new heat exchanger. I know how strongly Mr and 
Mrs L feel about this, but Alwyn made its decision based on the engineers report. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs L say they werent asked to sign anything when the engineer left. 
Whilst that might be good practice, I dont think theres a requirement for this to happen. And 
I dont think this left them with no way of disputing this further. If they didnt agree with the 
engineers diagnosis, Mr and Mrs L could have asked an independent engineer to attend 
and diagnose the fault. If their conclusion was different, I would expect Alwyn to consider this 
further. But this didnt happen. So on the one hand there is an experts evidence that the 
boiler was beyond economic repair and on the other Mr and Mrs Ls testimony disputing that. 
In these circumstances I think it was fair for Alwin to rely on the evidence it had in concluding 
the boiler was beyond economical repair. And Im satisfied that the cost of the new boiler 
isnt covered under the policy. Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs L had to pay for a new boiler 
and suffered inconvenience over the two weeks prior to its installation. But for the reasons 
given Im satisfied Alwyns decision was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman