DRN-1671275
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mr W took out the policy over the phone in October 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based my decision on the evidence that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
Although AXA doesnt have any documentation from the time, it does have some system 
records that show basic information about the start and end dates of the card and the start 
date and sales method of the PPI.
AXA has provided evidence that Mr W opened his store card account in 1994. He didnt take 
out the PPI until 1996, when he was sold it over the phone. As Mr W had already had the 
card for some time, he cant have thought that the PPI was a condition of having the credit. 
Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr W would have known that he had a 
choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he 
didnt have to.
I dont know if AXA advised Mr W to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision. If it did advise him to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mr Ws needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mr W says his employer would have given him some sick pay. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for. 
Mr W has told us that he had savings at the time. But having the policy would have meant 
that he could have retained any savings or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider he had a need for the policy and could have 
benefited from it if hed been unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
I consider that Mr W would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
card repayments if he was unable to work  because I dont think hed have decided to take 
it out without knowing anything at all about it. Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much 
information as it should have about the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt 
cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of those things. Because I think he had an interest in 
the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have caused him to 
change his mind. So he isnt any worse off as a result of anything AXA may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman