DRN-3280886
The complaint
Miss B complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly increased her credit card account limit to 
unaffordable levels.
What happened
Miss B says she asked MBNA for payment breaks which were approved but when they 
ended, she was paying nearly double her previous amount. She says MBNA hasnt offered a 
solution such as converting her debt into a loan and would like it to freeze any interest. Miss 
B says the credit limit was increased on two occasions which was irresponsible, and the 
amounts were unaffordable.
MBNA says the account was opened in 2017 with a credit limit of £5,600. It says the credit 
limit was increased in June 2018 to £7,500 and Miss B applied to increase the limit in 
January 2019 to £10,000 which it approved. MBNA says it refused a further application from 
Miss B in July 2019. It says it did carry out appropriate checks on the increases and took into 
account Miss Bs account management and lack of adverse information on her credit file.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Miss B had used the account for a balance transfer, only made 
minimum payments and used most of her credit limit. She thought in those circumstances 
further checks ought to have been carried out. The investigator recommended interest and 
charges be refunded over and above the initial credit limit but thought MBNA wasnt obliged 
to agree a loan and acted positively and sympathetically to Miss Bs position.
Miss B accepts that view, but MBNA doesnt. It says Miss Bs other debt levels were low and 
she took advantage of the zero-interest rate. It also says Miss B was entitled to make close 
to minimum payments.
I asked Miss B for copies of her account statements from the time of the credit limit 
increases which she has provided. She has also provided her credit file which has a score at 
the time of production of 842 out of 1000.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.
I came to the provisional view that MBNAs lending was not irresponsible or unaffordable. 
And that it was difficult to see what further checks it could reasonably have carried out or 
what those further checks would have shown which would have led it to conclude the 
increases were inappropriate and unaffordable.
I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of that lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than 
for example a mortgage and so I said I wouldnt have expected MBNAs checks to have 
been as detailed as for that type of lending. But of course, checks must be still be carried out 
to ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable.
 I said there was no complaint here from Miss B about the original lending and so I didnt 
comment on the opening of the account in 2017. I could see that Miss B took advantage of 
the promotional interest rate which appears to have expired in December 2020. 
I looked at MBNAs records and saw that it did carry out checks on both credit limit 
increases. I could see that it considered Miss Bs credit file, her account management and 
her other debt. I also looked at Miss Bs credit file, account statements and at her bank 
statements from one of her accounts. I could see that Miss B didnt have any adverse 
information on her credit file such as defaults, arrears or late payments. I was also satisfied 
that Miss B made her required payments to MBNA and that she was in receipt of a regular 
income. And that she appeared to have additional income payments into her bank account 
which may have been from a separate business that Miss B appears to have been running.  
I said no doubt Miss B can provide further information about that before my final decision.
So, I said I was satisfied that MBNA did carry out checks on both increases and that the 
checks were proportionate and reasonable. I was also satisfied that if MBNA had carried out 
further checks as the investigator suggested then that is likely to have included a closer 
examination of Miss Bs finances and bank statements. I looked at Miss Bs bank account 
statements in detail and couldnt see any obvious signs of financial difficulties or any 
information on them that would have led MBNA to conclude the credit limit increases were 
unaffordable.
I saw that Miss B manged her other credit and mortgage accounts appropriately and has 
what I think is a good credit score. I couldnt see what else MBNA could have investigated 
that would have led it to conclude there were possible financial difficulties. I accepted Miss B 
had used most of her credit limit before the increases and appeared to make balance 
transfers. But I thought that even if further checks were carried out then those would not 
have resulted in a different lending decision here.
I didnt think it clear why Miss B says she was in such financial difficulties and said no doubt 
she can provide further information on this point as well as provide her other bank account 
statements and details of additional household income.
I agreed with the investigator that MBNA was entitled to charge interest in line with agreed 
account terms and conditions and has offered to help Miss B. I said it is not our role to tell 
MBNA that it must agree to a loan as Miss B would like. 
Overall, my provisional decision was that MBNA did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on the credit limits. I found in any event that even if it did carry out further checks, 
then it difficult to see what they would have revealed about Miss Bs finances. I said I would 
consider any further information Miss B would like to provide about why she says she was in 
financial difficulties as well as the bank statements and other household income or the 
business she may have been running. I also hoped MBNA would provide details of the 
information Miss B gave it when the account was opened. I couldnt see why MBNA would 
not have retained that information and confirmed it was not included the information it has 
given us.
MBNA has re-submitted its file to us but the information I hoped it would have provided is still 
not included.
Miss B has responded to my provisional decision and says she was not running a business 
and has explained what the credits into her account were. She says the financial difficulties were caused by her partners gambling problems and that she helped his debt issues. Miss B 
maintains that she shouldnt have been given the credit limit increases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at this complaint and considered carefully the additional points Miss B 
has made. I am sorry to read of the issues caused by the gambling and appreciate that she 
has clarified the additional credits into her account.
I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional decision and for 
largely the same reasons. Im satisfied that on the face of it the credit limits were affordable 
taking into account the lack of adverse information on Miss Bs credit file, her income and 
general financial position. I also think that even if MBNA carried out further checks it unlikely 
that they would have resulted in any change to the lending decision for the reasons I have 
set out. Overall, I think it likely that the financial problems were caused by Miss Bs partners 
gambling which MBNA would have been unaware of and would have been unlikely to have 
known about even if further checks were carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman