DRN-3577057
The complaint
Mr A complains IGO4 Ltd trading as WiseDriving (WiseDriving) didnt provide him with a full 
refund following cancellation of his insurance policy. Mr A was also unhappy the terms and 
conditions of the policy did not stipulate 14 calendar days were required in order to cancel 
the policy. 
What happened
Mr A purchased car insurance with WiseDriving through an online price comparison website. 
As part of the application process he was asked a series of questions including  How many 
years no claims bonus (NCB) do you have? Mr A stated his NCB was one year. He says he 
didnt understand what NCB was and thought it was in relation to how many years he had 
been driving. 
WiseDriving asked Mr A to provide it with a copy of his evidence of NCB. Mr A told 
WiseDriving he didnt have it due to the misunderstanding. Mr A says he cancelled the policy 
once WiseDriving clarified the premium would increase in the absence of any NCB. And that 
he was unable to cancel it before this date as he wasnt aware of the increased premium 
until 11 November 2021. 
WiseDriving told Mr A he would be charged £75 cancellation fee, £150 non-refundable 
telematics cost, and £49.99 for the optional breakdown cover he purchased since the policy 
wasnt cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period. Mr A wasnt happy with this so 
complained to WiseDriving. WiseDriving agreed to waive the cancellation fee and the 
telematics fee when it cancelled the policy. 
Mr A remained dissatisfied. He said the 14-day cooling off period didnt make it clear it 
meant 14 calendar days. Mr A said this was a breach of the Consumer Rights Act. 
WiseDriving looked into the concerns raised by Mr A. WiseDriving said prior to purchase of 
the policy Mr A confirmed he had read and accepted the terms and conditions. Mr A had 
initially told WiseDriving he had one years NCB. When Mr A made it aware he didnt have 
any NCB WiseDriving told him his premium would increase. Mr A wasnt happy his premium 
would increase and so asked to cancel the policy. WiseDriving agreed to waive the usual 
£75 cancellation fee and the £150 telematics fee. The policy was cancelled and a refund 
was processed. WiseDriving said because Mr A had cancelled the policy after 14 days he 
would be charged the cost of insurance cover and any optional extras in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the response from WiseDriving. Mr A wants WiseDriving to refund 
the cost to him of the roadside assistance option, which cost £49.99.  So he referred his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said it was fair for 
WiseDriving to deduct the cost of the insurance for the period Mr A held it, and not to refund 
the cost of the breakdown option as it was explained in the terms and conditions that Mr A 
accepted. 
Mr A didnt agree and thinks its unfair WiseDriving didnt specify the 14-day cooling off 
period meant 14 calendar days rather than working days. Because he didnt agree the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A is unhappy WiseDriving havent returned the cost of the breakdown 
cover. Ive no doubt Mr A provided WiseDriving with the information it required in order to 
obtain motor insurance and acted in good faith when completing the online form on the price 
comparison website. I can understand why he thought the NCB wouldnt impact the price of 
the premium, and that he initially misunderstood the question. And so when the premium 
increased I think this would have shocked him. 
But its not for me to decide what is a reasonable cost for the insurance, and what risk factors 
the insurer should take into consideration. It is important to explain my role here is to look at 
whether WiseDriving acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the terms and 
conditions of the policy in its dealings with Mr A. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on a specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that once the insurer has started to bear risk  
for however short a period  the premium paid is not returnable.  That means it not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. 
I have looked at what the policy says. The relevant policy terms and conditions say, you 
have the statutory right to cancel your policy within 14 days from the day of the purchase or 
renewal.  Under the heading Cancelling your policy the policy separates what will happen if 
the policy is cancelled during the cooling off period, and what will happen if its cancelled 
after the cooling off period. The policy says, you may cancel this policy after the 14 days 
cooling off period but where this happens a proportionate refund of any premium paid, less 
agreed charges detailed in the WiseDriving terms and conditions will be allowed. It goes on 
to say, no refund is available for additional products you may have purchased alongside this 
policy when the policy is cancelled after the cooling off period. And so Im satisfied 
WiseDriving acted within the terms and conditions of the policy.  
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for WiseDriving to offer a full refund to Mr A. 
When WiseDriving wrote to Mr A on 6 November 2021 it asked for a copy of Mr As proof of 
no claims. The email says, if we dont receive your no-claims discount proof, well have to 
remove the no-claims discount from your policy. This may lead to your policy being 
cancelled or additional charges being made. Mr A wrote to WiseDriving the following day 
explaining he didnt have any no claims discount and asked what impact that might have on 
the cost of the premium. Mr A explained the wording of the question regarding no claims 
discount on the price comparison website suggested there wouldnt be any impact on price 
between 0 NCB and 1 year. WiseDriving told Mr A there may be a change in premium and 
asked him to contact them to obtain a new quote. 
Ive considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint including 
what Mr A has said about his confusion over the meaning of NCB. In the circumstances I 
think the insurer has acted fairly because Mr A had the benefit of cover during the time the policy was in place. WiseDriving has refunded Mr A for the period of unused cover and I 
think thats fair. 
Consumer Rights Act 2015
Mr A has referenced the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) where terms are unclear, the terms 
that benefit the customer should prevail. And Mr A argues the insurer usually referred to 
working days but when it came to the cancellation the insurer meant 14 calendar days but 
didnt state it, and so the terms were unclear. I have reviewed the CRA and taken it into 
consideration. But I dont agree.
Under the Act the contract can be assessed for fairness unless they are both prominent 
(presented in a way that an average consumer would be aware of the term) and transparent 
(in plain and intelligible language) way. And I think thats the case here. 
The terms may be deemed unfair if they are contrary to the requirement of good faith or they 
cause a significant imbalance between the rights of the trader and the consumer. But I dont 
think that applies here. 
When looking at the term 14 days I have applied ordinary everyday language. In doing so I 
consider the meaning of day to be a period of 24 hours. And so Im satisfied 14 days means 
14 calendar days. 
Ive considered what Mr A has told us about the circumstances of obtaining the quote. And I 
accept what hes said about what he believed NCB was and how he didnt think it affected 
the overall cost of the policy. However I dont think there are any grounds on which I can 
fairly and reasonably ask WiseDriving to refund the premium paid for the period of cover or 
the cost of the breakdown cover, since he had the benefit of cover during the time the policy 
was active. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A. And I want to assure him I have 
considered everything hes told us. But WiseDriving have acted within the terms of the policy 
and I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman