DRN-2795692
The complaint
Mr M complains that Soteria Insurance Limited has rejected his home insurance claim for 
lost money and has voided his policy (cancelled it back to its start).
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M took out a policy with Soteria through a price comparison website. He 
made a small claim in July 2020 which was paid. Then in August 2020 Mr M contacted 
Soteria to make a claim for £370 lost cash when he was moving home. Mr M was asked to 
provide the crime reference number from the police, but he advised he was told the police 
didnt regard lost property as a crime. Mr M was also asked to provide a withdrawal slip to 
confirm the withdrawal of the cash. However on reviewing his claim Soteria discovered three 
previous claims had been made on a former policy relating to loss of money. Mr M hadnt 
declared these when he took out the policy in June 2020. He explained that this was 
because he had had difficulties in a relationship with his ex-partner which had involved court 
proceedings. She had made the claims and he didnt know about them. 
Soteria explained that it had to check that information with his previous insurer. Despite 
making a request for that information in September 2020, it wasnt until March 2021 that 
Soteria finally received it. This showed that Mr M himself had made a claim for lost money in 
September 2016 and that his ex-partner had made a claim, also for lost money in May 2017. 
The record showed that Mr M himself had called to make a complaint about that claim. So 
Soteria said that Mr M was aware of at least two claims in the five years prior to taking out 
the policy. As it wouldnt have offered him a policy had it known about those claims, it 
rejected Mr Ms claim and voided the policy back to the start. It deemed Mr Ms failure to 
disclose those claims to have been reckless or deliberate and said it was retaining the 
premiums. However Mr M reclaimed them from his bank.
Mr M said due to his circumstances at the time he couldnt have been expected to remember 
claims several years old. He also said hed only been asked about claims up to three years 
old.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Soteria had acted reasonably. 
Mr M didnt agree in particular pointing out the seven month timescale for Soteria to come to 
a decision. The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator advised, when applying for insurance the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. This says its the duty of the 
consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. In this 
case Soteria says that Mr M made a misrepresentation about the number of claims he had 
had in the previous five years. 
In this case Soteria says that in applying for the policy Mr M was asked about any home 
insurance claims in the previous five years and Mr M answered that he had had none. In fact 
he had had three claims made on a joint policy, all of which were for lost cash. Whilst he 
could reasonably say he was unaware of one such claim, his record with his previous insurer 
shows that he had personally made a claim for lost cash in 2016 and had followed up on his 
ex-partners similar claim in 2017.
I understand Mr M applied for the policy through a price comparison website, and the policy 
was issued without his having to contact Soteria or the broker. And although he believes he 
was only asked about claims in the previous three years, Ive checked the website and it 
clearly asks about claims in the previous five years.
So I think it reasonable to say that Mr M made a misrepresentation when he said he had had 
no claims in the previous five years. Ive noted what hes said about his circumstances at the 
time but given the fact that the past claims and the claim he was making were all for lost 
money, I cant reasonably say he wasnt careless when he answered the question when 
applying for the policy.
As Mr M had made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, Soteria could apply the 
remedy available to it under the Act. And its shown that it wouldnt have issued a policy had 
it known about the claims, as set out in its underwriting guidelines. In these circumstances it 
was entitled to reject the claim and void the policy. It has deemed the misrepresentation to 
be reckless or deliberate which means it doesnt have to return Mr Ms premiums. I think 
Soteria acted reasonably in the decision it made. And I note that Mr M has nevertheless 
obtained a refund of his premiums through his bank.
Mr M has made the point that he had already made a claim in July 2020 which was paid. 
Soteria says it made checks on Mr Ms then address and paid the claim. However when it 
received the claim in August 2020 it made more detailed checks including on previous 
addresses. Its up to the insurer what checks it makes and if it decides to pay a claim it 
doesnt mean it cant make more detailed checks if another claim is made. Indeed Soteria 
would have been alerted to this given the fact this was the second claim made within two 
months of the policy being taken out. 
As for the delay in making a decision, I appreciate that this was frustrating for Mr M. I think 
Soteria acted reasonably in asking him for information about the claim before checking the 
records. However the delay after that appears to be solely due to Mr Ms previous insurers 
being so slow in responding to Soterias request for information. I note that it chased the 
information up several times. And I think it was reasonable to ask for the information, given 
Mr Ms insistence that he didnt know about the claims that were made by his ex-partner.
So overall I think Soteria acted fairly in assessing Mr Ms claim and in coming to the decision 
it did about the claim and the policy.
My final decision 
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman