DRN-2828852
The complaint
Mr T complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.   
What happened
In November 2018 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The contract ended in November 2020.
The car was collected and inspected in December 2020. MBFS sent an invoice for damage 
charges and excess days.
Mr T disputed the charges and complained to MBFS. MBFs removed a charge for a 
damaged door but said the rest of the damage was chargeable, which included a front 
bumper and 4 new tyres.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
During the investigation of the complaint by this service, MBFS acknowledged that the car 
hadnt been supplied with run flat tyres and said it would no longer be charging Mr T for 4 
new tyres.
Our investigator said MBFs had made an error by charging for the tyres and that the charges 
should be removed. He didnt think MBFS had acted unfairly in relation to the bumper and 
the additional days hire.
Mr T didnt agree. He said the bumper didnt need replacing and that it could be repaired at 
lesser cost.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS has already agreed to remove the charges for the tyres, I wont be focussing 
on this aspect. Instead, Ill look at the damage to the bumper and the additional days hire 
charges.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This contains some images of the damaged bumper 
taken from different angles. Mr T doesnt despite that the bumper is damaged, but he feels it 
could be rectified by repairs rather than replacement. The difference in cost between repair 
and replacement is significant.
Im not in a position to disagree with the quote for repair that Mr T has obtained from a local 
garage. However, my assessment of the bumper, having looked carefully at the images, is 
that the damage is extensive and on balance I cant say that MBFS has acted unreasonably 
in requiring the bumper to be replaced. So, I wont be asking MBFS to remove the charges 
for the bumper.
Ive looked at the contact notes between Mr T and MBFSs collection agent in the run up to 
the contract end date. Many of the calls made to Mr T werent answered and messages were 
left. In the one call that was successfully placed on 2 November 2020, the agent agreed to 
call back week commencing 16 November 2020 to arrange collection. Instead, the agent 
called back on 6 November 2020 and left a message asking Mr T to call back.
Ive taken account of Mr Ts explanation for why he didnt call back. He says he didnt think it 
was necessary to respond because hed already spoken to the agent and agreed to speak 
again the following week. Im not persuaded by this explanation though, because when there 
was no call from the agent the following week, I cant see that Mr T made any attempts to 
contact the agent to arrange collection, even though he knew the contract end date was fast 
approaching.
From what I can see, Mr T was in possession of the car and using it right up until the day it 
was recovered. So, I think its fair that he should pay for the additional time he used the car. I 
wont be asking MBFS to remove the additional days hire charges.   
Putting things right
 As MBFS has confirmed that the car wasnt supplied with run flat tyres, the charges for the 
tyres should be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services 
Limited must remove the charges for the tyres.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman