DRN-4480878
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs handling of her requests for it to send her cheque 
books and her bank account statements.
What happened
Ms M made repeated and more urgent requests to Santander to send her a cheque book so 
she could pay her bills. Ms M also asked for statements so she could check how much 
money she had in her account. Ms M wanted to service her account this way and she felt 
that as the cheque books and statements werent arriving at her home address Santander 
was lying. Ms M was clear that this is her money, and she wants to pay her bills and check 
on her money in a way that suits her. Ms M doesnt want to use the processes that she feels 
Santander are forcing on her around bill payments and online banking.
Ms M was getting letters from her utility provider stating that she would be cut off unless her 
bill was paid. As Ms M wasnt getting the cheque book or statements arriving at her address 
to allow her to pay her bills she complained to this service.
Once the complaint was with this service Santander arranged to send Ms M a cheque book 
and statements by recorded delivery. These were received.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence from Santander showed 
it had sent cheque books and statements when requested. She said it would be unfair to 
hold the bank to account for postal problems once the items had been sent. Our investigator 
accepted that Santander had suggested to Ms M alternative ways to access her account 
details and pay bills. She noted that Santander had offered to pay Ms M a goodwill amount 
of £100 as compensation. Our investigator felt this was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M felt that Santander were telling lies and not actually sending her cheque books and 
statements when she requested them. Ms M said she didnt get any delayed post, she felt 
that instead Santander had delayed posting it. Santander said its system did send out 
cheque books when requested.
In Santanders final response letter, it said there was too many cheque requests 
outstanding on your account. I understand you didnt receive the cheque books, so I cleared 
all requests off for you and reordered your cheque book again on the 27/07/2023. The letter 
goes on to note that when Santander checked with Ms M this cheque book and statements 
that were ordered from our back office team didnt turn up either. It accepted that this was 
very stressful for Ms M.
Santander realised this was a complex case. Ms M had checked and been told that there 
was no problem with her local post. She had also been into the head post office to check this 
too and was again told there were no issues or delays. In view of the problems Santander 
did offer £100 goodwill payment which it said Ms M accepted.
Ms M told this service the problems had been going on since May 2022. She said four 
different Santander staff had during phone calls confirmed the cheque books would be 
ordered and sent out. After this didnt happen Ms M said Santander started to blame the 
postal system. Ms M checked at her end and her post office confirmed there were no delays. 
She went further than that too and said no post was ever returned from her house and said 
her postman confirmed this.
This is linked to Ms M referring to an email from Santander asking her to confirm her 
address as some post it had sent to her had been returned to sender. When Ms M asked for 
a copy of the post Santander said that wasnt possible and when asked to explain by this 
service it said anything returned is destroyed as part of their normal process. I dont think 
thats unreasonable from a data and security point of view for Santander to destroy such 
returned items, but I accept Ms M would have found this very frustrating.
Santander mentioned to this service a returned mail indicator alert on the account that was 
removed. It explained this meant post had been returned as no longer at this address and 
when this happens a block is put on correspondence. But Santander confirmed The 
address has now been updated and the block removed.
Ms M confirmed to this service that she did get mail to her home from Santander and 
referred to a letter addressing her complaint on 27 June 2023. Ms M noted that letters from 
Santander asking her to use the online system also got to her home address. But she feels 
this is because Santander was pushing her to go online rather than letting her have the 
cheque book and statements by post as she prefers.
Ms M said the cost in telephone calls and time has been expensive on top of stressful for 
her.
Santander cant due to the specific circumstances in this case send the cheque books and 
statements to a local branch to deal with as there simply isnt a local branch, so some of the 
usual ways to resolve these types of complaint dont seem to be available.
Its accepted that it took several attempts to get a cheque book to Ms M. Ms M was clear that 
the delay caused her great difficulty in accessing her money and paying her bills. Our 
investigator questioned Santander why it took so long for it to try further action and send a 
cheque book by recorded delivery rather than just continuing to order further cheque books 
that never arrived. Santander said it isnt part of their process to send any type of 
correspondence by recorded delivery. It said on this one occasion it did it to support Ms M. 
But it also said the process involved multiple colleagues across the business and isnt easy 
to facilitate. Santander maintained there are alternative ways to make payments including its 
telephone banking service where bill payments can be made.
Our investigator asked if Santander could add details to its system to try alternatives to avoid 
any potential inconvenience in the future. But Santander said this isnt possible. It noted 
Ms M did get some correspondence aside from the recorded delivery, so its convinced the 
issue isnt anything to do with Santander but is with the postal service.
I do think Santander could have acted quicker after the first couple of cheque books and 
statements hadnt arrived. But it does appear that Santander has consistently followed the 
same process and hasnt found any system failings showing that anything stopped the 
cheque books and statements from being sent out to Ms M. So, unfortunately for Ms M despite the assurances she has received from her postal service it does seem that the issue 
is outside of Santanders control.
I do understand Ms Ms wish to do her banking in a very specific way and as she points out it 
is her money. So, she is perfectly entitled to do things in the way she wants to and use the 
processes she does. I think if theres an issue again in the future, Id expect Santander to 
come up with a suitable resolution much more quickly than it did this time. If that means 
offering the recorded delivery option again regardless of how much work that might create 
for Santander, I think it should consider this if an initial new cheque book doesnt arrive with 
Ms M.
In terms of distress and inconvenience theres no doubt Ms M has felt stress and been upset 
by the time taken to get things put right. Santander said it didnt make any errors and it acted 
in a timely manner throughout. It insists the issue is outside of its control and the problem is 
with the postal service. Santander feels it has gone out of its way to support Ms M. It felt with 
the £100 goodwill offer it had acted fairly and reasonably. Although I do understand Ms M 
feels very upset and found the whole situation extremely frustrating and stressful, I dont 
think the evidence is there to suggest Santander did anything wrong. It could have acted 
quicker, but I think the £100 offer for that is reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman