DRN-2088771
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her and her late husband a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. She brings this complaint on her own behalf, and on 
behalf of the estate of Mr K.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was taken out to cover Mr 
and Mrs Ks mortgage and provided them with cover for unemployment. The policy was 
taken out in joint names and the benefit was split equally between them.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs K didnt agree, 
saying she never took PPI out, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The events complained about took place more than 15 years ago and Santander doesnt 
have a full record of the sale. In the circumstances, this isnt surprising. In cases like these, 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs K has been very clear that she didnt know shed taken out PPI and that this isnt 
something that she would have agreed to. Ive considered what shes said very carefully. But 
I have to take into account that this all happened many years ago and I wouldnt expect 
Mrs K to remember in any detail what was discussed at the meeting, what may have been 
recommended and what her and Mr K decided to do. Whilst I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed during the meeting, there must have been some discussion about PPI. I say this 
because a decision was made to take the cover for unemployment only and for the cover to 
be split equally between them. The PPI didnt form part of the mortgage application 
paperwork  Mr and Mrs K would have had to complete a separate application form. Taking 
all this into consideration, I think that, overall, Santander made Mr and Mrs K aware that the 
PPI was optional and that they chose to take it.
The bank advised Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr and Mrs K were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
They chose to take cover for unemployment only. Mrs K cant remember what 
payment her husband would have received from his employer if he was made 
redundant. She recalls she would have received three to six months pay from hers. 
And they may have had some savings. The mortgage was a significant long term 
financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ks home was at risk if they didnt keep up with 
the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim for unemployment. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, 
in addition to their existing arrangements. 
Mr and Mrs K werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits such as those affecting self-employed people. As they could have benefitted 
from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely they needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs 
K before they agreed to purchase it. They may not have been told it would cost 
£24.50 each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have 
considered whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and 
Mrs Ks decision to purchase the policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, 
knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs K would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman