DRN-3514914
The complaint
Mr P complains that his broker, Aon UK Limited (Aon), mis-sold him a commercial insurance 
policy for his office building.
What happened
Mr P bought his office building and continued to use the same broker to arrange commercial 
insurance for the building for the next 10 years. He was paying around £2,500 each year for 
the cover. In 2020, the policy renewal price was around £600 for the same level of cover. Mr 
P complained to Aon that it mustnt have sold him the best priced policy available for the 
previous 10 years and he asked for a refund of the price difference.
Aon looked into his complaint. After initially deciding it hadnt done anything wrong, Aon 
noted that the base premium was higher for the policy it sold from 2015 onwards. Aon 
offered to provide a refund of the difference in base price along with 8% simple interest (the 
total rounded up to £3,000) and £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr P didnt accept the offer in full settlement of his complaint because he believed hed 
overpaid since 2009. He calculated the refund due to him at a little over £31,000 including 
interest. Aon maintained its offer, so Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said Aon wasn't responsible for setting 
the price, so it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr P didnt agree because he thought Aon had a duty to offer him the best-priced policy. 
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Mr P confirmed that he agrees with the facts set out in Aons final response letter, and he 
doesnt complain that Aon sold him a policy he didnt need. His issue of complaint is that Aon 
sold him a policy each year for 10 years which it has since sourced at a much more 
competitive price. He believes Aon shouldve offered him the cheaper policy from the start.
For me to uphold Mr Ps complaint, Id have to see that Aon did something wrong when he 
bought his policy each year. So, Ive thought about Aons responsibilities as the broker, and 
looked at the evidence to see whether it did what it shouldve done.
For the first five years, Aon recorded the sales of the buildings only insurance as advised 
sales. That means it recommended a particular policy and the onus was on Aon to ensure it 
was suitable for Mr Ps needs. Mr P has already told us Aon didnt sell him cover he didnt 
need. The only question he had was about the inclusion of Employee Liability, but Aon 
confirmed that it was a standard part of the policy and not considered when pricing risk. 
Given that Mr P isnt disputing the policy cover, I see no benefit in exploring this point further.
I understand Mr P thinks the suitability of the cover shouldve included the price. That is, he 
thinks Aon shouldve sold him the cheapest policy available to cover his needs. However, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Aon offered anything other than the cheapest policy 
available to it. That doesnt mean it was the cheapest policy on the whole of the market 
though. Aon made it clear to Mr P in the policy offer letters that it only looked at a small part 
of the market. So, any policy it offered would be from that panel of insurers. There would be 
no guarantee that Mr P couldnt get similar cover elsewhere for a lower premium.
The Demands & Needs and Suitability Statement doesnt indicate a specific requirement for 
the cheapest policy available across the whole of the market. So, Im satisfied Aon provided 
the policy in line with its obligations to provide a policy suitable for Mr Ps needs. He was free 
to decline any offer and look elsewhere.
The policy from 2015 onwards changed to an office insurance policy. The documents show 
they were non-advised sales. That means Aon didnt recommend the policy: it simply 
provided the information so Mr P could choose to accept or look elsewhere. The onus on 
Aon was to ensure that the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. So, 
Aon was obliged to draw Mr Ps attention to any unusual or onerous parts of the policy which 
may restrict cover.
Again, looking at the documents, I see that Aon recorded in its offer that it only approached a 
single underwriter. It also confirmed it didnt make any recommendation, so Mr P should 
ensure the policy reflected his requirements. 
This tells me Aon provided the necessary information for Mr P to make an informed decision, 
so I see no reason to conclude that it failed to provide a suitable policy.  
Mr P first complained [about] this issue when he got a much cheaper quote from Aon for his 
policy renewal. Aon explained that it had opened its business to a wider share of the market, 
so it was able to seek lower premiums. I find that to be a fair explanation for the change in 
price. As a business, Aon decides how it operates. Not having access to the wider market 
until then is not a shortfall in service, providing that is made clear. As Ive already said, Im 
satisfied it was.
I can understand that Mr P might be frustrated to find that hes paid more than he mightve 
needed to over the years, but I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest Aon did 
anything wrong. It provided him with the information he needed to make an informed 
decision, but he chose not to look around for another policy. I cant fairly say Aon did 
anything wrong here.
I note Aon offered Mr P £250 for the inconvenience and a refund of premiums where there 
was a difference in base premium. Mr P didnt accept the offer because he didnt think it 
fairly settled his complaint. As I havent found any evidence to suggest Aon did anything 
wrong, I see no reason to require it to make the payment now. If Aon and Mr P choose to 
reach agreement on the payment outside of this process, they are free to do so.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aon didnt have any further comments to make.
Mr P responded to say his complaint wasnt that Aon didnt sell him the best priced policy on 
the whole of the market. Instead he complained that Aon didnt tell him he couldve obtained 
cover for the same risk, elsewhere, for a lower premium.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as those set out in 
my provisional decision. Ill explain.
I understand what Mr P is saying: he didnt expect Aon to sell him the cheapest policy on the 
whole of the market, but he did expect it to tell him if he could get the same policy elsewhere 
at a lower cost. However, Aon was not assessing the whole of the market, so it wouldnt 
have any reason to know what other policies were available to Mr P for the same level of 
cover, for a lower price, but via another broker. I cant reasonably expect Aon to know about 
products it doesnt offer.
Mr P said he simply wanted an appropriate policy to cover appropriate risks for an 
appropriate price. As I said in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Aon failed to do this using the products available to it from its panel of insurers. If Mr P 
wanted full market coverage, then he wouldve needed to approach another or multiple 
brokers.
Providing Aon made Mr P aware that it was only assessing some products  which he has 
already told me he knew  then it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to also assess other 
products it didnt offer against Mr Ps requirements, and advise Mr P to look at them.
Mr P says he was vastly overcharged because of Aons wrongdoing over ten years. The 
evidence suggests Aon charged Mr P for the policy he chose from its panel of insurers. I 
realise Mr P is not saying Aon set the price too high and therefore overcharged him. But the 
rationale here is the same as above: Mr P only approached Aon to find a suitable policy, and 
it did so using the insurer it told Mr P it would use at the price the insurer set. Mr P was free 
to approach other brokers.
In my provisional decision, I commented on the refund Aon offered to Mr P because of the 
difference in base price. He questioned why I have not commented further on that.
The sum Aon offered was for the difference in base price that it identified as part of its 
investigation into his complaint about not being directed to cheaper policies. I didnt 
comment further on that because Mr Ps complaint was not about Aon overcharging him. 
Aon found the error and offered a correction, along with interest and compensation by way of 
apology. Mr P didnt accept it in resolution of this complaint. But they are two separate 
issues and Mr P didnt bring a complaint about base prices to this service. So, my provisional 
decision was that Aon didnt need to do anything about his complaint that it shouldve 
directed him to other brokers. Its likely that the offer it made to settle the matter about base 
prices is still available to Mr P should he wish to accept that directly with Aon.
Finally, Mr P made further comment about the change from advised sales to non-advised 
sales during the time he used Aon. He explained he wasn't aware of it and expected that 
Aon shouldve made him aware.
As this is not something Mr P raised with Aon as part of his complaint, I cant address it now. 
Mr P will need to first give Aon an opportunity to respond to his concerns.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman