DRN-3835091
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society credited some funds to the wrong 
account. This meant she couldnt withdraw these to pay towards the cost of a trip she is 
hoping to go on. 
(Miss S is a minor and many actions relating to her affairs, to which I refer below, have in 
fact been carried out on her behalf by one of her parents. To simplify this decision however, I 
shall refer to them as all having been undertaken by Miss S herself.)
What happened
In August 2021 Miss S deposited a cheque for the Sum with Nationwide. She says that she 
requested the cheque to be put into her savings account. Nationwide however credited it to 
her Child Trust Fund, (CTF). Both parties agree that this adversely affected Miss S rights to 
withdraw the relevant amount or any part of it, compared to the rights she would have had, 
had it been paid into her savings account. Because Nationwide agreed it had made an error, 
it paid Miss S compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator felt that the compensation paid was fair.
Miss S disagreed. She felt that our adjudicator, having focused on the impact the error had 
had on her, hadnt fairly addressed the fact that Nationwide had made a mistake. She says 
this especially as other customers could be placed in the same situation because of 
Nationwides processes, which were unable to rectify the mistake.
So the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as weve already explained to Miss S, the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
is to try to resolve individual disputes between complainants and financial businesses. We 
dont regulate financial businesses; that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So we 
have no authority to tell businesses to revise their processes in a wider sense. Instead we 
focus on whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint.
Miss S said that she realised that the mistake had been made, and pointed this out to 
Nationwide very shortly after she had deposited the cheque. And she feels that it had had 
the time and ability to rectify the error but had failed to do so. 
Miss S said that the local Nationwide staff tried to rectify the issue, but its own systems 
prevented this happening. The Nationwide employee to whom she spoke said he cant 
remember every team he spoke to, but recalls that he did speak to the savings team which 
ultimately confirmed that deposits made into a CTF arent adjustable, even when made in 
error. He also says he spoke to another team to see if the cheque could be cancelled, but 
was told there was nothing wrong with the cheque and it was made out to the account 
owner. He further says that he raised the issue to quite a senior level but didnt get a 
favourable outcome. I find that Nationwides employee, who dealt with Miss S in this matter 
took reasonable steps to try to rectify the mistake.
A CTF is a type of long-term tax-free savings scheme for children which was promoted for a 
period by the Government. The monies in a CTF are required to remain in the account until 
the account owner has reached maturity. And can only be withdrawn earlier by, or on behalf 
of the child, in very specific circumstances. These circumstances didnt apply to Miss S. This 
meant that, on the face of it, Nationwide couldnt reverse its mistake. 
The interest rate payable in respect of Cs CTF in February 2022 was greater than that 
payable in respect of her savings account. Because of the restricted access to the monies in 
her CTF as compared to her savings account, I think its reasonable to assume that the 
interest rate in her CTF would have been higher throughout the whole time it was in 
existence. This means that the funds in question being deposited into the wrong account 
didnt result in a direct loss to Miss S. In any event this account with Nationwide has now 
been closed and the funds moved elsewhere, so any action it could now take is limited
However, Miss S says that the main impact of the error was not being able to access the 
money to pay towards the cost of a trip she is going on. But Miss S parents have 
themselves made arrangements to make payments to ensure that she doesnt miss out. So, 
although this might have caused her parents some loss, Miss S, herself, may only have 
suffered some distress as a result of the error. Under our rules, its only Miss S who is 
eligible to bring this complaint to us. So in reaching my decision, I have to focus on the 
impact of the mistake on her. Having done so, Im satisfied that the compensation of £200 
already paid to her by Nationwide for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So there is nothing further I require Nationwide to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman