DRN-3953039
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy for damage to her property caused by a fire at a 
neighbouring property. 
Admiral use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Admiral 
includes these agents.
This decision covers those elements of complaint raised by Mrs Y with this service in 
September 2022. These are delays in the handling of the claim and lack of communication 
during the  process. Mrs Y was also concerned at issues with securing alternative 
accommodation following the incident. This decision doesnt cover work carried out under 
the claim, nor the other elements of claim that were outstanding and ongoing at the point 
Mrs Y complained to this service (including damaged contents).
What happened
In October 2021, a fire at a neighbouring property caused damage to Mrs Ys property (part 
of a row of terraced properties). She contacted Admiral to tell them about the incident and 
lodge a claim. Admiral appointed a surveyor (D) to inspect the property and assess the 
damage. Following their report, Admiral also appointed a loss adjuster given the likely value 
of the claim (including alternative accommodation, as Mrs Ys property wasnt habitable).
A scope of repair work was drawn up and tenders for the work sought from approved 
contractors and received in January 2022. However, review of the quotes took some time, 
and repair work wasnt scheduled to start until May 2022. Further time was taken up by 
discussions between Admiral, the firm carrying out drying work at the property, and the 
repair contractor. This meant repair work didnt commence until July 2022, with completion in 
September 2022. Further issues at the property were raised by Mrs Y.
Unhappy at the time taken for the claim to be assessed and repair work starting Mrs Y 
complained to Admiral in April 2022. As part of her complaint, she was also concerned at 
how the claim had been handled, raised issues about a lack of updates; the scope of the 
work; and delays securing alternative accommodation, meaning she had to stay with friends 
and losing a potential alternative property. She was also concerned at temporary storage for 
her possessions, leading to damage to them. 
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint, saying they didnt think there had been any errors in the 
service theyd provided to Mrs Y. In their final response in May 2022 they said, on the scope 
of work, this had been prepared by a qualified surveyor and no issues had been previously 
raised. But they would consider any issues regarding work Mrs Y thought omitted from the 
scope. On the issue of alternative accommodation, Admiral said it was Mrs Ys preference to 
stay with friends, and shed rejected potential alternative accommodation offered to her. On 
the storage of possessions at her property (as opposed to being moved to temporary 
storage) Admiral said it had been agreed with Mrs Y that they would be stored in a clean 
room at her property. On the communication issue, Admiral thought this had been 
satisfactory (including the service from the loss adjuster).
Mrs Y then complained to this service (September 2022). She was unhappy at the time 
taken to progress her claim and the delays shed experienced, including a lack of 
communication. She thought delays in Admiral approving alternative accommodation led to 
her losing it, so had to stay with friends. The delays had also impacted her health, making 
things worse. While work to repair the roof began in July and the property had been 
decorated, some smoke and water damage to her property hadnt been repaired.  And 
contents affected by the incident were left for four months and then had to be disposed of 
because of mould. The contents claim still needed to be settled.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that while there were issues about access 
and the neighbours roof not being repaired, there were avoidable delays in progressing the 
claim. It was lodged in November 2021, but repair work didnt begin until May 2022. Mrs Y 
had to chase Admiral for updates on progress. While concerned about delays in finding 
alternative accommodation, the investigator thought Admiral looked for accommodation, but 
there was a shortage of property suitable for Mrs Ys needs. Due the delays and poor 
communication, Mrs Y couldnt return to her property sooner, causing considerable distress 
over several months, particularly given her disability issues. The investigator thought Admiral 
should pay Mrs Y £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.  
Admiral responded to the investigators view to say they didnt think Mrs Y raised concerns 
about delays when making her complaint, so they wouldnt have awarded compensation for 
the issue. And they hadnt upheld that part of her complaint about concerns about a lack of 
communication. Our investigator clarified and responded to Admirals points but didnt 
receive a further response. So, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to reassure Mrs Y that Ive considered carefully what shes told us about her 
health issues and her disability. I appreciate the damage to her property and having to move 
into alternative accommodation would have been stressful and affected her more because of 
her health issues and disability. Ive borne this in mind when considering the complaint and 
forming my findings and conclusions, in the context of my role here being to decide whether 
Admiral have acted fairly towards Mrs Y.
There are several elements in Mrs Ys claim (and her complaint) which Ive considered in 
turn. First, the time taken to progress her claim and the delays shed experienced, including 
a lack of communication. Second, the alternative accommodation issues, where Mrs Y 
thought delays in Admiral approving alternative accommodation led to her losing it, so had to 
stay with friends. The delays had also impacted her health, making things worse. Third,  
some smoke and water damage to her property hadnt been repaired.  
Given the contents element of Mrs Ys claim were ongoing and yet to be settled at the time 
of her complaint, I havent considered this element, as set out set out earlier.
On the handling of the claim, including the time taken and lack of communication, having 
considered the evidence and information available, including Admirals case notes, Ive 
concluded there were avoidable delays and a lack of communication through the process. 
As set out above, there were delays in agreeing an approved contractor (including clarifying 
tender costs) that the case notes indicate took some months to resolve, meaning repair 
wasnt scheduled to begin until May 2022, some six to seven months after the incident. And 
further time was taken because of the need to carry out and complete drying of the property 
before the repair work could commence. On the communication issue, from the case notes Mrs Y did raise concerns about a lack of 
updates and communication, from D and from Admiral, dating from December 2021 and the 
time that followed (both up to the point she complained to Admiral, and subsequently). While 
I can see Admiral did seek to contact Mrs Y and update her, but overall I think they could 
have done more to keep Mrs Y updated, particularly given the time it took from the incident 
to the repair work being started. As well as the health issues and disability that Mrs Y raised 
with them.
Ill consider both these points when thinking about what Admiral should do to put things right.
On the second issue, alternative accommodation, Ive looked at the available evidence and 
information, including that from Mrs Y and from Admiral (including their case notes). Based 
on what Ive seen, I dont think Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs Y. I 
can see that Admiral did actively look for alternative accommodation, bearing in mind Mrs 
Ys circumstances (her disability and the need for accommodation for her and a family 
member, as well as pets). Admirals case notes show they looked for alternative 
accommodation, which Mrs Y visited (but declined) before somewhere suitable was found. 
Taking all the points into account, I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably.
On the third issue, whether there were remaining issues with the scope of work and the 
damage to the property, these were ongoing at the point of Mrs Ys complaint to this service, 
and Ive noted Admirals position that they would review these issues as part of assessing 
and settling the claim. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what Admiral should do to put things 
right, in respect of the issues in the complaint where I think they havent acted fairly and 
reasonably, in respect of the length of time the claim process and repairs have taken, as well 
as the communication issues.
I think the length of time has caused Miss Y significant distress and inconvenience, being 
unable to return to her property until, as I understand it, November 2022. Which is over a 
year since the incident. I think some of the delays were avoidable, for example the delay in 
repair work commencing, as Ive set out earlier. And the standard of communication could 
have been better, particularly bearing in mind Mrs Ys health issues and disability. Both of 
which would have added to her distress and inconvenience and had a greater impact. 
Ive thought about all these factors, in the circumstances of the case. I think £500 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs Y.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ys complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mrs Y £500 in compensation for inconvenience (if they havent already paid it). 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mrs Y accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman