DRN-1501313
 
The complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
 
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr W between September 
2015 and December 2015. Mr W borrowed amounts ranging between £150 and £500 to be 
repaid in six monthly instalments. Many of the repayments overlapped so that Mr W had to 
pay several each month. The highest expected amounts he had to repay monthly increased 
from £75.55 to £347.20. From what I can see, Mr W repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint in part and thought loans four and five shouldnt 
have been given. Sunny disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny asked Mr W for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr W said his monthly income was about £2,075. He said his expenditure was 
between about £500 and £1,500 a month. From what I can see, there was nothing adverse 
in Sunnys credit checks that should have prompted further questions. 
I think Sunnys affordability checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the time and his history with 
Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr 
W provided or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr W was saying. The repayments, even where they 
overlapped, looked affordable for Mr W. So I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to have 
provided loans one to three. 
But I think Sunny should have made better checks for loan four. This was Mr Ws fourth loan 
in three months. The amount borrowed had doubled from loan one. The loan was to be 
repaid over six months. So I think Sunny should then have asked Mr W further questions 
about his finances and verified what hed told it to ensure he could sustain his repayments. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have 
shown that Mr W was having problems managing his money. This was because he had at 
least two other short-term loans with other lenders as well as loan three with Sunny still 
outstanding when her asked for loan four. So I think Sunny should have realised that Mr W 
would be unable to sustainably repay loan four or any subsequent loans. And so I think 
Sunny was wrong to have approved loans four and five. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, I think Sunny needs to:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Mr Ws credit file; 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr W 
compensation as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman