DRN-2733057
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs and Mr M has said they were told they had to have PPI or they wouldnt get the 
mortgage. However, Im conscious that this happened about 22 years ago, and I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened that long ago  so its difficult to 
know how far I can rely on what they now remember.
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds mis-sold the PPI in this way, unless there 
was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone 
has said another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be 
reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone 
prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Also, I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets 
to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to 
say Lloyds did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr M, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Ms particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mrs and Mr Ms situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr M (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr M would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr M in a more secure position, if Mr M had eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr M couldnt afford the PPI when he 
took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr M would 
have been affected by any of these.
Mr M has said he tried to claim on the policy six months after it started, because of a work 
accident. He says he was told that he hadnt had the policy long enough. 
Ive looked at the policy wording and I cant see a reason this should have been turned down 
on those grounds. If Mr M believes he was wrongly turned down for a claim, and has some 
evidence of being off work, he could consider complaining about this to Lloyds. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation would have 
been suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr M to decide whether they wanted to accept 
the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they were given a proper choice  
which I accept they are saying didnt happen).
Its hard now to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr M took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman