DRN-4169116
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital Home Loans Limited trading as CHL Mortgages (CHL) wrongly 
recorded mortgage arrears on his credit file. Mr R said this only happened because CHL 
wrongly applied previous overpayments, and he said it didnt tell him about the arrears.
What happened
Mr R said hed had an interest only mortgage on his property since 2007. Mr R said that he 
understood he would always owe the same amount on this mortgage, but he could see the 
balance had reduced by about £2,000 since 2007. Mr R said there had sometimes been 
changes in the interest rate, which changed his contractual monthly payment (CMP) but he 
didnt always change the monthly payment he sent to CHL. This meant he sometimes 
overpaid, but at other times, paid a little less than was owed. He said that overall, hed paid 
more than he owed. 
Mr R said he now wanted to remortgage his property with a different lender, but he wasnt 
able to. He found out that CHL reported the underpayment to credit reference agencies 
(CRA) and it affected his credit score. Mr R said that CHL didnt want him to move his loan 
elsewhere, which wasnt fair. 
Mr R said hed asked CHL to amend his credit file, but it wouldnt. So he wanted us to look 
into things for him. 
CHL didnt think it had done anything wrong. In late 2019, Mr Rs arrears were increasing. By 
the end of January 2020, his arrears were more than his CMP, so this was reported to 
CRAs. CHL said Mr Rs arrears were briefly below the CMP when he paid in late March 
2020, but then he didnt pay anything for April 2020, so his arrears were back over one 
months CMP. And he stayed over a month in arrears until July 2020. 
CHL said these arrears had been reported correctly to CRAs. It said its required to report an 
accurate payment record on mortgage accounts to the CRAs. It cant avoid this, or submit 
incorrect information. And it wouldnt amend this credit record now. CHL said it was sorry it 
had taken a while to respond to Mr Rs complaint about this. 
CHL then wrote again, after Mr R complained that he should be in credit because of his 
previous overpayments. CHL told Mr R that his previous overpayments werent building up 
credit on his mortgage account. If Mr R wasnt in arrears when he made an overpayment, 
then any overpayment would then be applied to the capital balance, reducing the amount Mr 
R would owe at the end of his mortgage. CHL said it isnt obliged to hold overpayments as a 
credit against any future missed payments. It said mortgages dont work in the same way as 
savings accounts. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said CHL had told Mr R 
when to make his payments, and when he was in arrears. It had also applied his 
overpayments in line with the terms of his mortgage. She said it had correctly reported these 
arrears to the CRAs, and she wouldnt ask it to change this now. 
Mr R disagreed. He repeated that he had an interest only mortgage, and said if he paid 
more, he was just paying his interest in advance. Mr R said there was a different procedure 
he had to follow if he wanted to pay off any of the capital balance he owed, and hed never 
asked to do that. 
Mr R also said hed never been in arrears. He thought CHL had misused previous 
overpayments, and had done this just so he couldnt move his mortgage somewhere else. 
He still wanted his credit file to be amended. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr R said he has an interest only mortgage, so he thinks the amount of money he owes CHL 
should remain unchanged throughout the lifetime of the mortgage. Mr R says CHL isnt 
allowed to use any part of the money he pays each month towards the capital he owes it  
even if he pays more than his CMP. He says that monthly payment is only to cover the 
interest on the loan, and theres a different procedure to go through if he wants to pay off 
some of the capital. 
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Rs mortgage, and theres no requirement there that the full 
amount of each monthly payment he makes should be used to pay only the interest owing 
on this mortgage, as Mr R has suggested. CHL says if Mr R pays more than he owes each 
month, and he isnt in arrears, then any overpayment will be used to reduce the capital on 
the mortgage. That will in turn reduce the interest hes being charged. 
Ive read the terms of Mr Rs mortgage, and I think what CHL has said about how it applies 
any money in excess of the CMP is consistent with those terms. And I also think thats a fair 
approach for CHL to take in this case. So I dont think Mr R could rely on any previous 
overpayments, to be carried forward and make up for more recent payments which are 
below the CMP.
I can see that over the lifetime of this mortgage, Mr R frequently made small overpayments, 
which have been applied against the capital owed. He has also spent some time paying less 
than the CMP each month, which means arrears accrued. 
The negative marks on Mr Rs credit file now happened because from August 2018, he was 
paying a little bit less each month than the CMP on this mortgage. So his arrears very slowly 
mounted up. Lenders wont report arrears until the amount owed is at least as much as one 
monthly payment, so these arrears werent reported until February 2020. 
Mr R was one month in arrears for January and February 2020. This was reported to CRAs 
for February and March 2020. (Credit files usually report a month behind, so if Mr R is in 
arrears in January, this will show on his credit file in February.) He made two payments in 
March, which brought his account into credit, meaning no arrears were reported in respect of 
that month. But then he made no payment for April. It seems likely that Mr R had intended 
the second payment in March to cover this period. But this meant his account was in arrears 
again during April, May and June, which was reported in May, June and July 2020. In May, Mr Rs CMP had been reduced, and his monthly payments remained the same. So 
his arrears began slowly reducing from May. And by July 2020, Mr Rs arrears were less 
than his CMP, so CHL stopped reporting arrears.
Im satisfied that the payments I can see on Mr Rs account match the credit reporting history 
I can see. 
Mr R said CHL never notified him of missed payments or arrears. But Ive seen a number of 
arrears letters which were sent to Mr R. These were sent to an overseas address, which is 
the same address on the complaint response letters. I dont know whether these letters were 
received, but I can see that this is an address Mr R gave CHL in 2013. 
Mr R told CHL more recently that he works away, and cant receive post, so he asked CHL 
to email him. But I can see Mr R said this wasnt the case at the time these letters were sent. 
So I havent seen anything to suggest CHL made a mistake in using this address for Mr R, or 
that it would be CHLs fault if these letters werent received. And in June 2020, CHL also 
tried to call Mr R about the arrears on his account, but the phone number hed given CHL 
wouldnt connect. So if Mr R didnt know about these arrears, I dont think this is CHLs fault.
So I dont think the arrears markers on Mr Rs credit file are a mistake by CHL, or that it 
didnt try to warn him about these arrears. And I dont think CHL only did this so it could keep 
Mr R as a customer, stopping him moving his mortgage somewhere else. As CHL has 
explained, it has an obligation to provide true reporting of Mr Rs repayments. And I think 
thats what it has done here. I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think CHL has to 
amend his credit file now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman