DRN-4077495
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a car after his hire agreement ended.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire agreement in December 2019. Mr S says hes unhappy with the end 
of contract charges that were applied when he returned the car. Mr S told us:
MBFS is trying to charge him for damage to the car that he didnt cause, and that 
although hes asked for evidence of the damage from MBFS, this has not been 
provided;
A third-party collected and inspected the car  this took an hour, and they took 
photos and a video  before advising him that there was no chargeable damage to 
the car and then driving it away;
two weeks later he received an invoice from MBFS for around £1,000 in respect of 
damage that had been identified following a second inspection;
he accepted one of the itemised charges, but has disputed the remaining charges 
with MBFS;
MBFS tactics are threatening because it says it will pass the outstanding debt to a 
debt collection agency if it isnt paid promptly.
Mr S says MBFS should compensate him for the stress it has caused and the time he has 
wasted dealing with this matter. And he says it needs to change its practices and processes 
in relation to how its cars are inspected.
MBFS partially upheld this complaint. It said having reviewed the notes from the inspection 
agent, it had not seen sufficient evidence to warrant charging Mr S for the damaged spoke 
on the rear left hand wheel, and it removed this charge from the invoice. It also agreed to 
reduce one of the other charges, leaving an outstanding amount owing of £775.40.
MBFS said it provided Mr S with a copy of its Vehicle Return Standards when he first took 
out the finance agreement and again six months before it ended. It said this document 
detailed the expected return condition of Mr S car. And it said Mr S had had ample 
opportunity to familiarise himself with its fair wear and tear expectations.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and the pricing matrix. And 
it confirmed that it was owed £775.40 by Mr S. MBFS explained that the finance agreement 
signed by Mr S had clearly stated that if the vehicle is not in good condition, repair and 
working order when it is returned to us, or if any additions, alterations, or replacements have 
been made which we reasonably consider affect the value of the vehicle, then you have to 
compensate us for any loss that we suffer.
Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. He says he returned the car with 
less than 10,000 miles on the clock, even though it was contracted at 24,000 so actually 
there was an increase in the sales value of this vehicle.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that his role was to decide whether the charges applied by MBFS were fair and 
reasonable.
He said hed looked at the evidence submitted by MBFS to support its position and assessed 
this against both MBFS VRS document and the wider industry guidelines, and he thought 
the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, was 
chargeable.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of his complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr S should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Firstly, I understand why Mr S wants to see an improvement in MBFS processes for the 
inspection and return of its cars. But that isnt the role of this Service, and my role isnt to 
punish businesses for their performance or behaviour, thats the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have 
experienced and see if the business, in this case MBFS, has done anything wrong. If it has, I 
seek to put the consumer  Mr S  back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes 
hadnt happened. And I may award compensation if I think its appropriate
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr S and MBFS afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mr S, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out what the acceptable conditions are, 
with examples, and what conditions are unacceptable. Ive read this carefully, and Im 
satisfied that Mr S was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is 
whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies six areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - outside 
fair wear and tear:
1. Bumper rear  scratched £210.00
2. Door  left hand rear  scratched £210.00
3. Lamp  right hand rear  scratched   £25.00
4. Quarter panel arch extension  left  scuffed   £50.40
5. Quarter panel  left hand rear  scratched £170.00
6. Wheel  right hand rear  rim damage £110.00
Mr S accepts the findings of damage in respect of (4) Quarter panel arch extension  so Ill 
only be looking at the five charges that are disputed.Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr S.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says that:
Surface scratches on paintwork, bodywork and bumpers of less than 25mm are 
acceptable as long as the primer or bare metal isnt showing, and the scratch can be 
polished out.
Minor scratches of less than 25mm on lamps are acceptable.
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels 
are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy 
wheel is not acceptable.
So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as damaged are indeed beyond what is 
recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry standards.
Next, Ive looked at the VRS that were in place at the time Mr S signed his hire agreement in 
in December 2019. These say:
Bumpers and body mouldings  Scuff marks up to 50mm, which do not adversely 
affect the overall appearance of your vehicle are acceptable.
Body & Paint  Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the 
base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is 
not acceptable
Lamps  All lamps must be operational, holes and cracks in the glass or plastic 
covers of lamp units are not acceptable.
Wheels and Tyres  Scuffs chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that for each of 
the five disputed charges, the damage is outside fair wear and tear. The evidence can be 
seen clearly in the photographs provided by the third-party inspection agent.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was any other reason why it would be unfair for 
MBFS to apply these charges. I understand that the car was returned with a lower-than-
expected mileage. Mr S told us that because he drove far fewer than the contracted mileage 
allowance, there was an increase in the sales value of this vehicle. But Ive seen nothing in 
the agreements terms and conditions that would allow for Mr S to receive a discount or a 
credit for utilising less than the maximum permitted mileage. So, I wouldnt expect MBFS to 
offer Mr S any rebate for this.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments that some of this damage took place after the vehicle was 
collected from his home, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because MBFS 
appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to conduct an 
assessment. And although Mr S says that when the car was collected, none of the disputed 
damage was noted or highlighted to him, I think its more likely than not that the nature of the 
identified damage wouldnt have been apparent until the car was thoroughly examined later. 
I find it plausible that the wet weather conditions and the poor lighting at the time wouldnt 
have provided an accurate picture of the state of the car.Mr S says he was unaware of, and he didnt agree to a second inspection without his being 
present. So, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence. Ive noted that the finance agreement 
signed by Mr S in December 2019 says that an inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.. Furthermore, the Vehicle Condition Report 
that Mr S signed when the car was collected in January 2023 makes no finding on the 
condition of the car  that section is blank. But immediately above Mr S signature is a 
statement that reads Second Inspection Required. And directly beneath his signature, it 
states Your vehicle will go through a secondary inspection at the Mercedes-Benz Defleet 
Centre and an invoice showing all charges will be sent to you.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware 
that a detailed inspection would take place after the car had been collected, and that 
following this, MBFS would advise him of the outcome of that inspection and any charges 
that were due.
Finally, I know Mr S is unhappy that MBFS considered instructing a third-party debt 
collection agency. Mr S says it shouldnt have done this whilst his complaint was being 
looked into by this Service. And he says this was threatening behaviour. But I dont agree. 
MBFS is allowed to appoint a third party to manage its debt collection processes and it can 
also record non-payment of an outstanding balance on a consumers credit file. The fact 
Mr S has an ongoing complaint with MBFS, or the fact that he brought his complaint to this 
Service, does not automatically mean that any debt collection activities should be suspended 
or reversed  this is because there is an outstanding balance, and MBFS has been clear that 
this amount remains unpaid.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mr S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with its own VRS and the relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has 
acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman