DRN-3212839
The complaint
Ms D complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and the service they provided when she called 
them to dispute transactions on her current account. 
What happened
In October 2020, Ms D rang Lloyds to discuss payments she wanted refunding that had 
been taken by a third-party company, who Ill refer to as A. The advisor placed a block on 
Ms Ds account preventing A from taking any further payments. But the advisor explained Ms 
D would need to speak to A first before Lloyds were able to raise a disputed and refund the 
transactions, totalling £31. 
But Ms D explained to the advisor that she suffers from anxiety, PTSD and mild learning 
difficulties, so she was unable to do this. This information was already noted on Lloyds 
system at the time of the call. The advisor maintained there was nothing more they could do 
and made several comments that Ms D feels were discriminatory and upsetting. So, she 
terminated the call and raised a complaint.
Ms D was unhappy with the way she was spoken to by the advisor. She thought theyd been 
discriminatory by suggesting Ms D should be able to call A due to information shown on her 
bank statements. She was also unhappy that the advisor hadnt noted the fact she suffered 
from anxiety, PTSD and mild learning difficulties when this information was available to her. 
And she was unhappy with the apology the advisor gave her whilst on the phone. So, she 
wanted to be compensated for this.
Lloyds responded to the complaint on the same day and upheld it. While the call wasnt 
listened to, the complaint handler agreed from Ms Ds testimony that the service shed 
received had been unfair. So, they refunded the £31 Ms D was disputing and paid Ms D an 
additional £75 to recognise any upset shed been caused. Ms D accepting this on the phone 
call. But Ms D has explained she was still in shock at this point and wasnt thinking clearly. 
So, when she received a letter explaining her complaint had been resolved, she decided to 
refer her complaint to us as she wasnt happy with the offer Lloyds had made.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained theyd listened to 
the call and they didnt think the £75 Lloyds offered was enough to recognise the upset 
caused by their failures. They didnt think the way the advisor spoke to Ms D was fair or that 
Ms Ds mental health conditions werent noted before the conversation began. So, they 
thought Lloyds should pay Ms D another £75, bringing the total compensation to £150, to 
recognise the upset shed been caused.
Lloyds agreed with this view, but Ms D didnt. She didnt think another £75 was enough to 
recognise the knock-on effect the situation had on her mental health. She explained shed 
been suffering from increased stress and anxiety since the call and her friend also contacted 
our service to make us aware that Ms D had self-harmed due to this. 
As Ms D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms D. I understand Ms D 
suffers with anxiety, PTSD and mild-learning difficulties which makes the idea of contacting a 
company she doesnt know, in this case A, extremely worrying and upsetting. And I 
appreciate she made Lloyds aware of this before the call in October 2020. So, when she did 
call them, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms D to expect Lloyds to be aware of this and 
to be empathetic towards this and attempt to create alternative ways of ensuring a dispute is 
raised. 
And its not in dispute that Lloyds failed to do this. Its already been accepted by Lloyds that 
they failed to notice Ms Ds mental health conditions initially which forced Ms D to declare 
them again. And theyve accepted the way the advisor spoke to Ms D was unreasonable and 
lacked any reasonable level of empathy. As Lloyds have already accepted they acted 
unfairly, I dont intend to discuss this further. Instead, Ive considered what I think Lloyds 
should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Ms D back in the position she wouldve 
been, had Lloyds acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, Lloyds have already made an 
offer they think does this. I can see Lloyds have refunded Ms D the total value of the 
disputed transactions and paid her another £75 to recognise any upset she was caused. So, 
Ive thought about whether I think this offer is fair and adequately addresses the impact Ms D 
suffered. And in this situation, I dont think it is.
The £75 Lloyds offered was made without the call recording of Ms Ds conversation with the 
adviser being listened too. Ive listened to this call at length and having done so, I dont think 
the £75 offered is enough.
This is because there were several service failures on this call. These ranged from the 
adviser not reading Ms Ds disclosed and noted mental health conditions to providing an 
apology if Ms D had taken what she said the wrong way. From listening the call, I think the 
adviser showed an unreasonable level of empathy throughout and I think it was clear Ms D 
became more upset each time the adviser made an error. 
And I think its clear the had an impact on Ms Ds state of mind and her mental health as she 
remained upset when she was called back later that day in response to her complaint. So, I 
think Lloyds should offer Ms D more to recognise this.
But any decision I reach must also be fair to both parties. And I have to take into 
consideration the speed at which Lloyds dealt with Ms Ds concerns, ensuring she received 
a refund of the disputed transaction and a compensatory offer the same day. I think this 
shows Lloyds taking reasonable steps to address Ms Ds concerns and minimise the impact 
of the service she received.
So, bearing this in mind, I think the recommendation put forward by our investigator of an additional £75 in a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
suggested. This brings the total compensation paid to Ms D to £150, which I think fairly 
recognises the impact suffered by Ms D while also taking into consideration Lloyds swift 
response to the issue. 
I understand Ms D doesnt think this offer is enough and I want to reassure Ms D Ive 
considered her individual circumstances and the information we received from her friend 
about her self-harm. And I dont intend for the decision to seem as though this information 
has been disregarded or not thought of as important.
But my decision and the award I make must be independent and fair to both parties. And so, 
it needs to be relative to the failings of Lloyds and the impact these had directly on Ms D 
while also factoring in Lloyds attempts to mitigate these. And I think the award of an 
additional £75 does so on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC and 
direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms D an additional £75 to recognise her suffering following the poor level of 
service she received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman