DRN-2045635
The complaint
Ms Ts complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) has 
handled direct debit arrangements on her account  which left her owing more than she 
thought she did. 
What happened
In 2018, Ms T bought electrical goods on a buy now, pay later plan.  Credit for the plan was 
provided by Creation.  
Under the plan, no interest was payable if full payment was made within six months. 
Otherwise, interest would be charged, and payments could be made on a monthly basis.  
A direct debit mandate, which would allow Creation to take payments from Ms Ts bank 
account, was attached to the credit agreement.
Ms T didnt make any payments within the first six months.  So Creation began to charge 
interest on what she owed, and to collect payments from the account detailed in the direct 
debit mandate.  In addition, Ms T made extra payments using her debit card.
In August 2019, Creation was contacted by a third party.  The third party said that payments 
were being taken from their account without their authority.  These payments had been 
credited to Ms Ts account.  Because they were disputed, the payments were reversed, and 
the direct debit cancelled.
In September 2019, Ms T noticed the balance on her account had gone up, rather than 
down.  So she called Creation to find out why.  Creation told her this was because the 
interest free period had ended, so interest had been added to the amount she owed.  They 
didnt tell Ms T that the direct debits which had been credited to her account had been 
reversed.
During the call, Creation asked Ms T if they could reinstate the direct debits.  She agreed 
they could.  Creation didnt check the details with Ms T.  So they reactivated the third partys 
details.  
As a result, further payments were taken from the third partys account.  These were again 
disputed  and the payments were reversed.
Ms T complained to Creation.  She said that the direct debit had been set up without her 
permission. And that interest had been added to the account when shed been told that 
wouldnt happen.  Creation investigated and wrote to Ms T with their findings.  They said 
theyd not found any evidence that Ms T had been told no interest would be payable  so, as 
per the terms and conditions, interest had been charged once the interest free period had 
ended.  And they said that the direct debit had been reinstated during her call of September 
2019.  So they didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms T wasnt satisfied, so she brought her complaint to us.  She said shed been told the 
direct debits had been reversed because an indemnity had been requested.   But shed 
never made that request  and her bank had no record of this.  And no payments had gone 
back to her account.  She said shed tried to sort this out with Creation but hadnt been able 
to.
Our investigator looked at the complaint.  He found that the details on Ms Ts direct debit 
mandate werent right  they gave the sort code for one of her accounts, but the account 
number for another. So the payments which had been reversed had actually come from 
someone elses account  which is why they hadnt been returned to Ms T.  
He didnt think Creation had done anything wrong by using the account details given on the 
direct debit mandate.  But he did think that, when Ms T had spoken to Creation in September 
2019 about reinstating the direct debit, they shouldve checked the details they had with her. 
Instead, they just re-activated the details they had  which were wrong.  Our investigator 
thought Creation should pay Ms T £75 compensation for this.
Ms T asked that an ombudsman make a final decision on her complaint.  So Ive been asked 
to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms Ts clearly been confused by Creations handling of her account. I can understand why  
both our investigator and I have had to look very carefully at the evidence to see whats 
happened.  
Having done that, Ive seen that the account details on the direct debit mandate attached to 
Ms Ts credit agreement are different from the details she gave our investigator  the 
account numbers the same, but the sort code is different.  Ms T gave our investigator the 
details in circumstances where she knew theyd be used to check what had happened. So I 
think shed have taken particular care to make sure they were right.  Im persuaded by this 
that the details on the direct debit mandate are wrong.
And its clear from the indemnity request received from the third party that those details in 
fact belonged to someone else.  When they were told this, Creation reversed the payments 
and adjusted the balance on the account theyd been credited to  which was Ms Ts 
account. That was why her balance went up.  
Creations records show that they wrote to Ms T telling her about the indemnity requests.  
Ms T says she didnt receive those letters.
I agree with our investigator that Creation didnt do anything wrong in reversing the 
payments that had been made to Ms Ts account. And Im satisfied they took steps to advise 
Ms T what theyd done.  Its unfortunate that Ms T didnt get those letters  but I cant hold 
Creation responsible for that. 
But I dont think they shouldve simply reinstated the direct debit without checking the 
payment details with Ms T.  Its clear they knew thered been a problem with the direct debit 
payments.  And the direct debit was reinstated during a phone call. So it wouldve been 
reasonable for Creation to check the details with Ms T when they were speaking to her about 
it.  It was an opportunity to stop the same thing happening again  which Creation missed.
Putting things rightIve thought carefully about what should happen in this case to put things right.  Ms T 
believes shes not been given credit for all the payments shes made.  So she thinks shes 
due some repayment.
Our investigator asked Ms T for copies of her bank statements so I could see if any direct 
debits had been paid out of her bank account.  But Ms T hasnt provided any.  So Ive had to 
rely on the information from Creation to make my decision.  That showed me that the 
indemnity request came from a third party  not Ms T.  So the payments received wouldve 
been returned to that account.  Without any evidence to show me anything different, I can 
only conclude that Ms T didnt make any direct debit payments - whatever her intention.  So 
Im not satisfied she paid any more than she owed to Creation.  And for that reason, Im not 
deciding that Creation should make any refund to her.
But I do agree with our investigator that Creation caused Ms T confusion by not checking the 
account details they had for her when she called them in September 2019.  Had they done 
so, it would have given Ms T the opportunity to give the correct details, and avoid the second 
indemnity request being made.  I think Creation should compensate Ms T for causing that 
confusion.  And I agree with our investigator that £75 is the right amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ts complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and directing them to pay Ms T £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman