DRN-3143956
The complaint
Mr W complains that JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) led him to believe hed be 
able to amend his joint life annuity following his divorce. 
The advice was given by Alexander Forbes which is now part of JLT, so Ive just referred to 
JLT in the decision.
What happened
In 2008 Mr W sought advice from JLT about his retirement planning. At the time he was 
aged 54, married and working in the airline industry. He was a higher rate tax payer. 
In terms of pension provision Mr W had the following:
Deferred membership of a previous employers pension scheme (B) operated by 
provider S;
Deferred membership of another previous employers scheme (G) also operated by 
S
He joined the group personal pension (GPP) with his current employer, following advice from 
JLT as set out in their first recommendation letter of 6 November 2008, to benefit from the 
tax relief on contributions.
A further recommendation letter was issued on 11 November which amended the 
recommendation, as Mr Ws funds were largely held in low risk assets so he could take a bit 
more risk and could afford a slightly higher level of contributions.
From the B scheme Mr W was entitled to annual retirement income of around £23,300 plus 
a widows pension of around £16,600. These amounts would be reduced if he took the 
maximum tax-free lump sum of around £111,000. Mr W told the advisor that in the event of 
his death hed like his wife who was about ten years younger than him, to have an annual 
net income of around £40,000. So essentially JLT was asked to establish the best way to top 
up his then wifes income after Mr Ws death. 
With the 11 November 2008 letter the advisor enclosed a document which set out the 
various ways to take pension benefits and the pros and cons of each. It didnt recommend 
one option over another or compare the products from particular providers. It was simply 
generic information about the features of the different options. One option in this list was 
purchasing a conventional annuity. The advantages of an annuity were described as being 
(among other things) their simplicity, the security of income for life and that they can provide 
a spouses pension. The disadvantages included the structure being fixed at the outset, the 
capital sum being handed over to the annuity provider and that once established only 
divorce can now undo an annuity. It also explained mortality gain whereby those who die 
early effectively subsidise those who live longer.
Mr W became eligible to start taking benefits from the B scheme when he turned 55, which 
was in February 2009. So JLT provided a further recommendation letter in December 2008 
which set out that Mr W intended to stop work at 65 and required net income of around 
£40,000, by which point he hoped to have accrued a cash sum of around £420,000 with 
which to supplement his income. As Mr W already had around £210,000 at the time JLT 
advised him against taking the tax-free cash lump sum from the B scheme. Instead they 
recommended he maximise his contributions to his current employers GPP to benefit from 
the tax relief as the best way of boosting his income in retirement.  
In terms of the G scheme, valued at around £268,000, JLT set out four options:
Do nothing and leave it invested in the current fund;
Transfer the funds to another scheme;
Take the benefits as an annuity and tax-free cash
Take the benefits more flexibly by investing the capital after releasing the tax-free 
cash.  
JLT didnt think it would be in Mr Ws best interests to take the tax-free cash or an annuity 
with the provider. But to avoid an exit penalty and the application of a market-value 
adjustment they recommended he transfer the funds to another scheme where theyd be 
invested in line with his risk profile. 
Mr W didnt follow this advice, but instead decided to release the maximum tax-free cash of 
just over £67,000 and use the remaining £210,000 to utilise the open market option (OMO) 
to purchase an annuity with a firm which is now part of provider A. He opted for a joint life 
annuity with a ten-year guarantee period. This met his objective of ensuring his wife had 
sufficient annual income should he pass away. The annuity was set up and payments 
commenced on 25 February 2009.
Sadly in 2015 Mr W and his wife divorced and their financial settlement was by way of a 
consent order. So Mr W contacted A to ask if he could amend the joint life annuity to single 
life, as he no longer wished his ex-wife to benefit from it. A said amending the annuity was 
only possible if he had a pension sharing order, a consent order wasnt sufficient.
Mr W complained as he believed the advice provided by JLT said an annuity could be 
amended after divorce. JLT said theyd advised Mr W based on his circumstances at the 
time, amending an annuity was at the providers discretion, and Mr W had been given 30-
day cancellation rights which he didnt exercise. They concluded that even if Mr W had 
known at the time an annuity couldnt be amended they didnt think this would have deterred 
him from the purchase. So Mr W referred his complaint to this service saying the judge had 
awarded his pension and investments to him as part of the divorce settlement so his ex-wife 
shouldnt benefit.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it as Mr W agreed he 
wouldnt have acted differently if hed known an annuity couldnt be amended, as in 2009 he 
hadnt anticipated becoming divorced. But he still didnt accept the outcome  he pointed out 
the divorce rate is particularly high in his industry so didnt think the JLT advisor had acted in 
his best interests.  As agreement couldnt be reached the case has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand Mr W will be disappointed so let me 
explain why.Firstly I should make clear Mr Ws annuity is provided by A and it has explained to him that it 
can only change his annuity contract with a pension sharing order. Mr W doesnt have that, 
his divorce was settled by way of a consent order which A is not prepared to act on. Thats a 
decision A is entitled to make.
But A wasnt involved in Mr W deciding which annuity to purchase. As far as I can see from 
the point of sale paperwork, Mr W was assisted in utilising the OMO and purchasing a joint 
life annuity with A by an advisor from JLTs annuity bureau. The advice given would be 
based on Mr Ws circumstances and objectives at the time. And his main objective was to 
provide a certain level of income for himself in retirement and to his then wife in the event he 
passed away.
When Mr W completed the annuity application form which he and his wife signed on 6 
February 2009 it included information about their ages, health and smoker status. As 
actuaries wouldve taken account of this specific information when providing their quotes, so 
the pension benefits were therefore based on information relating to both Mr W and his then 
wife. The confirmation document from A came with a warning that the plan cannot be cashed 
in at any time, it set out the amount hed receive, the ten-year guarantee period and the 
terms including what happens if Mr W or his wife died first. It doesnt mention that the 
annuity can be amended on divorce. It also included a page headed in capitals Your right to 
think over your options which explained Mr W could cancel within 30 days if he changed his 
mind. It went on WARNING Once you have bought your pension annuity there is no further 
opportunity to cancel after this period. So Mr W was aware before he went ahead that 
despite what JLTs briefing information said, his annuity contract didnt mention any right to 
amend it in the event of divorce. 
Mr W isnt saying he only purchased a joint annuity because JLT gave him the impression 
that should he get divorced sometime in the future the contract could be unwound. He 
agrees that at the time he didnt anticipate hed get divorced so providing for that eventuality 
wouldnt have been a priority for him then. But he thinks A should be bound by the sentence 
in JLTs pension options document. As this gives the impression that while an annuity is 
generally an irrevocable contract, divorce allows it to be amended. 
So Ive looked carefully at the document JLT provided Mr W with its letter dated 11 
November 2008. Its headed Options for taking an income from pension contracts and the 
first paragraph reads The details supplied are for information only and do not constitute a 
recommendation. The letter described the document as a briefing and included a sentence 
You will appreciate this is for information only and should not be regarded as a 
recommendation. So I dont think its fair to say JLT advised Mr W to purchase an annuity or 
that this information formed part of any contract. It simply provided him with information to 
help him consider his options. 
The paragraph about conventional annuities does include among the list of disadvantages 
that only divorce can now undo an annuity. I dont agree with Mr W that he could rely on 
this as confirmation hed be able to undo an annuity contract should he need to. At this point 
Mr W hadnt decided to purchase an annuity or which provider to purchase it from. The OMO 
allows people to consider the rates, benefits and terms available from a range of providers 
across the market to source the one which best suits their circumstances. So it wouldnt be 
possible for JLT to say that whichever provider Mr W chose hed definitely be able to amend 
he terms of the contract should he get divorced in the future.  I think the paragraph aimed to 
explain that annuities are secure but restrictive and inflexible. Like the investigator I think this 
section could have made clear that any amendments to an annuity contract are at the 
discretion of the provider. But Mr W had the opportunity to review the terms of the contract 
he was entering in to, clear up any questions before proceeding and to cancel within 30 days if he changed his mind. After which point the contract cannot be altered, (although A would 
act on a pension sharing order). 
Mr W says people working in his industry have a higher than average divorce rate, so the 
advisor had a duty of care to protect his interests. I dont think the advisor, would necessarily 
be aware of the comparative divorce rates in various sectors. But Mr W had specifically 
asked about ensuring his then wife had a particular level of income should he pass away. So 
I wouldnt expect the advisor to raise the possibility of divorce if Mr W hadnt done so. 
I do understand Mr Ws concern if his pension provision wasnt fully accounted for in the 
divorce settlement. But thats not something I can hold JLT responsible for. Nor can I require 
JLT or provider A to unwind an annuity contract which has been in payment for more than a 
decade. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman