DRN-1737765
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National,) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To make things simpler, Ill just refer in my decision to Santander as the seller from now on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI whilst arranging a mortgage that started in August 2002. The 
policy protected their mortgage repayments if Mrs H was unable to work as a result of 
unemployment. Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. 
Based on information about Mrs Hs work circumstances indicating that she was employed 
on a fixed term contract, our adjudicator felt that the circumstances in which she could make 
an unemployment claim were quite limited. She thought that if Santander had explained this 
to Mr and Mrs H, then it was unlikely they wouldve wanted the PPI. 
And so our adjudicator felt Mr and Mrs H probably wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd 
understood this at the time - and that Mr and Mrs H had lost out as theyd been paying for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that Mrs Hs work situation 
would've been fully discussed before the PPI was recommended and it disagreed that the 
policy wasnt suitable. Santander said that given Mrs Hs circumstances, the policy wording 
showed that her employment wouldve been classed as "full time employment" rather than 
"fixed term contract". So Mrs H wouldnt have been caught by the policy exclusions and 
there wasnt any reason to uphold this complaint.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, Im not planning to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs H. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs H or Santander to have kept this. 
And the fact that Santander cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H told us that the PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed. But it would be 
completely understandable if Mr and Mrs H mightve forgotten some of the details of this sale 
as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs H say isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold their complaint.
Where theres only limited information I have to look at everything Ive been told and sent 
and decide what I think is most likely.
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H would've understood that 
having PPI was their choice. Theres nothing mentioned in the mortgage application they 
completed (which Ive seen) thats likely to have made them think they had to have PPI. And 
they wouldve had to apply separately for the cover if they wanted to have it.
I havent seen how Mr and Mrs H applied for PPI. But it looks like Mrs H must have filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage. I say this because 
she received a letter (the welcome letter) in June 2002, shortly after applying for the 
mortgage, which said Thank you for choosing Paymentcare to protect your mortgage 
payments (this is what Santander called its PPI).
And I think there mustve been some discussion about the cover when Mr and Mrs H were 
deciding if they wanted it, because they selected limited cover only. So I think its likely that 
when they opted just for unemployment cover for Mrs H this reflected their wishes at the 
time. 
On balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs H that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI - and it was added to the account when they chose the cover 
they wanted to have. 
As Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H it needed to sell them a policy that 
was suitable for their needs.  
The policy seems to have been right for Mr and Mrs H based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time. 
She was eligible for the policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out a benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
unemployment claim  and repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs H with long 
term cover whilst they were paying for their home. 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed lost her 
job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Having PPI is more dependable than relying on other people to help out in the event of 
money problems. 
So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if Mrs H lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Santander said it did explain everything Mr and Mrs H needed to know about the policy. But 
given that theres disagreement about this, Ive approached this complaint on the basis that 
its possible Santander didnt point out all the features of the policy that wouldve mattered to 
Mr and Mrs H. 
Mrs H had been employed for a number of years on fixed terms contracts that she said were 
renewed every year. 
So, I've thought very carefully about whether Mrs Hs work circumstances made the policy 
unsuitable for her.Under this particular policy, it says a fixed term contract is:
When you are working for at least 16 hours a week, receiving a salary or wages and paying 
the appropriate National Insurance contributions under a contract of employment which has 
a known or implied finish date and is not included in the definition of full-time employment.
And looking at the policy wording in the definition of full-time employment it says:
When you are working for at least 16 hours a week, receiving a salary or wages and paying 
the appropriate National Insurance contributions under either:
 a contract of employment that does not have a known or implied finish date, or
 a renewable fixed term contract which has been arranged with the same employer for at 
least 12 months, has been renewed at least once and which at the start date you expect to 
continue to be renewed.
So I think that Mrs Hs job probably met these requirements and its reasonable for 
Santander to say that she would've been treated as being in full time employment if shed 
needed to make a claim.
I say this because Mrs H had been working on fixed term contracts arranged with the same 
employer for well over 12 months. And I've seen nothing to make me think that she wasnt 
expecting her contract shortly to be renewed - as it had been during the previous four years 
or so that shed been working for her employer. 
This means that I dont think theres any reason why Mrs Hs work circumstances wouldve 
made it any harder to her to make a claim for unemployment under the policy than it 
would've been for a person who was in permanent full time employment.  
So, when taking out the PPI, I dont think Mr and Mrs H would've had any reason to think her 
work circumstances would be likely to impact on her being able to claim on the policy. And I 
dont think its likely that Mrs H being employed under a series of fixed term contracts that 
had been renewed every year for some years - and she expected that arrangement to 
continue - made the policy unsuitable for her. 
It doesnt look like Mrs H was affected by any of the other policy terms that mightve limited 
the policys benefit to Mr and Mrs H. So I don't think its likely that having clearer information 
about the circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve made any difference to 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision to take it out to cover Mrs H.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs H when they took out this 
insurance. But the cost of the policy was shown on the Schedule sent with the welcome 
letter when the policy was set up and Mrs H couldve queried it then if she decided this 
wasnt something she wanted to pay for. 
From what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that Mrs H didnt receive that welcome 
letter  and it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs H queried any of the information in it at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
And they wouldve signed an instruction form to their bank to cover the cost. So it seems 
they were happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
This is a policy they paid for each month so they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they decided they no longer wanted to pay for it.  Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give back to Mr and Mrs H some of the 
commission they paid for the policy. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance 
dont apply to mortgage agreements that ended before 6 April 2008. As this mortgage that 
Mr and Mrs H had with Santander ended before that date, the rules dont apply. So 
Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid as a result of 
the PPI taken out.
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments on what I've said in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman