DRN-4507475
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (BMF) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMF. He paid a deposit of £500, and the agreement was for £7,295 over 48 months; 
with monthly payments of £189.58. At the time of supply, the car was almost six and a half 
years old and had done 58,000 miles (according to the MOT record for 14 September 2022).
Mr S complained to BMF on 16 October 2022 about issues he was having with the car  
there was a severe bias in the steering that he thought might be related to a tyre that kept 
deflating; the parking sensors only worked sporadically; the air conditioning wasnt working 
properly; the car didnt have the advertised ApplePlay or rear camera; and stereo controls on 
the steering wheel didnt always work. He said the dealership had asked him to get the car 
repaired under warranty, but he asked to reject the car.
The car broke down on 30 October 2022 and Mr S had to call a breakdown company. 
However, the electrics continued to fail, so Mr S didnt think he could safely drive the car. 
The car was taken back to the dealership for repair on 24 November 2022 and returned to 
Mr S on 9 December 2022. The same day he complained to BMF that the steering problem 
remained. This was followed up by a further complaint in April 2023 that the parking sensors 
had failed again, the air conditioning was still not working correctly, and there was white 
smoke coming from the exhaust.
Repairs to the AdBlue system were carried out, which resolved the smoking exhaust, but Mr 
S again complained to BMF that the parking sensors werent working. BMF arranged for the 
car to be inspected by an independent engineer. This inspection took place on 17 May 2023, 
and the engineer said the tyres displayed signs of wear that could be the cause of the 
steering issue (which was slightly off-centre when driving); and the climate control and 
parking sensors werent working.
The engineer concluded it is impossible to state if the symptoms were present at the point 
of sale. Failure of the parking sensors could be the result of a sudden electrical fault and the 
air conditioning issue may be just that the air conditioning requires servicing as part of 
normal in-service maintenance and having to adjust the steering wheel is a minor issue and 
would not affect vehicle be considered fit for purpose even if present at point of sale.
BMF had issued their response to Mr Ss complaint before the independent engineers 
report, and they didnt comment on this. So, Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was a fault with the car that was present from when it 
was supplied to Mr S, and this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. Because there had 
already been a failed repair to the car, the investigator said that Mr S should now have the 
right to reject. So, the investigator recommended that BMF take back the car, end the 
agreement, refund the deposit Mr S paid, and refund him two weeks payments for the time 
he was without a car in late 2022.
Mr S agreed with the investigator, but BMF didnt. They said Mr S had travelled 10,000 miles 
in the car since he acquired it, and it had passed an MOT in October 2023. They also said 
the independent engineer had said it wasnt possible to say if the faults were present when 
the car was supplied to Mr M, and the steering issue didnt prevent the car from being fit for 
purpose. So, they didnt think Mr S should be able to reject the car.
Because BMF didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMF 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMF can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr S to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask BMF to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 17 May 2022. The key parts of 
this report have already been quoted above. However, Ive also seen the breakdown report 
from 30 October 2022; the substantive correspondence between Mr S, BMF, and the 
dealership about the faults with the car, dating back to October 2022; and the photo 
evidence Mr S has provided which shows theres still faults with the car.
While the independent engineer has said its not possible to confirm the faults with the car 
werent present or developing when it was supplied to Mr S, the additional evidence confirms 
the faults were present from a few weeks after the car was supplied. Under the CRA, its for BMF to show these faults werent present or developing at the point of supply, and they 
havent done so. As such, and based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied, and that 
these faults remain.
Ive also noted the independent engineer has said the steering fault wouldnt mean the car 
wasnt fit for purpose, even if it was present when the car was supplied (which, as Ive 
already said, Im satisfied it was). However, the engineer doesnt make the same comments 
about the other faults. And Im satisfied the electrical fault which means that the car 
occasionally loses power and means that the driver assist functions dont always work, 
would make the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for BMF  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
Its clear from the evidence that the dealership attempted a repair in late 2022, and that this 
repair has failed  the faults they attempted to fix still remain. The CRA is also clear that, if 
the single chance at repair fails, then Mr S has the right of rejection. And, given the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that he should now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car was off the road and undrivable 
between 24 November and 8 December 2022, a period of 15 days. During this period, Mr S 
wasnt supplied with a courtesy car. As such, he was paying for goods he was unable to use. 
As, for the reasons already stated, Im satisfied the car was off the road due to it being of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as BMF failed to keep Mr S mobile; Im 
satisfied they should refund the payments he made during this period. However, as Mr S has 
been able to use the car outside of these dates, he should pay for this, and no other monthly 
payments should be refunded.
Therefore, BMF should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ss credit file;
refund the £500 deposit Mr S paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds paid 
through a dealer contribution, BMF is entitled to retain that proportion of the deposit);
refund the equivalent to 15 days payments from the payment Mr S made in 
December 2022; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr S made 
the payment to the date of the refund.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires BMF to take off tax from this interest. BMF must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd. And 
they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman