DRN-3807994
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund payments she made after
falling victim to a scam.
Ms Cs complaint was brought by a representative. However, as the account is in Ms Cs
name, Ill refer to her throughout the decision.
What happened
In August 2020, after receiving numerous phone calls trying to get her to invest, Ms C
decided to invest £250 in cryptocurrency. Ms C invested with a firm Ill refer to as B.
Ms C says that after she made the initial investment, she received calls from B trying to get
her to increase her investment. But she decided not to invest further and ignored their calls.
In October 2021, Ms C received a call from someone supposedly working for B. She was
told that due to the increase in cryptocurrency values her £250 investment was now worth
£16,000. Ms C says she hadnt been following her investment or cryptocurrency prices but
had heard that prices had increased. Ms C was told in order to claim her £16,000
investment, she needed to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange. Ms C says the
scammer talked her through the process and she opened the account. Ms C says she was
pressured into acting quickly, with B telling her that if she didnt claim her funds they would
be lost.
Having opened the cryptocurrency account, Ms C was then told she had to pay a £2,000
deposit, which would be returned to her with the withdrawal of the £16,000. Ms C wanted to
check that her cryptocurrency account worked and that she could access any funds paid into
it, so she sent an initial payment of £100 which she immediately withdrew. Satisfied that she
could withdraw funds she paid the £2,000 deposit on 13 October 2021 by sending money
from her HSBC account to her cryptocurrency account and then onto the scammer. Ms C
was then convinced that she had to pay further fees. So, Ms C made a further payment the
same day, again from her HSBC account to her cryptocurrency account and then onto the
scammer, for £3,000.
The second payment of £3,000 flagged with HSBCs fraud detection system and they called
Ms C to discuss the payment.
Following their discussion, HSBC were satisfied that Ms C wasnt at risk of falling victim to a
scam and released her payment. Minutes later Ms C made a further payment to the
scammer for £5,000. So, in total, Ms C made three payments totalling £10,000.
Ms C was told that her funds would be paid out to her cryptocurrency account on 18 October
2021. When the funds didnt arrive, she realised shed been the victim of a scam and called
HSBC to raise a fraud claim.
HSBC investigated Ms Cs fraud claim but declined to refund her. They told Ms C that as she
sent funds to an account held in her name with a cryptocurrency exchange, the loss hadnt
occurred when the funds left her HSBC account - so they werent liable to refund her.
Ms C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms C complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator referred to
the call Ms C had with HSBC when the second payment of £3,000 triggered their fraud
detection system. The investigator felt the HSBC staff member had asked multiple questions
and provided information about relevant scams which ought to have caused Ms C concern,
however Ms C continued with the payment regardless.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigators opinion saying:
The bank didnt ask open or probing questions, which they shouldve.
The way the bank rattled through a load of things, it would be very difficult for a
normal person to understand the warnings.
The questions the bank asked werent relevant to what was obviously a
cryptocurrency scam.
As Ms C disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 9 November 2022 I issued a provisional decision as I intended to reach a different 
outcome than the investigator had. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Should HSBC have prevented Ms C from making the payments?
In total Ms C made three payments, these were for £2,000, £3,000 and £5,000.
Im not satisfied based on Ms Cs previous account usage that the first payment shouldve
been flagged by HSBC as concerning. I say this because she had previously made
payments out of her account for £5,000, £4,000 and just over £1,000. So, Im not satisfied
that this payment of £2,000 was particularly unusual or out of character.
However, HSBC did flag the second payment of £3,000. As a result, HSBC called Ms C to
discuss the payment and make sure she wasnt at risk of financial harm from falling victim to
a scam.
Having listened to the call Ms C had with HSBC, Im not satisfied HSBC went far enough in
their questioning, and believe they missed the opportunity to prevent Ms C from making
further payments as part of the scam.In the call, the HSBC staff member asked the purpose of the payment and Ms C told them
she was buying bitcoins. She was then asked if she had opened the account she was
sending the money to, and she confirmed she had. There were some questions around
which bank the account was held with and its clear that Ms C didnt understand how to
answer this, as the account was with a cryptocurrency exchange  not a traditional bank.
The staff member also seemed confused and moved away from this question without fully
exploring who the account was held with and what Ms C understood about the
cryptocurrency account she had opened. Ms C was asked how long she had been doing
this, referring to buying bitcoins, and she said only recently and that it was recommended by
friends. She then asked why this was important. Instead of probing, the staff member told
her hed explain later on.
At the point Ms C made these payments, HSBC were well aware of cryptocurrency
investment scams and how they work. And the script that the staff member was following,
was trying to identify if Ms C might be at risk of this type of scam. As part of it the staff
member read out some information about cryptocurrency scams, saying criminals advertise
on social media, will phone, text or email you unexpectedly and often look professional.
However, there was little real probing or open questioning, even when Ms C was clearly
unsure of what she was investing in. This is particularly concerning as I think more probing
wouldve quickly identified that Ms C was the victim of a scam. I appreciate that Ms C said
she was referred to the investment by a friend, but she didnt have a cover story and
wouldnt have been unable to explain how the cryptocurrency investment worked, or even
how her cryptocurrency account worked. I also think further questioning about the payments
she was making, why she was making two separate payments, is likely to have uncovered
that she was paying fees to release an investment  which wouldve concerned HSBC.
Also, as part of the discussion, the staff member referred to fraudsters closing an account
and refusing to release the funds or asking for fees before the funds were released. And Im
conscious that this directly relates to Ms Cs circumstances. But this information was part of
a larger amount of information the staff member read out quite quickly and it wasnt given in
a clear manner. The staff member also moved quickly onto emphasising that if Ms C was the
victim of a scam, she wouldnt get her money back. The inability to recover her funds was
emphasised several times and felt like the core component of the warning. I think the staff
member referring to fees being requested before funds are released shouldve caused Ms
C to pause, which Ill discuss shortly when I look at whether Ms C took reasonable steps to
mitigate her loss. But Im not satisfied that the scam warning was clear enough, or discussed
in a way that satisfies me that HSBC had an appropriate conversation with Ms C. HSBC
were the professionals in this situation and shouldve identified the clear warning signs that
Ms C was the victim of a scam.
Overall, Im not satisfied that HSBC appropriately questioned and probed Ms C, and believe
if they had they wouldve uncovered the scam preventing Ms C from making the second and
third payments. On that basis, and subject to what I say below, HSBC should refund Ms C
for the second and third payments.
Could Ms C have done more to mitigate her loss?
But I also have to consider whether Ms C shouldve taken steps to mitigate her loss, and I
think she shouldve.
In this case, Ms C did a test payment of £100 to her cryptocurrency account and was able to
immediately withdraw the funds, which she says fed into the legitimacy of what she was
being told by the scammers. But there were a number of red flags that shouldve concerned
her and caused her to do further checks before making the payments. These include:I cant see that Ms C checked or had any confirmation that her £250 investment had
grown to £16,000  outside of her being told this by the scammer. I also cant see
any contracts or written confirmation of what B were charging her for in relation to the
fees she was paying. I would expect something in writing to confirm what Ms C was
being told.
If Ms C had an investment worth £16,000, it seems unlikely that she would have to
pay fees to release the funds. I accept that she was told the first payment was a
deposit and would be refunded, but Im not satisfied that she was given a reasonable
explanation as to why she had to pay a further £8,000 in order to access her
investment. I also cant see that Ms C questioned why these funds couldnt be taken
out of her investment funds.
During the call with HSBC, Ms C was given some information which fitted with the
circumstances she was experiencing and what the fraudsters were asking her to do.
She asked why the staff member wanted to know how long shed been buying
bitcoins for. Also, the staff member described how fraudsters will ask for fees before
they will release funds. I wouldve expected Ms C to have some concerns after this
conversation and to have done some research or checks on the information she had
been given.
Based on this, Im not satisfied that Ms C did sufficient checks before making the second
and third payments. So, I think its fair for Ms C to share the responsibility for her loss with
HSBC, and only ask HSBC to refund 50% of the second and third payments. As the funds
Ms C sent to the scammer came from her Future Saver account, HSBC should pay interest
on the refund at the rate applicable to that account, calculated from the date Ms C made the
payments until the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint.
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund Ms C 50% of her second and third payments
Pay interest on that refund at the Future Saver account interest rate, calculated from
the date the payments were made until the date of settlement.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both HSBC and Ms C responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to reach 
a different outcome than I did in the provisional decision. Therefore, HSBC should refund 
50% of the second and third payments and pay interest on that refund at the account interest 
rate.Putting things right
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Refund Ms C 50% of her second and third payments
Pay interest on that refund at the Future Saver account interest rate, calculated from
the date the payments were made until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and require them 
to compensate Ms C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman