DRN-3410654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money they lost as 
a result of a scam.
The account used to facilitate the payments is held, jointly, in Mr and Mrs Ss name but the 
scam only involved Mr S, so I will refer to him throughout unless I am addressing a point 
raised specifically by Mrs S.
What happened
At the time of the scam, Mr S was in his eighties and an experienced investor with a number 
of years worth of experience. In 2004, he had purchased 8,000 shares in a company, which, 
for the purposes of this decision, I will refer to as Company Q. But he hadnt received any 
dividends or had any contact with Company Q since. 
In December 2018, Mr S was contacted by another company who purportedly wanted to sell 
the shares hed bought in Company Q. I will refer to this company as Company M. We now 
know Company M was operating as a scam. However, this was unbeknown to Mr S at the 
time. 
Company M told Mr S that the 8,000 shares he had originally bought now amounted to 
80,000 shares and were worth a considerable sum. They said theyd obtained a contract to 
take over the shares and sell them on behalf of Company Q. Company M then offered to 
purchase the shares from Mr S for $117,000 but at some point during the scam, this later 
increased to over 1.5 million. Mr S said he carried out some research on Company M and 
found they were a genuine company based in Argentina. And so he felt reassured.
As shown in the table below, throughout the course of the scam, Mr S made numerous 
payments to Company M and he doesnt now remember the reason for all of them. He thinks 
he was paying for various fees and admin issues. Mr S has also provided us with some of 
the emails shared between him and Company M. The emails detail multiple reasons for the 
on-going payments and the reasons provided by Company M as to why the funds from the 
sale were not forthcoming.   
Mr S made all of the scam payments in his local branch where he was familiar with the 
branch staff. Mr S said he told branch staff that he was making the payments for the 
purposes of an investment and that no further questions were asked beyond this - other than 
whether he was being pressured into making the payments. Mr S said he wasnt.
By November 2020, Mr S realised he had been the victim of a scam and contacted Lloyds. 
Mr S said he now realised the payments had all the hallmarks of a scam and that they 
shouldve been questioned further by Lloyds before they were allowed to leave his and Mrs 
Ss account. 
Mrs S also complained that the account was held in joint names with her, but she wasnt 
aware of any of the transactions requested by Mr S and Lloyds had done nothing to bring 
them to her attention or obtain her agreement to them leaving the account. Mrs S said had 
she known about the transactions; she wouldve stopped them. Mrs S also pointed out that 
she required large print statements, but these werent provided by Lloyds so it was difficult 
for her to monitor the activity on the account.  
As the scam involves a large number of high value transactions over a significant period, I 
have included a table of all of the relevant transactions below. The transactions that form 
part of the scam are highlighted in bold.  The table also includes other things that I feel are 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. Specifically, I have quoted some of the 
conversations that took place between Mr S and the fraudulent Company M:
Date Type of transaction / Location Amount Reason for scam 
payment 
25/09/18 Debit from the account - 
£364,621.79n/a
19/11/18 Debit from the account - £100,000 n/a
Around 
02 or 
03/12/18
03/12/18Mr S is unexpectedly cold-called by 
Company M
Mr S expresses some concerns to 
Company M
Concerning (Company Q) shares 
the certificate doesnt seem to 
coincide with the information youve 
provided. The original certificate 
purchased on 17 December 2004 
shows the shares as 8,000 shares. 
There has been no contact with 
(Company Q) since that date so 
please advise why there is such a 
difference in the number of shares?
05/12/18 £50,000 debit from the account x2 n/a
18/12/18 Mr S expresses some concerns to 
Company M
Am I to understand that I need to 
transfer funds to an unknown party 
to Honk Kong, why? Im now being 
the bearer of funds to someone Ive 
never previously heard of, please 
explain.
18/12/18 Internal transfer into account £10,000 n/a
18/12/18 International payment to Hong 
Kong£5,866.54 Stock purchase 
in line with 
acquisition from 
one company to 
another  sale of 
shares to new 
company
16/01/19 Internal transfer into account £25,000 N/a
16/01/19 International payment to £21,208.23 Payment in order Hong Kong to lift restriction 
on shares in the 
belief $283,000 
will be received. 
The fraudster 
initially says the 
funds arent 
received but later 
confirms receipt. 
28/1/19 Mr S expresses some concerns to 
Company M
My bank is the receiving bank. Are 
you sure you know what you are 
saying? My bank advised me that it 
is the bank that raised the cheque 
that has to originate the track or 
search. Im now confused over the 
whole project, do I need to go back 
to X for clarity, or is this some 
scheme to confuse me?
6/2/19 Mr S expresses some concerns to 
Company M
I cannot comprehend what is going 
on. Am I the victim of some 
international scam? Firstly, Im 
asked by (Company M) to forward a 
sum of $7,200 to X on 18/12/18 and 
a further $26,400 to the same 
destination on 16/01/19  and now 
a further $78,400. I feel that this is 
unbelievable but leave it in your 
hands as there is no chance of 
further funds being dispatched  as 
theyre not available.
11/02/19 Mr S expresses some concerns to 
Company M
Thanks for your email but when 
does this fiasco end? I dont know if 
Im able to get a loan to meet your 
current needs. Forget everything 
and I reclaim all the costs I have 
already submitted. The sale of my 
Company Q shares seems to be an 
endless squeeze to obtain money 
without any guaranteed return.
12/02/19 Internal transfer into account £35,000 N/a
14/02/19 International payment to The 
Philippines £31,397.68 Regulators 
decided that all 
shareholders 
should pay semi-
annual withholding tax 
deposit  but it 
will be refunded 
21 days after 
receiving major 
pay-out
25/03/19 Internal transfer into account £65,000 N/a
26/03/19 Internal transfer into account £10,000 N/a
26/03/19 International payment to
Hong Kong (not the same 
account as previous payments to 
Hong Kong)£30,960.25 Director of 
Company Q 
illegally put 
shares in family 
members names 
 his shares were 
vital to finalising 
the acquisition 
and without them 
the deal would 
fall apart. 
Regulators put 
payments on hold 
as a result. Eight 
shareholders 
need to raise 
$640,000. 
Mr S encouraged 
to speak to other 
shareholders.
Mr S is asked to 
make 2 separate 
payments 
totalling $80,000 
on separate days 
due to transfer 
agents only 
insured for max 
of $50K. Mr S 
makes 1st 
payment.
26/03/19 Internal transfer into account £100,000 N/a
27/03/19 International payment to
Singapore£30,990.94
Fifth 
paymentMr S makes 2nd 
payment
13/05/19 Payment bounced back into 
account(£30,696.34)
14/05/19 International payment £31,688.19 New payment but 
unsure of reason. 
We only have 
payment 
instruction.08/08/19 International payment £38,818.57 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
09/08/19 International payment £37,300.78 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
16/08/19 Payment bounced back into 
account(£38,818.57)
22/08/19 International payment £38,812.01 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
02/09/19 Payment bounced back into the 
account (£36,342.21)
03/09/19 International payment £37,494.67 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
06/11/19 Mr S expresses some concerns to 
who he thinks is a fellow 
shareholder
I hope you do not mind me 
contacting you. I have been in a 
dilemma about these shares for 
some considerable time, so I have 
been given your details by 
Company M. Every time that they 
are about to be paid out there 
seems to be a reason why more 
funds are required by the 
shareholders in the UK to release 
them. I have often considered the 
sale procedure to be an 
international scam so having paid 
out a considerable sum over the last 
year I am very wary over the latest 
request for a further $120,000 to 
close the deal. I have been advised 
that you completed the deal with 
Company M and could possibly put 
my mind at ease on having 
completed the deal.
13/11/19 International payment £39,124.88 Unable to 
determine the 
reason 
14/11/19 International payment £38,301.95 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
18/11/19 International payment £18,410.31 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
27/02/20 International payment £39,621.29 Unable to 
determine the 
reason27/02/20 International payment £39,713.49 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
19/03/20 International payment £22,424.31 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
15/04/20 International payment £15,494.54 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
30/06/20 International payment £15,000 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
26/10/20 International payment 
(this payment is almost entirely 
recovered by the bank)£5,182.48 Unable to 
determine the 
reason
29/11/20 Mr S realises hes been the victim of 
a scam
What Lloyds has told us
Lloyds declined to offer Mr and Mrs S a refund. It says it processed the payments at Mr Ss 
request and it was Mr Ss responsibility to have carried out the necessary due diligence and 
independent checks before requesting the payments be made. It said its branch staff 
remembered discussing the payments with Mr S and they had confirmed theyd followed the 
correct procedures and discussed potential scams with Mr S at the time. Branch staff also 
said they knew Mr S and that all the payments were approved by a manager. One of the 
managers provided the following testimony: 
When I arrived working at X branch, Mr S was a regular customer. I met Mr S on 
occasion and he explained to me he was retired, but spent his time investing in stocks. I 
can absolutely confirm that on each payment occasion, regardless of how frequently they 
were made, Mr S was questioned as to why he was sending the payment. Mr S explained 
he was investing in stocks and shares, and on each occasion, I discussed that this could be 
a potential scam. Mr S reassured me that this was a company he had carried out due 
diligence on himself, and he had been investing for many, many years so was fully aware 
of the scams and he assured me that investing was something he had done for a long time.
Mr S was always friendly and open, and would happily go into detail about what he was 
investing in and explained this was something he was passionate about and had done over 
many years, hence why as a member of staff, I was reassured when Mr S explained this to 
me and also assured me he had carried out independent checks on the companies he was 
investing in before proceeding.

Due to time elapsed, I cannot confidently say whether or not a scam leaflet was handed 
out.
My initial concern with Mr S would have been due to sending a large amount overseas, and 
this would be why I would have spoken to the customer myself. This is what led to having 
an in depth conversation with Mr S in which he explained the purpose was to buy shares as 
he was an avid investor, and after I questioned how he had identified the company to invest in, he explained he chooses where he invests and then completes due diligence on them. 
Again I cannot be certain but I can recall on one occasion Mr S had explained he had 
contacted the company register in Argentina (I am talking from memory so could be 
incorrect). I always discuss potential scams, and I remember Mr S being very thorough in 
detail explaining what he was investing in and that investing was something he had always 
done.
Banking Protocol was not considered as there was not a concern based on the 
reassurance and openness from Mr S. As a Private banking customer, and Mr Ss 
explanation that he had always invested, this did not seem out of character for this profile of 
customer.
Lloyds went on to say that as the funds were held jointly and had been authorised by Mr S, 
it was not required to contact or get the consent of the other account holder, in this case, 
Mrs S. It acknowledged that it failed to send Mrs S statements in a larger font, that there 
had been delays in addressing the complaint, and that two of the payments were reported  
later than they shouldve been and so it offered to pay £400 in compensation to say sorry 
for these errors. 
Unhappy, with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service with 
the help of a personal representative. One of our investigators looked into things and 
recommended that the complaint be partially upheld. She said that she didnt think the 
initial transactions were so unusual when compared to Mr and Mrs S prior account activity 
that Lloyds shouldve questioned Mr S about them before they agreed to process them on 
his behalf. However, she thought that by the fifth transaction, the activity had started to look 
somewhat suspicious and at this point, Lloyds shouldve asked Mr S some probing 
questions as to the purpose of the payments. Our investigator thought that had Lloyds 
questioned the transactions at this point, its likely that the scam wouldve come to light and 
the remaining transactions prevented. 
However, she also recognised that Mr S had significant concerns about the transfers he 
was being asked to make early on in the scam but despite these concerns, and without 
seeking to verify what he was being told with a trusted third-party, Mr S continued to send 
large amounts of money abroad. Because of this, our investigator thought Mr S had failed 
to take steps to mitigate his own losses. 
As she felt that both Mr S and Lloyds had played a part in the success of the scam, she 
recommended that Lloyds offer Mr and Mrs S a refund of 50% of the payments made from 
the fifth payment onwards. She felt this was the point from which Lloyds shouldve stepped 
in to question the continuing transactions. She went on to say that she felt 50% was a fair 
recommendation as this also reflected Mr Ss role in the success of the scam. Finally, she 
said that as the account was held in joint names, there was no requirement for Lloyds to 
have contacted Mrs S about the payments prior to their processing.
Both Lloyds and Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators opinion. 
Mr and Mrs S said that our investigator had failed to take into account Mr Ss age at the 
time of the scam and the fact this likely made him vulnerable. They said there were a 
number of things about the transactions that shouldve indicated to Lloyds that something 
was amiss here and that shouldve put them on notice that Mr S was at risk of potential 
harm from fraud - from the first transaction onwards, not the fifth. Specifically, they stressed 
the reason given for the payments was suspicious in and of itself; Mr S was being asked to 
send money in order to receive money - a common type of scam that the bank shouldve 
been aware of. They said all the transactions had been made to international accounts and 
to a number of new payees and they pointed out that Lloyds, as the industry expert, shouldve identified this was unusual and questioned Mr S about the payments before it 
agreed to process them on his behalf. 
They highlighted that Lloyds notes from the time suggested that no in-depth questioning 
took place. They also felt that it didnt make sense that having said Lloyds couldve 
prevented the scam from the fifth payment onwards, that Lloyds should only be held 
responsible for 50% of the loss from this point. 
Finally, they said that by not providing account statements in a larger font, Lloyds had 
failed in its duty of care to Mrs S and had prevented her from monitoring and putting a stop 
to the activity on the account.
Lloyds reiterated that prior to each transaction, a conversation was had with Mr S about the 
requested payment and it referred to the branch managers testimony I have set out above. 
It repeated that Mr S told Lloyds he was an experienced investor and that he had already 
carried out all of the necessary checks before making the payments. It went on to say that 
our investigator had applied too high a standard when considering how far Lloyds should 
have gone when questioning Mr S about the payments and it pointed to the Quincecare Duty 
and the judgment in Philipp vs. Barclays to support its position. It said the judgment set out 
that where a payment was authorised by a customer, there is limited scope to argue the 
bank has a duty of care to prevent the consequences of that payment. 
Finally, Lloyds said Mr S had real concerns about what he was being told from the outset, 
yet despite this, hed continued to send payments over a number of years without first 
checking what he had been told. For this reason, it thought Mr S should be liable for the 
success of the scam, not Lloyds.
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold it for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator has previously set out. However, before I go on to explain why, I want to say 
how very sorry I am to hear about whats happened to Mr and Mrs S and I want to express 
my sympathy for the situation they have found themselves in. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for Mr and Mrs S given the sums involved, but I dont think I can 
fairly say that Lloyds should reimburse them all of the money they unfortunately lost to the 
scammers. 
I also want to acknowledge the numerous submissions Mr and Mrs S, alongside their 
representative, have put forward in support of their complaint. Id like to assure them I have 
read all of their submissions in their entirety and considered everything they have sent in. 
However, I dont intend to respond in similar detail. Ive focussed on what I consider to be 
the key points and the crux of the complaint. And if I dont mention a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont 
feel the need to reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. Ive set out my 
reasoning below:In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
I am aware that Lloyds considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly but the circumstances of this complaint 
are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of 
regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow legal duties considered in that and 
other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position is that a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time) is an example of that.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, I am satisfied that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably 
take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
It is not in dispute that Mr S authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds, should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the initial transfers couldve been considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with Mr and Mrs Ss usual account activity. And, I 
dont think they were. I say this because Mr and Mrs S regularly used the account to process 
large transactions. For example, a transaction amounting to £364,621 left the account in 
September 2018. The first four payments amounted to significantly less than this, the highest amounting to £30,925.15. And so, Im not satisfied that, on the face of it, the initial 
transactions wouldve appeared unusual or suspicious to Lloyds when compared to Mr and 
Mrs S usual account activity. And so, I dont think there was a need for Lloyds to question 
these payments before it allowed them to leave the account and for this reason, I wont be 
asking it to refund them now. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S feel that the payments in question here shouldve stood out 
as unusual when compared to the previous high value transactions on the account. I 
understand that this is because all of the previous high value transactions were made to 
genuine companies in the UK, not abroad. They therefore feel that there is a clear distinction 
between the previous genuine payments and the scam payments. But I dont agree. The 
payments were all of high value and some were being made in respect of investments. And 
these similarities indicate that Mr and Mrs S had a propensity to make payments for 
considerable amounts from their account  some to investments. Im not satisfied that the 
payments being sent to international accounts was enough in and of itself to have prompted 
further discussions  especially in the context of Mr S being an experienced investor. And I 
havent seen any evidence that persuades me he was more likely than not vulnerable at the 
time either. And so, Im not persuaded that the initial transactions shouldve looked 
particularly unusual to Lloyds.
However, by the time the fifth payment is attempted, Im satisfied that Lloyds shouldve had 
some concerns. The transactions were starting to become more frequent and this was now 
the fourth new payee and the fourth international account. This payment was made just a 
day after a previous high-value transaction and it was for virtually the same amount. By this 
point, Im satisfied things shouldve started to look somewhat suspicious and Im satisfied 
that Lloyds shouldve fairly and reasonably have stepped in and questioned Mr S about this 
payment before it allowed it to leave his account. Ive taken on board what Lloyds has said 
about the conversation that it says took place in branch alongside the branch managers 
testimony, but, based on the limited information I have, Im not persuaded that this 
conversation likely went far enough. 
Mr and Mrs S have expressed concern that there are no contemporaneous notes from the 
time the payments were made to indicate what was discussed between Mr S and the branch 
manager. Theyve highlighted the testimony provided now is being put forward with the 
benefit of hindsight. However, I dont share this concern. The testimony indicates that there 
was a conversation about Mr Ss general investment experience, that he told Lloyds that he 
invested as a hobby and that he believed he had spoken to the financial services regulator in 
Argentina. Given that this mirrors what Mr S told this service, and its not clear how Lloyds 
wouldve known this information had a conversation not taken place, Im satisfied that the 
notes now provided are a relatively accurate reflection of what was discussed. However, 
having said the above, Im still not satisfied that this conversation went far enough. It seems 
to me that this was a general conversation about Mr S and his investment experience rather 
than a probing conversation about this particular investment itself. Lloyds as the industry 
expert are more familiar with the prevalence of this type of scam than the average layperson 
and shouldve been on the look-out for the common characteristics of well-known investment 
scams. And Im satisfied that had Lloyds questioned Mr S as to the purpose of this payment, 
rather than his overall investment experience, as I think it shouldve, a number of red-flags 
wouldve been identified.  
Lloyds shouldve enquired as to why Mr S had started to regularly send large sums of money 
abroad and why he was attempting to pay c£39,000 to an international account when hed 
made a similar payment the day before. Lloyds shouldve checked how Mr S had been 
contacted and enquired as to whether Mr S had checked that Company M was registered 
with the UK financial services regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It should have asked to see any documentation that Mr S had been sent that confirmed the legitimacy 
of the shares held and the payments he was now making. And crucially, it should have 
queried why Mr S was being asked to send money in order to receive money from the sale 
of his shares  which shouldve been of concern. 
Im satisfied that Mr S wouldve been honest with Lloyds about the situation he had found 
himself in had he been asked specific questions  he had not been provided with a cover 
story by the scammers and so he had no reason not to be. And given that the reason he was 
sending payments was, in and of itself suspicious, Im satisfied that Lloyds wouldve realised 
that what was happening to Mr S had all the hallmarks of a classic investment scam. Mr S 
had been cold-called by a company hed previously had no relationship with, he had been 
asked to send significant sums abroad in order to apparently secure his own funds and there 
was no documentation available to substantiate these claims. 
So, Im persuaded that Mr Ss likely answers to the above questions wouldve put Lloyds on 
notice that Mr S was falling victim to a scam. Im also persuaded that had any such 
conversation taken place, the spell wouldve been broken for Mr S. He wasnt being coached 
by the scammers and he appears to already have had significant concerns about what he 
was being told and asked to do. Overall, Im satisfied that had further specific probing 
questions been asked about the fifth payment, the scam wouldve been uncovered and any 
further loss wouldve been prevented. So, my starting position is that Lloyds should refund 
Mr and Mrs Ss loss from the fifth payment onwards. But that is not the end of the story. I 
then have to go on to consider whether Mr and Mrs S should also bear some responsibility 
for their overall losses also.
Should Mr and Mrs S bear some responsibility for the overall loss
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs S should also bear some responsibility for their losses 
and I think they should. Ill explain why.
Mr S was cold-called by Company M and hed had no previous relationship with them  hed 
purchased the shares now in discussion here from Company Q and there doesnt appear to 
be anything to suggest that the two companies in question were connected in anyway. Mr S 
had also originally purchased 8,000 shares, not 80,000, as Company M now said. And I can 
see that Mr S was somewhat confused by this  this was 10 times the amount he could 
recall purchasing and Im satisfied that this shouldve caused Mr S to question what he was 
being told. 
Im also satisfied that the fact Mr S was being asked to send money in order to receive the 
funds from the sale of these shares shouldve caused him some concern. As the seller in the 
transaction, Mr S should have been the receiver of funds, not the sender, and it remains 
unclear as to why he thought it was reasonable to send over £500,000 in order to receive 
funds from the sale of shares that were originally valued at around £100,000, having 
received nothing in return. The reasons for many of the later payments also remains unclear, 
but Mr S continued to make payments. 
Crucially, from very early on in the scam, and in more than one of his emails, Mr S appears 
to express concern that he might be falling victim to a scam. He specifically says Am I the 
victim of some international scam? and yet he continues to send large sums of money 
without seeking to independently verify what he is being told with a trusted source. It seems 
to me in the hope that what he was being told was legitimate having already sent a large 
sum of money, but in doing so, he also took the risk that it might not be.
Overall, Im satisfied that there were a number of things here that should have caused Mr S 
concern  he expresses as much himself. Yet he continued to make substantial payments even though he doesnt appear to have understood the reasons as to why. And Im satisfied 
that by continuing to make payments, Mr S has failed to mitigate his own losses and 
therefore any award now put forward should reflect that he should bear some responsibility 
for his loss alongside Lloyds. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S have found the finding that Lloyds couldve prevented the 
loss from the fifth payment onwards, yet are only having to return 50% of this loss, 
confusing. However, when deciding this case, any compensation award should fairly and 
reasonably reflect the role that each party played in respect of the success of the scam. For 
this reason, I am satisfied that the most fair and reasonable outcome is for Lloyds to refund 
50% of the loss from the fifth payment onwards - it couldve done more to prevent the 
success of the scam from the fifth payment onwards but at the same time, Mr S couldve 
done more too. And the redress put forward by our investigator reflects this.
Mrs Ss additional points
Finally, I understand that Mrs S wanted a complaint to be considered in her own name. This 
wont be possible. As this account is held in both hers and Mr Ss names, any complaint 
would need to be brought by them jointly, as it has been here.
Ive taken on board what Mrs S has said about not giving her consent to the payments, but 
as Ive said above, the account had a joint account mandate. This means that Lloyds didnt 
have to verify the payment requests of one account holder with the other. And there was no 
obligation for it to highlight the activity on the account either, as she has suggested. Joint 
accounts are designed to allow each account holder unrestricted access to the account 
without needing the permission of the other. And Im satisfied that Mrs S wouldve known 
this - the account appears to have been used regularly and both parties shouldve been 
aware that neither of them had been contacted to verify the others transactions throughout 
the life of the account. 
I am sorry to hear Mrs S wasnt aware that Mr S was making payments. And I also 
acknowledge that Lloyds have confirmed her statements were not sent to her in a larger 
font as she has requested. But I dont think this error means that Lloyds should offer her a 
refund of the scam payments now. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Mrs 
S being sent these statements wouldve more likely than not led to the prevention of this 
scam. She may well have chosen to rely on the fact that her husband felt the requests were 
legitimate - given that he was the one with the investment experience and appeared to 
manage the account. And so Im satisfied that the £400 Lloyds has already offered by way 
of an apology is fair and reasonable given all of the circumstances here. 
Summary
By the fifth payment, I think the very nature of the payments Mr S was making ought to have 
alerted branch staff that something wasnt right. I think the on-going transactions Mr S was 
asking to make were unusual enough to mean Lloyds ought to have taken additional steps to 
satisfy itself that Mr S wasnt at risk of being scammed. Overall, Im satisfied that had Lloyds 
taken the steps I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have taken, the scam wouldve been 
uncovered, and Mr S wouldnt have continued to make payments at all. That being said, it is 
clear that Mr S had significant concerns about the payments he was making and their 
legitimacy throughout the course of the scam. Its also clear that he didnt fully understand 
the reasons as to why he was expected to continue to make payments in order to receive his 
funds  and the reasons provided by the scammers dont appear to have been particularly 
plausible. Despite this, Mr S continued to send further funds and in doing so, failed to 
mitigate his ongoing losses and this should be reflected in the amount of redress now due. Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against 
Lloyds Bank Plc and I direct it to: 
pay Mr and Mrs S 50% of each payment made from the fifth payment onwards - 
deducting any amounts already recovered
apply interest at a rate of 8% simple to each 50% payment, from the date each 
payment left the account up until the date of settlement 
pay Mr and Mrs the £400 in compensation previously offered, if it hasnt already done 
so
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and I direct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay 
the redress Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman