DRN-3947579
The complaint
Mr M complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under his travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr M booked holiday accommodation in the UK online and bought a single 
trip travel insurance policy provided by Great Lakes at the same time. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ms father, who was also due to go on the trip, was diagnosed with cancer 
in May 2021. Mr M therefore cancelled the holiday and made a claim under his policy with 
Great Lakes. Mr Ms father, very sadly, subsequently passed away. 
Great Lakes said Mr Ms claim wasnt covered because his father didnt comply with the 
Health Conditions set out in the policy at the time it was purchased. Mr M disputed this, and 
Great Lakes then requested his fathers medical records. Great Lakes later declined the 
claim again for similar reasons. 
Unhappy, Mr M complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought Great 
Lakes should pay Mr Ms claim. She said she didnt think the sales process for the policy had 
been clear in setting out that pre-existing medical conditions werent covered. 
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint was referred to me. I made my 
provisional decision in January 2023. In it, I said:
Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances which led to this complaint, and Id like to 
offer Mr M and his family my sincere condolences for their loss. 
I dont agree with the findings our investigator reached but I intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint for other reasons. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes is the underwriter of this insurance and, therefore, is the business responsible 
for deciding whether a claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions. But Great 
Lakes didnt sell this policy. Instead, the policy was sold by an intermediary who is a 
separate and distinct business to Great Lakes. Great Lakes therefore isnt responsible for 
the sales process which Mr M followed when he bought the insurance. In this provisional 
decision, Im only considering the activities which Great Lakes, as the insurer, is responsible 
for  i.e., the decision to decline Mr Ms claim.  
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my provisional 
decision. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say: 
Health Conditions 
You must be able to comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of 
your policy. 
 
If you are traveling within the United Kingdom 
You are not required to declare your medical conditions. However, to be covered for 
any medical conditions you have or have had, you must be able to answer NO to 
questions 1 to 4  
 
4. Are you receiving or awaiting treatment for any bodily injury, illness or disease as 
a hospital day case or inpatient. 
Great Lakes says Mr Ms father didnt comply with this health condition as hed first sought 
medical attention for the illness which led to the claim in January 2021, before the policy was 
purchased. Great Lakes later said Mr Ms father didnt comply with the health condition 
because he was referred to a plastic surgeon for further investigations in February 2021, 
which was also before the policy was purchased. 
Mr M acknowledges that his father had been referred to a plastic surgeon when he bought 
the policy in March 2021 but says this referral was for tests/investigations  not for treatment 
 and that the Health Conditions set out in the policy wording only mention treatment. 
Great Lakes says it would deem being referred for investigations to be the exact same as 
awaiting treatment. 
I understand that Great Lakes may not wish to provide cover under this policy for someone 
who is awaiting investigations into a suspected illness. If thats the case, Id expect Great 
Lakes to clearly set this out in its policy wording. I note Great Lakes has made provision for 
this in the Health Conditions relating to non-UK travel. But the Health Conditions in relation 
to UK travel under Mr Ms policy dont refer to either investigations or to general referrals to 
a specialist. Instead, the Health Conditions for UK travel refer only to treatment. 
Ive considered the dictionary definitions of the words investigation and treatment, as well 
as what I consider to be the ordinary, everyday meaning of the words. Ive also taken into 
account the fact that Great Lakes has chosen to mention tests, investigation and referral, 
in addition to treatment under the policy Health Conditions for non-UK travel. Overall, Im 
not persuaded that its fair to conclude that the words investigation and treatment can be 
used interchangeably or that a reasonable consumer would consider these words to have 
the same meaning.  
The medical certificate completed by Mr Ms fathers GP says that Mr M was first seen, and 
referred to a plastic surgeon, in January 2021. But this medical certificate doesnt contain 
any evidence to suggest that Mr Ms father was awaiting treatment in March 2021. The 
medical records which Great Lakes subsequently requested and reviewed note a referral to 
a plastic surgeon in February 2021. However, these medical records contain no further 
details of any consultations which took place before the policy was purchased. The entries 
on the medical records which Great Lakes has mentioned relating to a scan, a biopsy and a 
diagnosis were all made after this policy had already been taken out and, so, arent relevant to whether I think Mr Ms father complied with the relevant policy Health Conditions at the 
time the policy was sold. Overall, Ive seen no medical evidence which persuades me that 
Mr Ms father was awaiting treatment for an illness (or a suspected illness) in March 2021. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr M accurately answered no to the relevant Health 
Conditions when buying his policy. I therefore think his claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of his insurance contract with Great Lakes, and I dont think Great Lakes acted 
fairly or reasonably by declining his claim. 
I understand that Great Lakes has also referred to the following exclusion under Section 1 of 
Mr Ms policy when declining the claim: 
What is not covered 
 
2. Anything arising directly or indirectly from: 
 
b) circumstances known to you before you booked your trip or purchased this 
insurance which could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation of the 
trip. 
For the avoidance of doubt, based on the particular circumstances of this claim including the 
timeline of events that unfolded surrounding Mr Ms fathers diagnosis, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on this exclusion to turn down Mr Ms claim. 
I understand Mr M experienced distress and inconvenience because Great Lakes declined 
his claim at what was already a very upsetting time. But Im satisfied that my provisional 
direction for Great Lakes to pay this claim provides a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr 
Ms complaint. I also note that Mr M says he had to chase Great Lakes for a final response 
to his complaint but, based on the evidence Ive seen, Great Lakes provided a final response 
to Mr M within the relevant timeframe set out by the regulator.
So, I said my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct 
Great Lakes to pay his claim together with interest.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision and said he had nothing further to add. Great Lakes 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence nor made any additional submissions, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right by paying Mr Ms claim, subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions including any applicable excesses and/or policy limits. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should add interest to the settlement at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim until the date the payment is made1.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint against Great Lake Insurance SE, and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 