DRN-2958511
The complaint
Mrs M has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt refund her £500 from a cash 
machine transaction when she didnt receive the cash she requested.  
What happened
On 30 June 2020 Mrs M went to a Barclays-owned cash machine. She took out two lots of 
£500 and attempted a third transaction. She didnt get the money so moved to the cash 
machine next to the first machine she used. Mrs M successfully withdrew a further £500.
Mrs M checked her account and found shed been debited £2,000 in total but had only 
received £1,500. She complained straightaway to Barclays.
Barclays reviewed the evidence for the last transaction and couldnt see anything wrong. 
They rejected Mrs Ms complaint. They had paid her £45 (including reimbursement for the 
cost of her calls) straightaway and then paid a further £100 for the distress caused on 
13 July.
Mrs M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She believed her reputation had 
been impugned.
Our investigator realised Barclays had never investigated the proper disputed transaction, 
which was the third withdrawal at the first machine. On advising Barclays of this, Barclays 
identified a discrepancy which meant Mrs M should have been refunded. They refunded 
£500 on 11 June 2021 (or thereabouts).
Mrs M believed shed had to make a number of phone calls, as well as a subject access 
request to ascertain her innocence. This had also impacted the holiday shed taken in July 
2020 as she was so worried about what had happened. She was looking for £1,000 in 
compensation.
Our investigator asked Barclays to pay Mrs M a further £150 in compensation which she 
thought was fair. 
Barclays refused to do this and an ombudsman has been asked to decide Mrs Ms 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.  
Firstly its worth saying that despite Barclays stating they worked on the evidence Mrs M 
provided them with about the disputed withdrawal, I dont believe this is the case. Their own 
complaint summary  which Mrs M shared with us  dated 1 July 2020 clearly states she 
was disputing the transaction at 10:12, not at 10:17.
Its a shame Barclays didnt notice this at the time. This would have meant Mrs M wouldnt 
have brought her complaint to our service and Im sure theyd have refunded her 
immediately. Were now 16 months later without a final resolution.
In the meantime Mrs M has had the worry and concern that Barclays thought she was a liar. 
As well as the protracted nature of waiting to have things put right.
Im pleased to see Barclays refunded the £500 for the cash machine withdrawal where 
Mrs M didnt receive the money. Ive noted Barclays gave her £100 for inconvenience over a 
year ago but this wasnt related to them looking at the incorrect transaction. So I believe, like 
our investigator, that its fair and reasonable Barclays pay Mrs M further compensation.
Putting things right
Its not pleasant being thought of as a liar and I can appreciate this weighed heavily on 
Mrs M. When we look at compensation and decide whats fair and reasonable, this is based 
on the impact this has on the specific individual. In Mrs Ms case  and related to her 
professional expertise  I can see why this may be greater than for someone whos more 
able to shrug off what happened.
Overall I believe a further £200 should be paid by Barclays because of the impact this has 
had on Mrs M. Ive considered Mrs Ms request for a further £1,000 but I think this would be 
excessive.
I also note Mrs M was without £500 for almost a year. I believe 8% simple interest should be 
added to the amount and paid to Mrs M for the period she was without this money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mrs M £200 for the distress caused; and
Give her 8% simple interest on £500 from 30 June 2020 to the date she was 
refunded £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman