DRN-3279466
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In March 2017 Mrs S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The electricity which was generated by the system would lead to Mrs S being paid 
the feed-in tariff (FIT) which would generate an income. 
She would make significant savings on her electricity bills. 
The financial benefits from the system would make it self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mrs S didnt receive the 'getting started' pack until August 2017. Although the 
document was signed by Mrs S, she says that this was not explained to her in any 
way and she was not shown the table which showed she would be out of pocket on a 
monthly basis. The document was on the salesmans laptop which he had control of 
at all times and she was not permitted to review the document independently.
Mrs S signed the document based on the representations made to her by the 
salesman that the system would be self-funding and without such assurances would 
not have agreed to proceed. 
Mrs S says that she would not have taken on the finance if she had not been assured 
that the system would pay for itself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs S 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and a document with the title Getting Started, which 
included a survey, contract, system analysis and repayments sections. Ive considered these 
in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The Getting Started document is detailed and sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ss recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the getting started document formed a 
central part of the sales process with P when Mrs S agreed to enter into the contract for the 
system. I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those 
made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mrs S agreed to enter into the contract. 
It is dated 11 March 2017, contained information which appears to be based on a discussion 
that day (such as around Mrs Ss energy usage) and was signed by Mrs S. I have also seen 
evidence which Im satisfied shows it was emailed to Mrs S on 12 March 2017. While not key 
to my decision on this point, I think that  given Mrs S received the document the day after 
the sales meeting  this reinforces my conclusion that the document wouldve formed a key 
part of the sales process. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,760.00. This figure did 
not include any interest associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, which 
was £18,544.60 including interest.
Im satisfied that the getting started document makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£9,760.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of 
the system was £9,760.00, the total amount of credit is £9,660.00 and the total amount 
payable was £18,544.60.
And as the getting started document provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly 
loan repayment due, as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the 
getting started document and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of 
the system was £9,760.00, it would cost Mrs S more than this as she had decided to pay for 
it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
The system analysis pages of the getting started document set out the estimated income 
Mrs S could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into 
the expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £212.26.
The document goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs S could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £330.89 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chose by Mrs S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£715.95. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £103.22 (slightly higher 
than the actual repayments of  £102.47 per month). For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the illustrative monthly loan repayment of £103.22, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the getting started document is clear that there would be a difference between the 
expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 17 the overall benefits that 
Mrs S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount of £18,544.60 payable 
under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs S that the system would pay for itself by 
the end of year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,268 kWh per year.
I have looked at Mrs Ss FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,723 kWh. This is more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P generally used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data, in this case likely the data between 
2006 and 2015, to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual 
yearly increases between 2017 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted 
by P at the point of sale and I think this explains why Mrs S hasnt been receiving the 
financial returns she may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy 
prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the 
energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower. 
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were likely based on the information 
available from the ONS covering 2006 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial 
benefit Mrs S couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that 
the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded 
that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs S entered 
into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman