DRN-1456247
The complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2005. Miss E says Direct Auto Financial Services Limited mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Miss E said she bought PPI when she got a loan to buy a car. She said she thought she had 
to have PPI to get the car. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Miss E 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Direct Auto made it clear on the paperwork that Miss E didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out when she signed separately for it. 
Direct Auto recommended the PPI to Miss E so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information Direct Auto gave Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Direct Auto doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss 
E.
 
But Direct Auto has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss E because: 
Direct Auto got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss E about that. Because Direct Auto didnt 
tell Miss E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Direct Auto has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss E has said - including what she said about her employee 
benefits and feeling she had no choice about taking PPI. But these points dont change my decision because I think she had need for the cover and the paperwork showed there was a 
choice for the consumer about taking PPI.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Direct Auto Financial Services Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss E. 
But Direct Auto Financial Services Limited does have to pay back to Miss E any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman