DRN-4383302
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way ITI Capital Limited have administered his share dealing 
account. He has encountered problems with the transfer of his account. He has also raised 
concerns about how a name change on his account was handled and the way he has been 
communicated with.
What happened
Following the insolvency of his previous broker, in July 2020, Mr Ks investments were 
transferred to ITI. He held a trading account and the shares and any cash he held were to be 
transferred.
In February 2021, Mr K informed ITI that he had changed his name. He sent a statutory 
deceleration and asked for his account to be updated. At the same time, he also decided he 
wanted to transfer his account after having problems with ITI not complying with requests to 
receive communications in an accessible format. 
In March 2021, Mr K found a new broker and sought to transfer his account away from ITI to 
the new broker. But he encountered problems due to ITI not properly updating the name on 
his account. ITI was communicating with his new broker about the transfer using his old 
name. This caused a delay in the transfer and prevented him from trading.
In May 2021, Mr Ks new broker sent a transfer tracker e-mail with a valuation of his 
investments. Mr K noticed that one of his share holdings had reduced. He found out after 
ringing ITI that there had been a corporate action, but he had not been told about it. He says 
ITI had previously told him a computer glitch had been the reason for the discrepancy. 
Over the next few months ITI continued to send emails to Mr Ks old email address, 
associated with his previous name. Mr K also raised a complaint about the way he had been 
dealt with by ITI through the various issues he had relating to the transfer, changing of his 
name and issues understanding his share portfolio. He requested compensation for all the 
calls and waste of his time when dealing with ITI. 
At the start of July 2021, Mr K received an e-mail from the new broker to say the transfer had 
been completed, but dividends had not been transferred and he still had not received a 
statement of his account from ITI.
Mr K says he didnt receive a response to his complaint, but in July 2022, ITI contacted him 
to say it was exiting the UK retail market (sent to his old email address). He was then 
unexpectedly contacted by the new broker regarding a transfer from ITI. Following this Mr K 
contacted this service for help as everything still hadnt been resolved.  
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. This is what I said:
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded ITI failed to provide an adequate service to Mr K while 
it held the account. Im also persuaded ITI took too long to complete the transfer to Mr Ks 
new broker. 
Ive considered all of the information Mr K has provided about the impact of the service 
failings. This includes what he has explained about the problems he has encountered as a 
result of ITIs failure to correctly update his name on its records, the frustration and 
inconvenience he has suffered as a result of his dealings with ITI, all of the delays he has 
experienced and the impact that has had on him being able to manged his investments. Ive 
also taken into account what Mr K has told us about the way ITI has communicated with him 
 including that there have been times when it failed to make the adjustments he asked for 
and required to allow him to read information sent to him. It is disappointing to hear that 
information was sent to Mr K in a format he couldnt read, despite his request for a larger 
font to be used. 
Bearing in mind what Mr K has told us, Im persuaded these failings of ITI caused 
him inconvenience and distress. It is appropriate that ITI compensates him for this. 
In my view, considering the level of impact Mr K has told us about, £750 would be fair and 
reasonable redress for this. I say this bearing in mind that Ive seen nothing from ITI that 
makes me think this wouldnt be fair. 
I agree with out investigator that the evidence available isnt sufficient to persuade me that 
redress for trading losses is due here, as what I have isnt enough to persuade me of exactly 
what trades, and so what profits or losses, Mr K might have made had he had timely access 
to his funds.
I understand that Mr K was concerned that ITI failed to provide notice of a corporation action 
that led to the number of shares he held reducing in a particular holding in his account. It is 
unclear whether ITI was in a position to notify Mr K of this corporate action and I note the 
investigator explained this was a mandatory action, which would mean there wasnt an 
action that Mr K needed to take. So, while it would have been better for Mr K to receive 
notice, I havent seen evidence that his position has been compromised. Where there is a 
share consolidation, this doesnt reduce the overall value of the holding, instead it 
consolidates shares into a smaller number, but the underlying value remains in line with 
what they worth previously. 
Mr K has confirmed to this service that his new broker has now received the shares that 
were transferred as well as the additional funds he had in cash. On this basis Im satisfied 
everything that is required to be transferred has been.
Mr K responded to say he is in agreement with the provisional decision and overall, he is 
happy with the conclusion of the ombudsman. But he did provide some additional 
comments. In summary he said:
- On the issue to do with consolidation of shares, had he been told about the 
consolidation he would have sold his original holding and then rebought the original 
number of shares he held to ensure he received future dividends on this number of 
shares.
- ITI continue to send emails to his old address. 
- He is concerned he doesn't have a dividend history from ITI, and he needs this for 
when it comes to doing his tax returns. He needs the information as a large print 
physical document to enable him to carry out his affairs in an effective way for his 
sight issues.
ITI responded and said it accepted the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr K and ITI have accepted my provisional findings, Ive got no reason to change 
the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
I have noted Mr Ks additional comments. I acknowledge that he has said he would have 
taken different actions had he been aware of the share consolidation. I accept this 
possibility, but I dont agree ITI has caused him a financial loss here. Even if he would have 
sold and re-purchased the shares, he would have had to fund the purchase of additional 
shares post consolidation at his own expense. And for the reasons previously explained, I 
dont think the share consolidation reduced the overall value of his holding. 
In respect of ITI still using his old email address. This is disappointing to hear. ITI should 
ensure this doesnt happen again. But if it does then Mr K will have the option to raise any 
concerns as a new complaint. 
I also note his comments about receiving the information he requires for his tax returns. ITI 
should provide this to him in the format that he has requested to allow him to complete his 
financial affairs. Again, if ITI fail to do this, Mr K may choose to raise this matter with ITI as a 
part of a new complaint. 
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find ITI has caused delays 
in the handling of the administration of Mr Ks trading account, and he has suffered distress 
and inconvenience as a result. Ive set out below the compensation it needs to pay him to 
recognise the impact.  
Putting things right
Ive found ITI Capital Limited at fault, so ITI Capital Limited should put things right. To put 
things right and compensate Mr K, ITI Capital Limited should pay him £750 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
It should also send Mr K the account statements he has requested in the large font size he 
has explained that he requires.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct ITI Capital Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman