DRN-2412347
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the fees charged by Money Redress Limited (MRL) following a 
successful claim for a mis-sale regarding a pension transfer. 
What happened
Mr M received advice on a pension transfer. When this didnt achieve the outcome he was 
expecting, he instructed MRL in 2018 to pursue a claim for him against the pension provider. 
The claim was later settled by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
2020 and MRL deducted their fees from the compensation received.  
Mr M felt the fee claimed by MRL was too high so he complained about this and the fee not 
being explained to him. MRL said they had made the fees clear in documents sent to Mr M, 
so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and thought that MRL had made their fees clear 
in documents sent to Mr M so it wasnt unfair for them to charge their fee. Mr M disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here about the factual background. Mr M instructed MRL to pursue a 
claim for him which was successful. MRL received compensation of £35,418.42 and 
deducted 30% for their fees from the compensation. The fees were £10,625.53. What Ive 
looked at here is whether MRL have acted fairly and reasonably in deducting this amount for 
their fees.   
I can see a letter was sent out to Mr M in June 2018 thanking him for getting in touch with 
MRL. This letter says that Mr M can undertake the investigation and any complaint himself 
and if he isnt successful then he can refer the matter to our service. They also say, they 
cant promise that by using their services Mr M has a better opportunity of gaining 
compensation. Under the heading Payment for our Services, they say if Mr M receives 
compensation then they charge 25% plus VAT (30% total) of the compensation amount. 
They then set out an example using figures to demonstrate how much they would charge.  
MRL attached terms and conditions and asked Mr M to read these to ensure hes 
comfortable he understands the terms. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and these 
define Fee as 25% plus VAT of the total compensation. Further in the terms and conditions 
it says Mr M is responsible for settling MRLs invoice and again gives an example of how the 
fees would be applied using figures. It gives £1,000 as an example for compensation and 
says that MRLs fee would be £300. The terms and conditions set out the process and say 
MRL will receive the compensation to their client account, deduct their fees and then forward 
the remainder to Mr M. There is a declaration which requires Mr M to sign to confirm he has 
read and agrees to the terms and conditions. This has been signed by Mr M and dated. 
There is also a letter of authority signed by Mr M and dated which gives MRL permission to 
deal with the claim on Mr Ms behalf. The letter of authority says I acknowledge that I could 
pursue this matter with you myself without the involvement of Money Redress Limited, but 
that I have instead opted to engage Money Redress Limited.      
Taking this into account, I think the information about MRLs fees was clear, fair and not 
misleading. The information was given at the outset and, importantly, before Mr M had 
signed to instruct MRL. I note Mr M feels the fees werent properly explained so Ive looked 
at how this information was presented to him. The fees and an example of how it would 
apply are set out in the terms and conditions which is three pages long. There might be 
occasions where information might be difficult to identify because terms and conditions might 
be unnecessarily lengthy. That isnt the case here and, as well as being covered in a 
relatively short terms and conditions document, the same information is also set out in the 
letter. And, I think thats reasonable as it ensures key information like fees can also be noted 
from the letter. 
I can see further documents were sent to Mr M when his claim needed to be submitted to the 
FSCS. These were signed in 2020. At this point, the Claims Management: Conduct of 
Business (CMCOB) Sourcebook applied and CMCOB 4.2.5R sets out what a firm needs to 
do to make their fees clear, fair and not misleading. This requires a firm to provide an 
illustration of what their fee would be by reference to each of the following amounts 
recovered for the consumer; £1,000, £3,000 and £10,000. The further documents sent to Mr 
M do set this out. 
I note Mr M says he was going through difficult personal circumstances at the time so MRL 
shouldve discussed the fees in person with him. I am sorry to hear about the circumstances 
described by Mr M but I havent seen any information which shows that Mr M asked for any 
clarity or further explanation from MRL about their fees. I think its reasonable for MRL to 
take the view that, by signing the terms and conditions, Mr M understood their fees.  
MRL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, MRLs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Just because MRLs fee might be higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr M, 
it doesnt make their fee unjustified.
So, looking at the claim as a whole and all information sent to Mr M, I think MRL have acted 
in line with their terms and conditions by charging a fee of 30%. The information about this 
was clear and fair and, having carried out my own calculation, I can see the amount 
deducted by MRL does represent 30% of the compensation. So, I dont think MRL have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman