DRN-3129955
The complaint
Miss S complains that PSA Finance UK Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2016, Miss S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
PSA Finance. Miss S paid a deposit of £100 and was required to make 60 monthly 
repayments of around £326. The total repayable under the agreement was £19,649.
Miss S says that PSA Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks and didnt take 
into account that she had told it she was moving in with her partner that month and so her 
expenses would increase significantly. She says if it had, it would have seen the agreement 
wasnt affordable. PSA Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included an automated credit check which assessed Miss S credit 
worthiness and indebtedness. It said this showed she had virtually no other financial 
commitments and there were no signs of indebtedness. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought PSA Finance ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss S.
PSA Finance agreed in part. It said its checks at the application stage were reasonable and 
proportionate but said had it been aware of Miss S full situation it would have taken a 
different approach. It agreed to removing the interest and charges from Miss S account and 
treating all payments as though they were payments of the capital amount. It also agreed to 
work with Miss S regarding any outstanding balance. 
PSA Finance didnt agree that any adverse information should be removed from Miss S 
credit file as it said that it had done nothing wrong and it was Miss S who hadnt declared her 
situation at the time. It said removing the information would not give an accurate reflection of 
Miss S situation to other lenders. It did agree that if the debt was repaid the ownership of the 
vehicle would be transferred to Miss S but said this might not be the best option for Miss S 
and that handing back the vehicle through a voluntary termination may be better. It said if 
Miss S engaged with it this could be discussed.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I note PSA Finances comments that it wasnt required to gather income and expenses 
information and that in this case it doesnt think it would have been proportionate to ask 
Miss S for copies of her bank statements. But PSA Finance was required to carry out 
proportionate checks to ensure the lending was sustainably affordable for Miss S. 
Based on the evidence I have seen, PSA Finance didnt ask Miss S for her income or 
expenditure prior to lending. Without any understanding of what Miss S was earning, I dont 
think it was possible for PSA Finance to make a fair assessment of her ability to afford the 
repayments without undue difficulty. 
Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Miss S regular living 
expenses were and I also note Miss S comment that she told had explained her 
circumstances were changing as she was moving in with her partner. So, while her credit 
report didnt show any significant commitments, I think her comments about her 
commitments changing should have been factored into the assessment.
Without knowing what Miss S earnings and regular committed expenditure was going 
forward PSA Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for PSA Finance to have asked about Miss S 
income in some way. Ive seen that Miss S income at the time was around £800 and so she 
was on a relatively low income. I also think it would have been proportionate for PSA 
Finance to have found out more about Miss S committed expenditure, such as her living 
costs. I cant be sure exactly what PSA Finance would have found out if it had asked. 
However, Miss S has said she explained at that time she was taking on a mortgage and I 
can see from her credit file that this started in the same month as the conditional sale 
agreement with monthly payments being made of around £300. I find it more likely than not 
Miss S would have noted the mortgage she was entering and given this I find it reasonable 
to expect she would then also need to budget for other household costs such as council tax 
and utility bills. Miss S has explained she took on the mortgage with a partner and so costs 
may have been split, however I still think this raises concerns about the affordability of the 
agreement.
I say this because the payment costs under the agreement accounted for around 40% of 
Miss S income, and given the additional expenses she has said she explained at that time, I 
think that PSA Finance should have been concerned about whether the agreement was 
sustainably affordable. 
As I think PSA Finance would likely have found the information noted above if it had 
completed proportionate checks, I therefore dont think it acted fairly by approving the 
finance. 
PSA Finance has agreed to the refund of interest and charges on the agreement and I think 
this reasonable in this case. I note PSA Finances comment about the return of the car not 
necessarily being in Miss S best interests. It is reasonable that it will engage with Miss S 
regarding any outstanding balance. However, based on the refund of all interest and 
charges, Miss S will only be liable for the cost price of the vehicle (£16,282). PSA Finance 
said in a call in September 2021 that Miss S had paid £16,181 on the agreement. Therefore 
there is only a small shortfall (if any) remaining and so I find it reasonable that once the 
original cost price has been paid, ownership of the car is passed to Miss S.
PSA Finance doesnt think that the adverse information about this agreement should be 
removed from Miss S credit file. I have considered this but given I do not find it was 
responsible to provide the lending to Miss S I think it fair that her credit file is amended so that she doesnt suffer adverse information on an agreement that should not have been 
given.
Putting things right
As I dont think PSA Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. PSA Finance has agreed to 
this. Miss S should therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being 
£16,282. Anything Miss S has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an 
overpayment. If there is still an outstanding balance and Miss S wishes to keep the car then 
PSA Finance should work with Miss S to agree an affordable repayment plan. 
To settle Miss S complaint PSA Finance should do the following:
oRefund any payments Miss S has made above the original cost price of 
£16,282 adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Miss S has paid less than the original cost price of £16,282, and Miss S 
wishes to keep the car PSA Finance should arrange an affordable and 
sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once PSA Finance has received the original cost price, it should:
oEnd the agreement with nothing further owing and transfer the ownership of 
the car to Miss S; and
oremove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance to take off tax from this interest. PSA 
Finance must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss S asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman