DRN-2869093
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Equifax Limited displayed someone elses information on his 
credit file.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr P found his siblings information on his credit file and reported this. In 
November 2020, after some chasing from Mr P, Equifax removed the siblings information. 
They later adjusted the file again as Mr P had moved address, and so they had to make sure 
his data was separate from his siblings at that address too.
Equifax explained their system had accidentally matched Mr P and his sibling due to the 
similarities in their details. They said theyd registered a notice of disassociation, which 
should prevent this from reoccurring. They offered Mr P £350 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Equifaxs offer was fair. Mr P didnt 
agree. He felt they had been negligent and that the award should better reflect how poorly 
theyd managed things. He said this had been time-consuming. He wasnt happy with 
Equifaxs systems or their explanation of what had happened.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator  Ill explain why.
First, I can completely understand where Mr P is coming from and why hes felt concerned. 
Its natural he wants his data to be handled correctly, and I understand this has been a 
frustrating experience for him.
Equifax explained what went wrong  in essence, their system tries to match all the data 
their suppliers give to the right customers. And sometimes data suppliers might switch a 
customers first and middle name, or enter a date of birth incorrectly, or a customer might 
have an alias, and so on. So their matching system tries to take that into account when 
putting together peoples files. Here, Mr P and his siblings data was similar, so the system 
accidentally matched them. I understand Mr P isnt satisfied with Equifaxs explanation, but 
I dont think theres much more they can reasonably add. No system is perfect, and mistakes 
happen sometimes. Were not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (or FCA 
for short) and we cant change Equifaxs systems as Mr P may like. However, I can look at 
how to put things right when they have gone wrong.
When something like this has gone wrong, my main concern is that its fixed, and that Mr P 
hasnt suffered a financial loss  or that the loss is put right.
Here, Equifax have fixed Mr Ps file, and have added a notice of disassociation which 
separates his details from his siblings, to help stop this from reoccurring. Theyve also said 
that if this does happen again somehow, theyre happy to step in and update the 
disassociation record to keep Mr P and his sibling separate. And if it does happen again, 
Mr P can always ask our service for help again, too. But as things stand now, it seems that 
the issue has been resolved.
My next concern is whether Equifaxs error caused Mr P any substantial financial losses  
such as getting unfairly turned down for credit. But as far as Mr Ps told us, there doesnt 
appear to have been any such financial impact. So it doesnt look like theres anything 
Equifax need to put right there.
Lastly, I understand that Mr P has been caused some unfair stress and upset by Equifaxs 
mistake, and he also contacted Equifax a few times to chase things. We cant undo the 
stress thats been caused, nor give back the time involved, but we often tell businesses to 
pay compensation  to acknowledge they got something wrong and the impact it had.
In terms of the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to 
punish or fine businesses. And we have guidelines about what levels of compensation to 
award  and we need to be consistent. Taking everything into account, I agree with our 
investigator that the £350 Equifax have already offered is fair to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Equifax Limited have already made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. They should pay the compensation to Mr P, if they have not already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman