DRN-2644427
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) rejected a credit 
application he made to them and havent explained why.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of 
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit to Mr H 
because of information on his credit file. 
Thats what wed expect them to do in these circumstances so that Mr H was able to review 
his file and rectify anything that was incorrect.
Whilst I understand Mr Hs frustration that Creation havent provided any further detail, I 
dont think its unusual or wrong for a business to refuse to do so. If borrowers understand 
the business lending criteria they may be able to manipulate the process, so businesses are 
always understandably reluctant to provide greater detail and we wouldnt ask them to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman