DRN-2993154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim they made 
under a travel insurance policy in full.
What happened
Mr T holds an annual travel insurance policy through his bank account. The insurer is UKI, 
and the policy covers his partner.
Mr and Mrs T paid a deposit towards accommodation abroad for September 2020. But they 
had to cancel the holiday due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. Mr and Mrs T only received 
a small refund from the accommodation provider, so they made a claim for UKI for the 
remaining cost.
UKI only paid a portion of the claim because Mr and Mrs Ts son, along with his family, were 
also going to stay at the accommodation. So, UKI considered the remaining portion to be a 
gift. UKI said the policy doesnt cover costs that are paid as a gift.
Mr and Mrs T dont agree that the accommodation costs could be considered to be a gift. 
They say they paid for the entire property and wouldve done so irrespective of who else 
stayed there. Mr and Mrs T also say their son and his family cant claim the costs from their 
travel insurer, as they werent named on the booking, and they didnt pay anything towards 
the cost.
Mr and Mrs T have also referred to three elements to determine a gift in law  they say there 
needs to be intent, delivery and acceptance. But they argue the last two didnt happen, as 
the holiday didnt go ahead.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think UKI had done anything wrong 
by only paying what it considered to be Mr and Mrs Ts portion of the accommodation cost. 
This was because the policy excluded gifted costs. She also noted the policy had an optional 
upgrade that wouldve covered this scenario and Mr T hadnt bought the upgrade. 
Our investigator was satisfied UKI had acted fairly by considering the remaining portion of 
the deposit to be a gift. She also said this type of term wasnt unusual in travel insurance 
policies.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators findings. They accepted what our 
investigator had said about the policy terms. But they didnt think shed addressed what 
theyd said about the definition of gift.
Another one of our investigators explained to Mr and Mrs T that our services approach was 
that where a word isnt defined in the policy (as gift isnt here), wed apply the words every 
day and commonly used meaning. She thought the ordinary meaning of the word gift was 
a thing given willingly to someone without payment.
Mr and Mrs T still didnt agree with what our investigators had said. They maintain that the 
cost they are claiming for cannot be considered a gift under its legal definition.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
The relevant section of the policy includes the following exclusion:
We wont pay for:
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling 
with someone who is not insured under the policy, we will only pay your portion of any costs 
even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
I can also see that under the Who is covered section of the policy it says that You can 
extend the cover to include any guests travelling with you on a trip by buying a Guest 
Upgrade.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs T have said about the deposit paid for the 
accommodation not being a gift. Ive also taken into account the arguments in relation to the 
law. But as our investigator explained, where a word isnt defined by the policy, we look at 
the words every day and commonly used meaning. I agree with the interpretation our 
investigator outlined. This type of term is also fairly standard in travel insurance policies, so I 
dont think its an unusual term.
Mr and Mrs T have focused very specifically on the definition of the word gift. But Ive 
considered the above exclusion in its entirety, and whether UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably in relying on that exclusion in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say the accommodation costs werent a gift. Fundamentally, 
this is because I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs T were expecting their son, 
and his family, to pay for the accommodation. Taking everything into account, I think UKI has 
acted fairly and reasonably by considering a significant portion of the deposit Mr and Mrs T 
paid to be a gift.
I can also see that the policy had an optional upgrade that wouldve provided cover in this 
scenario. UKI provides the option to cover additional guests for trips if the policyholders want 
or need to but Mr T hadnt paid for this. This further persuades me that UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably in only paying what it considered to be Mr and Mrs Ts portion of the claim. They 
were the only ones covered by the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it 
settled Mr and Mrs Ts claim. I dont think theres anything else it needs to do, to put things 
right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman