DRN-2887958
The complaint
Miss R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont reimburse her the money she paid to 
what she says was an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events. 
Miss R saw an investment opportunity advertised on social media and registered her 
interest. In January 2020, she was contacted by a representative of a trading company. Ill 
refer to the trading company as M. The representative persuaded Miss R to open a trading 
account with M and make an initial deposit of $250. The following day, Miss R realised, 
shed likely fallen victim to a scam. She immediately contacted Capital One. She asked for 
the payment to be stopped. Capital One explained, the transaction could not be stopped 
because it had been authorised and processed. She asked that Capital One reimburse her 
via Mastercards chargeback scheme or under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Capital One responded. It said it couldnt pursue a chargeback claim because the merchant 
had provided all the services. And that Miss R didnt have a claim under section 75 as the 
specific criteria which applies to the Act wasnt met in this case. 
Unhappy with Capital Ones response Miss R brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. As she disagrees, Miss R has 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im sorry to disappoint Miss R. I know this isnt the outcome shed been 
hoping for. But my role requires that I consider if Capital One acted fairly and reasonably 
when declining the claim. I think they did, and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme 
rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Capital One) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder.
Our service has clarified this matter with Mastercard directly, it explained that if a cardholder 
authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are restricted 
regardless of whether the activity was illegal or brand damaging. It went onto explain that 
issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, 
or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction 
to load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are 
subsequently done with the funds. 
Whilst the scheme does allow for a chargeback if it can be evidenced that the funds never 
credited the trading account. This was not the nature of Miss Rs claim. Her claim was that 
shed fallen victim to a scam and was unable to withdraw her funds. So, based on the above 
I dont think declining to raise a chargeback was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise 
of Capital Ones discretion. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Rs credit card statement which shows the disputed payment of 
£191.64 on 12 January 2020. Miss R was therefore responsible for repaying the amount 
owed to her credit card provider and so she is the debtor. As Miss Rs Capital One credit 
card was used to make this payment, Capital One was the creditor. And from everything 
Ive seen it is clear M was the supplier. However, the payment Miss R disputes wasnt 
made to M  it was made to another merchant. And as Ive seen no evidence linking the 
merchant Miss R paid to the supplier  M, Miss R doesnt have the required DCS agreement 
in place to make a section 75 claim. So I dont think Capital One acted unfairly in declining 
her claim.  
I appreciate Miss R says all this couldve been avoided if Capital One had stopped the 
payment when she contacted them. But once a credit card payment has been authorised 
and is being processed it cant be cancelled by the card issuer. So I dont think Capital One 
acted unreasonably when they informed Miss R of such.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award 
against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman