DRN-2458221
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the level of contact she has received from Gladstone Brooks Limited, 
in relation to a claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) it was representing her 
on.
What happened
Ms J made a claim for mis-sold PPI with a business she had received lending from in the 
past. And she appointed Gladstone Brooks as the claims management company to 
represent her. 
Ms J has explained she later told Gladstone Brooks that she didnt want it to act for her in 
relation to this particular claim anymore  because she was told she didnt have PPI on this 
particular account. But despite informing Gladstone Brooks of this, it still kept contacting her 
 via phone and text message in relation to the claim.
Ms J has said the contact she received was excessive, and she felt harassed by the amount 
of calls and text messages she was getting. So, Ms J raised a complaint about this.
Gladstone Brooks responded and apologised for the experience Ms J had received. And, it 
confirmed it had updated Ms Js contact preferences, so she wasnt contacted by phone or 
text message any longer. It also said it had closed the claim it had been pursuing for Ms J. 
But Ms J didnt feel this resolved her complaint. So, she referred her complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think Gladstone Brooks needed to do 
anything more. She said Ms J had provided authorisation for Gladstone Brooks to handle her 
claim, and to contact her. And she couldnt see any evidence to suggest Ms J had told 
Gladstone Brooks she didnt want representation any further. So, she thought it was fair Ms 
J to be contacted in relation to her claim.
Our investigator did recognise that the level of contact Ms J had received was excessive. But 
she felt the apology Gladstone Brooks had provided, as well as the assurance it wouldnt 
contact her via phone or text message any further, was a sufficient way to resolve Ms Js 
complaint.
Ms J didnt agree. She said the level of calls made her feel harassed and caused her a good 
deal of trouble and upset. Ms J felt it would be reasonable for Gladstone Brooks to provide 
her with some compensation for the issues above.
Because Ms J didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent both parties my provisional detail on this complaint  outlining my thoughts on the 
matter. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on upholding this complaint, and requiring Gladstone Brooks to pay 
Ms J an amount of £100 compensation. Ive explained the reasons for this below.
Ive looked at the form of authority Ms J signed with Gladstone Brooks. From looking at this, 
I can see Ms J did provide Gladstone Brooks with authorisation for it to represent her in 
respect of her claim for mis-sold PPI. And, Im aware from the comments of both parties, that 
Ms J also completed an online questionnaire in relation to the matter in March 2020. I think 
by appointing Gladstone Brooks Ms J knew it would need to contact her in relation to this 
claim to move it forward.
Ms J has said she later told Gladstone Brooks she didnt want it to represent her. But, 
looking though the information provided to me, I cant see a record of any contact Ms J made 
to say she no longer wanted to be represented by Gladstone Brooks, until she raised her 
complaint about the level of contact being received. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Gladstone Brooks to continue working on the matter up until that point.
But Ms J has noted the level of contact made prior to August 2020 was excessive. And she 
has provided screen shots she requested and received from Gladstone Brooks, showing the 
occasions it contacted Ms J by phone or text message. Having a look at this, I can see that 
between March 2020 and August 2020, Gladstone Brooks contacted Ms J via these 
methods very regularly, often multiple times in one day (on some occasions this was four or 
five times a day) and did this every few days.
Its my understanding Gladstone Brooks was looking to gain some information from Ms J  
because the relevant lender had contacted it again and asked for further information. And it 
was still working on other PPI claims it had made on Ms Js behalf. I cant see Ms J ever 
responded to Gladstone Brooks calls  which does explain why it kept contacting her. I do 
recognise that if Ms J had responded to Gladstone Brooks, this may have limited the amount 
of calls she ultimately received. 
However, I do still think the level of phone and text message contact was excessive, despite 
Gladstone Brooks not receiving responses from Ms J. The contact to Ms J was regular and 
sustained. And I can see how this would have been frustrating for Ms J, and why she 
thought Gladstone Brooks were calling her too much.
Ms J has clearly been distressed by this level of phone and text contact. She has explained 
to Gladstone Brooks that the level of calls felt like she was being harassed, and this was 
upsetting her, and I can see why. Gladstone Brooks has apologised, and Ms J has said that 
since raising the matter she hasnt received any further phone or text message contact - 
which Im satisfied is fair. But I also think it would be reasonable to provide Ms J with £100 
compensation to recognise the upset caused to over a period of at least five months when 
she was getting excessively contacted.  
Ms J responded to my provisional decision and noted that she agreed with it. And so did 
Gladstone Brooks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.Neither party has provided any new evidence or comments that change my thoughts or 
reasoning on the outcome of this complaint. And both parties have agreed to what I said in 
my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for the same reasons 
noted in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
Therefore, I require Gladstone Brooks to pay Ms J £100 compensation. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Gladstone 
Brooks Limited to pay Ms J £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman