DRN-2728644
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold Miss H 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
The mortgage, that Miss H originally used the PPI to cover, ended in 2005; but she kept the 
PPI policy going for many years after, to cover a different mortgage with another lender.  
When it started in 1997, the PPI was for unemployment cover only. But a year or so later, 
Miss H asked for accident and sickness cover to be added. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
From the documents Ive seen, it was made clear that Miss H had a choice about taking the 
PPI, and that she chose the type of cover she wanted (unemployment only) and confirmed 
this with her signature. So, the PPI wasnt mis-sold in that way. 
The Co-op Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H as being particularly suited to her 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss H to decide whether it was suitable.  
But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in her circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay  and in fact this is what happened at one point, when 
Miss H was made redundant and was unemployed for several months. And, once the 
accident and sickness cover started, it would have paid out on top of any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer than Miss H was entitled to. It would have put off the time when 
shed need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. So, this all would have put Miss H in a more secure 
position. And Ive not seen anything to say she couldnt afford the premiums at the time. 
Its hard to know how well the Co-op Bank explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But 
I think its likely, looking at the attention Miss H gave to her application, that shed have 
bought the policy without understanding the essential details of how much it would cost, and 
what benefit it would pay. And I think its unlikely that better information would have made 
Miss H decide it wasnt worth the cost. Finally, I cant see she would have been affected by 
the main exclusions in the policy.  
Miss H is unhappy at the amount of commission the Co-op has said it earned from the 
insurer, as a result of selling her the PPI.  Im not sure shes saying she wouldnt have 
bought the policy if shed been told about it, but that she does regard it as unjust. 
The adjudicator explained how the rules about commission, that have arisen from the 
Supreme Court judgement in the Plevin Case, relate to the original mortgage and the 
obligations that the Co-op had in relation to that mortgage. The adjudicator explained why 
the Co-op wasnt obliged to return any of the commission as a result of the court judgment. I 
agree with that explanation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman