DRN-2782083
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC paid money from his late fathers estate into his 
account which allowed him to gamble with it.
What happened
Mr M says his father passed away and the money from his fathers Barclays account was 
paid into his account he held with a different bank. He says Barclays knew he had a 
gambling problem and should have paid the money into his mothers account. Mr M says he 
lost all of the money gambling.
Barclays says it has no record of being told about Mr Ms gambling issues and says he didnt 
have a Barclays account at the time it paid the money to him. It says Mr M gave it a death 
certificate and Letter of Administration and it correctly paid the money to Mr M which ought 
then to have been given to the beneficiary of the estate which was Mr Ms mother.
Mr M had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had correctly followed Mr Ms instructions and couldnt be responsible for 
what Mr M did with the money. The investigator also thought Barclays didnt have a record of 
Mr M telling it about any gambling problems.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and maintains the money should have gone to his mother.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the documents Mr M gave to Barclays following his fathers passing away. I 
can see he provided identification documents and a Letter of Administration as well as the 
death certificate. Im satisfied the Letter of Administration says the estate of Mr Ms father 
was to be given to him to administer for the benefit of his mother. So, I dont think Barclays 
made a mistake by following those instructions and dont think it had any alternative but to 
pay the money which was about £56,000 to Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M says the money ought to have been paid to his mother. But I disagree as 
the Letter of Administration clearly says the money was to be paid to Mr M and for him to 
administer it. In those circumstances I find that it was Mr Ms responsibility to administer the 
estate by paying the money to his mother.
I also appreciate that Mr M says Barclays ought to have known about his gambling problem. 
But Im satisfied that in 2019 when Mr Ms father passed away Mr M didnt have a Barclays 
account and I dont think Barclays could reasonably have known that Mr M had a gambling 
problem unless he told it about that problem and couldnt do anything about it in any event. I 
have not seen any such record on Barclays records about that issue and think that if Mr M 
had any concerns about having the money paid into his bank account then he ought to have 
told Barclays that.
I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for how Mr M used the money or that it would have 
known that Mr M didnt follow the correct process for distributing his fathers estate to his 
mother. And overall, Im satisfied Barclays correctly did what it ought to have done in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman