DRN-3841759
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs H have complained about the advice they received from (the predecessor 
business of) ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) to invest £250,000 into an Investment Bond. 
Mr G and Mrs H are being represented by a third party in bringing their complaint but for 
ease of reading, I shall refer to Mr G and Mrs H in my decision. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr G and Mrs H were advised by ReAssure to invest into an Investment Bond for 
income and inheritance tax planning. 
The Investment Bond was surrendered on 6 June 2008. Mr G and Mrs H were concerned 
whether the Investment Bond was suitable for them and raised a complaint with the 
predecessor business of ReAssure. The predecessor business of ReAssure responded to 
the complaint on 5 August 2008 not upholding it. 
In 2011 the predecessor business of ReAssure reviewed the sale of the Investment Bond 
and made an offer of compensation. Mr G and Mrs H were unaware of the offer, so it wasnt 
accepted. The complaint was closed. 
ReAssure doesnt have any detailed records of the 2011 offer and wont carry out a further 
review of the sale for which Mr G and Mrs H would like compensation. It closed its file on the 
complaint as Mr G and Mrs H werent able to provide any further information about the offer.
Mr G and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator who considered the 
complaint didnt uphold it. They said;
ReAssure couldnt locate the correspondence and offer made in 2011. It had 
contacted the predecessor business who couldnt trace any review or offer.
The Investment Bond wasnt in force when ReAssure took over the predecessor 
business in September 2020 so there werent any documents in relation to the 2011 
offer.
The investigator didnt find it unreasonable for ReAssure not to be able access to the 
documents from the complaint in 2008. And because of that they were unable to form 
an opinion as to whether the Investment Bond was mis-sold. 
The investigator couldnt find ReAssure responsible for Mr G and Mrs H not receiving 
the offer made.
If more information came to light, they said we may be able to re-look at the case. 
Mr G and Mrs H responded to say that while all of the paperwork might not be available, its 
clear the Investment Bond was mis-sold to them and should be investigated. They didnt 
have any record of the 2011 offer as they were unaware of it. And as there was no evidence 
to show that decision was ever made or sent to them, the sale of the Investment Bond 
should now be investigated. As ReAssure has accepted it should have sent a compensation 
offer its clear the Investment Bond was mis-sold. The product wasnt suitable for them. 
In a submission to this service ReAssure said As an offer of compensation was made in 
2011, there is an argument to say that [the complainant] might have brought his complaint 
too late, however we recognise that the fact that the complaint was re-opened in 2011 and 
compensation offered would indicate the previous decision might have been overturned. In 
view of this, we are open to reviewing this case again and assessing the whole suitability of 
the plan. 
Because ReAssure had given its consent to an assessment of the suitability and there was 
no evidence of referral rights to this service being given to Mr G and Mrs H in 2011 when the 
offer was made, the investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint. They 
said;
They werent entirely convinced the sale was proactively rereviewed in 2011 but 
took that information at face value. 
If an offer was made in 2011, they were persuaded this wasnt received by         
Mr G and Mrs H as they were no longer living at the address recorded by the 
business. 
They couldnt see that a final response had been issued in 2016 or after when 
ReAssure had been put on notice that a complaint was in progress. So, they 
couldnt conclude that any time restrictions applied. And they couldnt say for 
certain that any complaint about the suitability of the Investment Bond had been 
carried out. And which was a point also made by ReAsssure.
There was difficulty in assessing the merits of the complaint because of the time 
since the sale in 2005. 
From the information that was available, the investigator didnt think ReAssure needed to 
take any action about the mis-sale. They said;
Mr G and Mrs H were looking to invest £250,000 over the medium to long term. 
They had cash of around £507,000 because of the sale of a business.
Mr G had some investment experience.
Mr G and Mrs H were classified as having a cautious risk profile which didnt 
seem unreasonable considering their assets, objective, time horizon, knowledge 
and experience. 
The investment was equally split between a cautious Distribution fund and a 
moderate risk Property fund. Their overall risk was aligned with a cautious risk 
profile. The investigator couldnt review more information about this as it wasnt 
available, but they didnt think that because of Mr G and Mrs Hs circumstances 
they could conclude they were inappropriate for the type of investment.  
Mr G and Mrs H received a profit of £1,990.04 over the three years it was 
invested. 
Because of the lack of information and Mr G and Mrs H not doing more at an 
earlier stage to ensure they werent hindered by that; the investigator couldnt find 
in the balance of probabilities in Mr G and Mr Hs favour. 
They appreciated the frustration about the 2011 offer but didnt have any 
information to help confirm what it was and for what reason it was offered.
They werent persuaded ReAssure had done anything wrong. 
Mr G and Mrs H didnt agree and made the following points;They had evidence that the property fund was a moderate risk fund which 
confirmed a significant amount of risk. 
Mr G had only had one ISA investment of £7,000.
The cautious rated Distribution fund included several risks such as exchange 
rates, fixed interest, sub-investment grade corporate bonds, smaller companies, 
and property. A 2006 illustration showed the assumed investment growth rate of 
the Property fund was 5.5% and the Distribution fund was 6.0% which reinforced 
the point that the Distribution fund had a significant level of risk in order to 
achieve that growth rate. 
They couldnt agree that the investment was suitable. For Mr G he was making 
an investment 35 times larger than the one single tax efficient ISA and the funds 
invested into posed a significant risk.
As Mr G and Mrs Hs comments didnt change the investigators view, they asked that the 
complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I should first that I dont find it surprising there is limited paperwork from the time of the sale 
or the 2011 offer. The Investment Bond had been surrendered by the time that ReAssure 
took over the predecessors business in 2020 and businesses arent obliged to keep 
paperwork indefinitely in any event.
However, Mr G and Mrs H have been able to provide the paperwork from the point of sale in 
2005. These include the application form for the Inheritance Loan Trust (within which the 
investments were held), the welcome letter, the key features of the Investment Bond and 
the Personal Financial Review all of which I have reviewed in reaching my decision. 
Mr G and Mrs Hs circumstances.
The Personal Financial Review documents state the following;
Mr G was aged 52 years and Mrs H was 47.
Its recorded that the literature given to Mr G and Mrs H included the key features 
document, the risk brochure, risk meters, funds directory, structured product literature 
and a with profits comparison chart.
Mr G and Mrs Hs needs and priorities were identified as being inheritance tax 
planning and a capital investment for income and capital growth. 
Mrs G was only included in the personal financial review for identity purposes, and 
she didnt take part in the review. Mr G and Mrs H kept their finances separate but 
Mrs H was acting as trustee for the Investment Bond. So, most of the information 
recorded in the Personal Financial Review relates to Mr G. 
Mr G was self-employed and just starting up a new business after selling the 
previous one. His annual income was £40,000 and he had excess monthly income over expenses of around £1,600.
Its noted that a lump sum of just under £630,000 would be required in the event of 
Mr Gs death. 
Its recorded that Mr G understood the risk to capital, was comfortable with the level 
of equity exposure within the funds chosen, the difference between index and active 
funds, with profit bonuses, the need to spread assets, any special conditions that 
applied, comfortable with medium to long term investment for a minimum of five 
years. 
Under the soft facts section it says that Mr G had stated that [he] had previously 
invested in many types of investment through [a high street bank] and you 
understood the benefits of diversification with regards to products and product 
providers. When you had a mortgage it was on a capital repayment basis so as to 
have it cleared at the end of the term, you have never taken any risks with your 
property. You have invested in both deposits and asset back investments to 
maximise growth potential. You have your own personal pension plan with [a high 
street bank]. You do not recall the fund chosen or the risk associated with the fund. 
You have invested into the stock market via your Isa allocation to maximise tax 
breaks within the Isas to provide a variety of funds, although these investment funds 
have not been disclosed. You understand the potential gain and loss associated 
within stocks and shares, but by retaining a large amount on deposit this has reduced 
the risk overall portfolio. It is important to you to minimise income tax as you are a 
higher rate tax payer. For this reason you have fully funded your Isa allowances each 
year.
There was £507,100 held in cash, and £12,000 in an ISA which was invested for 
growth with a moderate risk and had been held for around four years. 
Four risk ratings are explained  from minimal, moderate, cautious, and high. With 
the exception of the ISA being recorded as a high risk investment, all other cash was 
classified as minimal risk. Including his house, Mr G had assets of £881,000 which 
would give rise to inheritance tax of £247,000.
Mr Gs current portfolio was recorded as being of a minimal risk and the revised 
portfolio would be cautious. He was prepared to go higher than this to achieve your 
objectives.
Mr G wanted to retain £269,000 in cash and invest £250,000 with a cautious attitude 
to risk. He was to invest into an Investment Bond. 
There is a section of notes which includes the following  You stated that you feel 
that you have a very good understanding of investments in general and the markets. 
You feel that interest rates are flat and will probably remain so with little room for 
improvement. You have been to numerous providers of investments including banks 
and you feel that a deposit account would not do what you want and being a higher 
rate tax payer would not be beneficial. You wished to invest in a product that could 
be used in inheritance tax planning and could be put in trust for your 2 children. You 
feel that investing directly into equities could be risky as the markets are stable now 
but could turn volatile at any moment. You know that fixed interest securities are 
suitable for providing a stable return but rates are not as attractive as they were. You 
thought that commercial property sector was a good market to be in to give the 
potential for good returns are stable and diverse. You stated that inheritance tax 
reduction is your main priority and want to invest £250,000 as long as the risk within 
the investment did not go too high. 
I dont think it unreasonable for me to rely on the information recorded in the Personal 
Financial Review as it was taken at the time of the sale. And I am mindful that it is nearly 20 years since the sale and memories can and do fade. I note that Mr G signed and dated the 
documents. If what was recorded wasnt right, Mr G had the opportunity to correct it. And I 
think its reasonable for ReAssure to have relied on what it was told by Mr G at the time. 
So, while Mr G has now said that he didnt have much investment experience or knowledge 
of investments, the soft facts and other notes recorded at the time of the sale suggest to me 
that he did have an active interest in stock markets, property and interest rates. 
Attitude to risk. 
For this investment, Mr Gs attitude to risk was recorded as being cautious. I have 
considered how this came about and how ReAssure made Mr G aware of the varying levels 
of risk implicit in different investments, particularly bearing in mind that he was seeking 
advice because he didnt have the knowledge or experience to make such an investment 
unaided. So, ReAssure needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account 
Mr Gs circumstances, understanding and knowledge after ascertaining his attitude to risk. 
Because of the lack of information from the time of the sale, Im not convinced that ReAssure 
has been able to show how it came to the conclusion that Mr G was a cautious investor but 
overall I think this was most likely discussed and agreed. And I note that its recorded he was 
provided with the key features document, the risk brochure, risk meters, funds directory, 
structured product literature and a with profits comparison chart. So, taking into account his 
ability to understand investment risk and clarification of his experience or knowledge to 
under the risk involved, I think Mr G reasonably understood the risk of the investments. 
I say this because of the soft facts that were recorded and repeated above  about Mr Gs 
interest and knowledge in the stock market, interest rates and property plus his lack of desire 
for direct equity investing. And I also note that ReAssures four levels of risk categories were 
quoted in full in the Personal Financial Review. For the cautious risk profile, it says;
You are looking for the potential of a return in excess of cash deposits but capital 
security is an important concern. You are willing to invest in non-cash assets and are 
comfortable that there may be some exposure to the stock market. You accept that 
your money is not guaranteed, the value of your investments will vary and your 
investment potential may be restricted.
So, taking all of this into account, I think the levels of risk implicit in investments were 
explained to and discussed with Mr G and he was content to expose his investment money 
to a cautious level of risk in order to achieve the potential for capital growth and income over 
the medium to long term. 
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mr Gs attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser, Ive considered whether what was recommended to him was right for his 
circumstances and financial objectives. And Ive borne in mind that this was a new lump sum 
available to him after selling a business and theres no record of him dealing with such a 
large sum before. 
But as mentioned above, its recorded that Mr G wanted to invest for inheritance tax 
mitigation purposes and his investment objective was for the potential for capital growth in 
excess of cash deposit returns and with an income stream. So, it seems likely that Mr G did 
want to explore the opportunity to make his money grow more than it would have done in a 
savings account. Taking everything into consideration Im persuaded it was most likely Mr G 
was willing to take some risk with his money. Mr G has said the investments recommended exposed him to too much risk. The property 
fund was risk rated by ReAssure as being of a moderate risk. And that the investment 
growth return of the cautious rated distribution fund of 6% suggested it posed a significant 
risk. 
While Mr G has provided us with some details of the funds from a year or so after he 
invested, Im not able to review in any great detail the investments held within both funds to 
form a more accurate opinion and so I have to take ReAssures risk ratings at face value. 
But I think its clear from the information recorded in the Personal Financial Review that Mr G 
was happy with property investment  in particular  and wanted a better return than he 
would receive from cash deposits. And Ive also borne in mind that Mr G retained a 
significant amount of his cash on deposits  just under £270,000. 
The retention of this large sum is recognised by the adviser as being important for the 
portfolio overall as by retaining a large amount on deposit this has reduced the risk overall 
[of the] portfolio. So, I dont agree with Mr G that the advice he received exposed him to a 
higher level of risk than he was prepared to take. And theres nothing to suggest to me that 
the risk he was exposed to was too high risk for him taking into account his overall 
circumstances. 
I dont think by making the investments was unreasonable advice. Mr G was aware of stock 
market investment and the risks implicit in that. And those stock market investments would 
allow him to see the benefits of that type of asset while limiting the impact on his overall 
financial standing were those risks to materialise. But in order for him to do so, I would 
expect to see that all of the options and risks were clearly explained to him. 
While the information I have to consider is limited, I think it was more likely Mr G was given 
sufficient information for him to be aware of the varying levels of risks and potential rewards 
implicit in different types of stock market investments. And Im satisfied he was made aware 
of the alternatives that were available to him. Over and above anything he was told by the 
adviser, Mr G himself refers to the fact he had been to numerous providers of investments 
including banks and you feel that a deposit account would not do what you want and being a 
higher rate tax payer would not beneficial. 
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than cautious risk options available 
to Mr G and Mrs H at the time that could have potentially offered them, and the trust, better 
returns than savings. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that they were given and what 
other options were potentially available to them. Rather its to consider whether the advice 
that was given to Mr G and Mrs H was suitable for them at the time and as identified prior to 
the investment and whether it was sufficiently explained to Mr G.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont find that the advice given to Mr G and Mrs H was unsuitable bearing in 
mind Mr Gs personal and financial circumstances, his requirements for the trust, his attitude 
to risk and his investment requirements. Based on the limited information that is available to 
me and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, it follows that I dont uphold Mr G 
and Mrs Hs complaint as I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that the investments 
recommended were unsuitable or exposed Mr G and the trust to a too high level of risk.
Overall, I dont find the risk Mr G and Mrs H  within the trust  was too high risk for the 
trusts objectives. No doubt Mr G and Mrs H will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached it. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman