DRN-1109947
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
October 2004. Mrs E says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Mrs E bought the policy in October 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
sale took place online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays says Mrs E would have been given a choice about the PPI. In support of what its 
said, Barclays has referred us to copies of screenshots from its online application process 
which it says was in use at the time Mrs E applied for her credit card and selected the PPI.
These screenshots show that Mrs E would have had to select yes or no for the PPI, before 
completing the online credit card application. Based on the screen shots provided, I think 
both options were given equal prominence. Overall, I think its more likely than not Mrs E 
would have understood that the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have selected 
the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs E got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs E chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions  so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs E has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. She also says she would 
have had been entitled to significant redundancy pay from her employer and also had some 
savings which she could have used to help cover her credit card repayments. Having thought about what Mrs E has said about her sick pay and redundancy pay, I dont 
think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs E would have received from her employer and 
would have potentially paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit 
in addition to any redundancy pay she may have received. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs E has said about her savings and whether this makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. I dont think it does. In the event of a successful 
claim the PPI would have paid a benefit, which would have enabled Mrs E to use her 
savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a difficult 
time.
So overall, I think Mrs E could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because:
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs E, 
that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman