DRN-2934040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim they made 
on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A made a claim under the legal expenses section of a travel insurance policy 
provided by UKI. They claimed for breach of contract by their tour operator following a 
holiday.
UKI appointed solicitors to deal with the case. After carrying out enquiries and corresponding 
with the tour operators representatives, the solicitors concluded that the costs of pursuing 
the case were likely to exceed the amounts likely to be recovered from the other party. 
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with this and complained to UKI. They complained that there 
had been delays caused by the solicitors and that correspondence hadnt been responded 
to. UKI considered that, although the solicitors had explained what had happened and why 
the claim had taken a long time to proceed, Mr and Mrs A had been waiting a long time for a 
resolution. It agreed to make a payment to Mr and Mrs A which was equivalent to additional 
costs incurred by Mr and Mrs A during the holiday and which had formed part of their claim.
Mr and Mrs A consider that this amount is inadequate. They say that their claim against the 
tour operator also included a request for compensation for the distress caused to them and 
for loss of earnings as they were late returning from the holiday.
UKI declined to make any further payment to Mr and Mrs A, as the solicitors said that the 
nature of their claim meant that such costs were unlikely to be recovered through legal 
action. As Mr and Mrs A remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think UKI needed to do any more. She thought that UKIs actions 
were in line with the advice received from the solicitors and the policy terms and conditions. 
She also said that the actions of the solicitors arent within the jurisdiction of our service.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with this, their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policys terms and conditions say that UKI can decide to settle your claim by paying you 
the compensation you are likely to be awarded by a court instead of starting or continuing 
your claim or legal proceedings. This is whats happened here  the amount paid by UKI is 
in line with what the solicitors said would likely be awarded in the event that Mr and Mrs As 
legal action was successful. UKI has explained to Mr and Mrs A why it did so, which is that 
the solicitors advised that it was uneconomic to pursue the other party further.
I know that Mr and Mrs A have said that the settlement should be higher, but Ive seen the 
legal advice given to UKI which details why the solicitors didnt think that a court would make 
an award for such matters. In summary, they said that it was highly unlikely that 
compensation would be awarded for a breach of contract claim, and that a loss of earnings 
claim would be unsuccessful as the claim would be for additional costs incurred by Mr and 
Mrs A  theyre self employed and had to have staff cover their absence and so pay 
additional wages. The solicitors considered that the party which had suffered a financial loss 
there was Mr and Mrs As business, rather than them as individuals. They also said that 
consequential losses of this nature were also unlikely to be awarded by a court.
The solicitors have set out their advice on the various issues and explained why it wouldnt 
be economical to proceed with litigation. Its reasonable for UKI to act in accordance with 
that advice unless its apparent that there are factual errors in their advice or the advice 
given was obviously wrong to a layperson. I cant agree this is the case here. Mr and Mrs A 
havent provided anything from a different lawyer to challenge the advice given to UKI. 
I conclude that UKI acted reasonably when it settled the claim in line with the policy terms, 
and based its settlement on the advice received from the appointed solicitors.
Mr and Mrs A are also unhappy about the way that the solicitors handled the claim, 
particularly the length of time taken to reach this outcome. Our services jurisdiction doesnt 
extend to the conduct of the solicitors so Im unable to comment on this. I havent seen 
anything from Mr and Mrs A to suggest that UKI should have been intervening or acting 
differently as all of their contact (and therefore their concerns about the delays) appears to 
have been with the solicitors.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman