DRN-3409799
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr P on behalf of the Estate of Mrs P. He is represented 
by Mr M. 
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) did not fairly compensate Mrs Ps 
estate after she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a catalogue 
account. 
Aviva was not the business that provided credit to Mrs P. But it was the PPI underwriter and 
it has accepted responsibility for the PPI sale
What happened
Mr P complained to Aviva about the mis-sale of PPI to Mrs P. Although Aviva is ultimately 
responsible for the complaint, it asked a third party to carry out an investigation on its behalf. 
The complaint was eventually upheld, and Aviva offered to compensate Mrs Ps estate for 
that mis-sale. Aviva said that the PPI policy was added to Mrs Ps account on 27 April 1998, 
and that the cover had been cancelled on 14 October 2014. It also said Mrs P had paid 
£7.07 in total for PPI. It also offered to pay a further £12.18 in simple interest to compensate 
the estate for the time that Mrs P had been out of pocket because of the PPI premiums. After 
tax was deducted, Avivas total offer was £16.18. 
Through his representative, Mr P disagreed with that view. It was argued on his behalf that 
the PPI had run for longer than Aviva had acknowledged. It was also argued that 
compensation had not been calculated correctly because Aviva had not refunded all of the 
interest Mrs P had paid because of the PPI policy.  The representative also said that the 
third party had offered to pay £30 to Mr P because of the manner in which it had handled his 
complaint. The representative said Mr P did not accept that payment. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint about the way in which the complaint had been 
handled should be set up against the third-party business. He also thought the PPI 
compensation had been calculated fairly. 
Through his representative, Mr P disagreed with that view and the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agree PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to consider what happened at the point 
of sale. I have to consider whether the offer Aviva made to settle the complaint is fair. 
I know that Mr P complained about the manner in which the complaint was handled by the 
third-party business, and he was not happy that the complaint had been split. I can see that 
another ombudsman has already issued a decision about that matter, and so I cannot revisit 
that issue again.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr P, but for the reasons set out below, I havent upheld the 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The PPI dates 
I can see that Mr P initially disagreed with how long the PPI policy was said to have run for. 
I have seen copies of Mrs Ps account transactions from 15 March 1992 when the account 
was opened. Having considered that information, I am satisfied that the first PPI premium of 
was charged to the account on 3 May 1998. The final premium was charged on 8 March 
1999. Although Mrs Ps catalogue account was open for some time after 1999, she did not 
use the account after that time, and so no further PPI was charged. 
From those statements, I have calculated that Mrs P was charged £7.07 for PPI in total. My 
calculation matches that of Aviva exactly. 
Fair compensation 
Ive next considered whether Aviva fairly calculated how much compensation to pay to Mr P 
for mis-selling PPI to Mrs P. 
When PPI is mis-sold, so far as it is possible to do so, I would expect a business to return 
the consumer to the position they would be in now if PPI had never been added in the first 
place. I would expect the business to refund of all the PPI premiums charged, as well as any 
additional interest and charges that were incurred because of the PPI. And the business 
would also have to pay 8% simple interest to compensate the consumer for the period when 
they were out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Looking at the account transactions, I can see that Aviva offered to repay all of Mrs Ps 
premiums to her estate. It has also paid 8% simple interest to compensate for the period 
both the estate and Mrs P were out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Mr P said he thought Mrs P had paid interest on the PPI premiums and he was unhappy that 
Aviva didnt appear to have refunded that interest. However, the account Mrs P had in this 
regard was a catalogue account. I wouldnt usually expect interest to be charged on 
accounts like this. Indeed, I have seen all the account transactions, which I understand have 
also been provided to the representative. I am satisfied that the PPI premiums did not attract 
interest or any additional charges, and so no refund of interest or charges is due in this case. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Avivas offer is in line with what I would expect. That means the 
offer is fair. 
I understand that Aviva sent a cheque to Mr P, but he told our adjudicator he had not cashed 
it. If Mr P accepts my decision and he has not already received compensation, Aviva will 
need to reissue a cheque and recalculate 8% interest up to the date it is paid to Mr P.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited. However, if Mr P has not 
already been paid compensation, Aviva Insurance Limited will need to reissue the cheque to 
Mr P and recalculate 8% interest as I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman