DRN-3124392
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down a claim on its business interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr L, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf. 
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with Hiscox. E claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. It said the shop it traded from had been forced to 
close meaning it couldnt trade. 
Hiscox initially turned down Es claim but reconsidered it following the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. 
Hiscox told E its claim was covered and made an interim payment of £2,500 due to Es 
financial difficulties. However, on further assessment of the claim, Hiscox said E wasnt 
covered because the premises insured by the policy hadnt been forced to close by a public 
authority. 
E complained to Hiscox. Hiscox accepted they hadnt dealt with the claim as well as they 
should have done and offered E £1,000 compensation in addition to the £2,500 previously 
paid which they didnt seek to recover. However, Hiscox maintained their decision to decline 
Es claim. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, E brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
that the term for non-damage denial of access provided cover for Es claim as the closure 
wasnt due to an incident within one mile of the insured premises. He didnt think the term for 
public authority provided cover either, as the insured address was Mr Ls residential 
address and as such it hadnt been required to close. 
E provided a detailed response as to why it didnt agree with the investigators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint. E said Hiscox had initially asked for 
evidence of a case of Covid-19 within one mile of its trading premises and this had been 
provided. E said it had been solely trading from the retail store and therefore the residential 
address had only been provided to comply with requirements to provide a correspondence 
address. E thought that our investigator had misinterpreted the findings of the High Court. E 
also explained the considerable impact of the claim being declined had on both E and Mr L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has made a number of detailed points. Id like to reassure E that I have considered all of 
the points it has raised; however, Im not going to address them all and will focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
E has also complained about the time it took Hiscox to deal with Es claim and about 
incorrect information being provided. That is being dealt with separately and in this decision I 
am only considering Es complaint about Hiscox turning down its claim. E has also said that 
Hiscox misrepresented or mis-sold the policy. If E remains unhappy with how the policy was 
sold that would need to be raised as a separate complaint.  
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Es business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Hiscox have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Es 
claim. Id like to reassure E that I have considered the whole policy but will only comment on 
the parts I think are most relevant. 
Non-damage denial of access
This provides cover for an interruption in Es business activities as a result of:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access 
to the insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order 
of the government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours;
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of the relevant law. In this case I 
agree with our investigators interpretation and think the High Court judgment in the FCA test 
case is relevant as the Court considered this type of wording and this wasnt appealed to the 
Supreme Court. 
Paragraph 405 of the judgment says:
Saying that the pandemic is everywhere does not mean that it is present at 
particular insured premises and certainly does not mean that it amounts to an 
incident occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment go on to say:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or 
incidents which occur within the one mile radius
It follows that there is no cover under the NDDA clause in respect of business
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic...
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court. I think this term provides cover 
in the event of an incident within one mile of the insured premises. And I dont think Covid-19 
would be considered an incident within one mile of Es premises, rather than the country as 
a whole. Therefore, this term doesnt provide cover for Es claim.Public authority
This provides cover for an interruption in Es business activities as a result of:
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public
authority during the period of insurance following:
a. a murder or suicide;
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak
of which must be notified to the local authority;
c. injury or illness of any person traceable to food or drink consumed on the insured
premises;
d. defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements;
e. vermin or pests at the insured premises;
The policy defines insured premises as:
The space you occupy at the premises stated in the schedule. This includes any 
outbuildings and annexes you occupy on the same premises.
The most relevant of these is b. So, for this term to provide cover, the interruption to Es 
business activities would need to be as a result of Es inability to use its insured premises 
due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of any notifiable 
human infectious or human contagious disease.
From what E has said its business was impacted because it was unable to sell its products 
from the retail store that it traded from. However, the shop isnt the premises insured by the 
policy. The insured premises named on the schedule is a residential address and not the 
store that E traded from. 
I understand E said that this residential address was only provided due to the requirement to 
provide a correspondence address - and if E remains unhappy about the reason this 
address is listed on the schedule, it can raise that as a separate complaint about the sale of 
the policy. However, this is the address that is defined in the schedule as the insured 
premises. Ive looked at the regulations in place at the time and I dont think the restrictions 
imposed by the government meant that there was an inability for E to use its insured 
premises. So this term doesnt provide cover for Es claim.
I recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling about this, given the considerable financial impact this 
has had on both E and Mr L. However, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont 
think I can fairly require Hiscox to pay Es claim. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman