DRN-4000176
The complaint
Mr L complains that Scottish Widows Limited gave him incorrect information about its ability 
to provide him with monthly valuations of his pension savings.
What happened
Mr L held pension savings with Scottish Widows. On 6 July 2022 he got in touch with the 
firm by telephone to discuss his pension investments. He expressed concern that a recent 
statement he had been sent had shown his pension investments had fallen in value. He 
asked how he could monitor his pension investments on a more regular basis.
Scottish Widows says that it told Mr L that he could register for its online service to allow him 
to obtain regular valuations of his pension savings. And it said it would send him some fund 
factsheets so he could check whether the investments he held remained suitable for his 
circumstances. Mr L then asked if he could be sent monthly statements showing the value of 
his investments. Scottish Widows confirmed it would send that request to the relevant 
department for it to be actioned.
On 22 July Mr L had a further phone conversation with Scottish Widows. On that call he was 
told the information he had previously been given, about receiving monthly valuations, was 
incorrect and that this wasnt a service that Scottish Widows could offer. He was told that he 
could obtain regular valuations either by using the provided online access, or by making 
monthly requests by phone or in writing.
Mr L took his pension benefits in October 2022. At that time he complained to Scottish 
Widows that the value of his benefits had fallen further. And he said that if hed been given 
the monthly valuation information that had previously been offered he would have taken his 
benefits sooner, and received a higher value. Scottish Widows accepted that it had provided 
incorrect information to Mr L and paid him £75 for the inconvenience hed been caused. But, 
unhappy with that compensation, Mr L referred his complaint to us.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that 
Scottish Widows had already resolved Mr Ls complaint in a fair and reasonable manner. So 
she didnt think that Scottish Widows needed to do anything further.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. He repeated his earlier claim that a payment 
amounting to £3,000 would fairly compensate him for the mistake that Scottish Widows had 
made. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There seems to be little doubt that Mr L was given incorrect information by Scottish Widows 
in July 2022. He asked to receive monthly statements on his pension investments. And he 
was told that his request would be sent to the relevant department to be actioned. But just 
over two weeks later he was told that Scottish Widows couldnt offer him routine statements 
at a monthly frequency, and he would need to request that information manually each time, 
either by phone or in writing.
Scottish Widows has accepted that it gave incorrect information to Mr L. So in this decision 
I need to consider the impact of that incorrect information on Mr Ls pension savings, and 
whether Scottish Widows has taken appropriate steps to put things right for Mr L.
I can see that during his phone call on 6 July Mr L was given a valuation of his pension 
savings. And following that call, as agreed, he was sent factsheets about the funds into 
which his pension savings were invested, and details of the charges that he needed to pay 
on those investments. So, at that stage I think Mr L was in receipt of all the information hed 
requested, and that Scottish Widows had agreed to send to him.
As I said earlier, Mr Ls request was that he should be sent information about the value of his 
pension savings on a monthly basis. Scottish Widows initially agreed to that request in error. 
But the error Scottish Widows made, in agreeing to Mr Ls request, was corrected a little 
more than two weeks later  well before the next valuation information would be expected by 
Mr L. At that time he was told he would need to make a manual request each month for a 
valuation to be provided.
So it seems to me that there was no time that Mr L was expecting information that had been 
promised by Scottish Widows, but that wasnt sent. He received the initial information 
promptly. And well before the following months information was due, Mr L was told that 
Scottish Widows would be unable to provide it on a routine basis. So I cannot agree that the 
incorrect information Mr L had been given by Scottish Widows caused him to be unable to 
monitor the value of his pension savings.
I appreciate that Mr L would have been disappointed when he learned that Scottish Widows 
couldnt routinely provide him with monthly valuations. But it is for Scottish Widows to decide 
the services that it wishes to offer to its customers. It isnt for me to dictate to the firm that it 
should routinely provide information more frequently than its regulator requires. And the 
regulatory requirements are for annual statements to be issued.
Scottish Widows told Mr L how he could request more frequent valuations to be provided. It 
offered him the opportunity to use its online platform to receive valuations on demand. Or he 
could request either by phone or in writing that paper valuations to be sent. So I cannot 
reasonably conclude that Mr L was denied access to the information he says he would have used to monitor his pension investments and to decide at what point he should encash his 
benefits.
Scottish Widows has paid Mr L £75 for the disappointment it caused to him when it initially 
led him to believe that statements could be routinely issued each month. Given what I have 
said above about the impacts of that error on Mr L, I conclude that compensation to be fair 
and reasonable. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld, or that Scottish Widows 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman