DRN-2581132
The complaint
Ms H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled her motor 
insurance policy and declined her claim following a motor accident. 
What happened
A named driver on Ms Hs policy had an accident and Ms H made a claim. Watfords 
engineer inspected the car and deemed it to be beyond economical repair. Watford offered 
Ms H £8,600 as the pre-accident value of her car and Ms H accepted this. Watford then 
obtained further comments from its independent engineer. He said that the left-hand rear 
tyre was below legal limits. Watford then declined the claim due to a policy exclusion for cars 
kept in an unroadworthy limit. It thought the tyre had burst and its condition had led to the 
accident. And it then cancelled the policy for the breach in policy terms. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Ms Hs last MOT had 
found two tyres to be close to the legal limit. And he thought Ms H had provided evidence to 
Watford that shed replaced these. He saw images of the tyres after the accident and 
couldnt see that the left hand rear one had burst or that it lacked tread. He thought Watford 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence to decline the claim.
The investigator thought Watford had unfairly declined the claim and cancelled the policy. He 
thought it should reassess the claim and the cancellation in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy. He thought that if a settlement was then paid to Ms H, Watford should add 
interest to this. And he thought it should pay Ms H £200 compensation for her trouble and 
inconvenience. 
Watford replied that the engineer had measured all the tyres and the left hand rear one was 
found to be below legal limits. It said Ms H had told it that a tyre had burst causing her to 
lose control of the car.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms H 
and to Watford on 7 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Ms H felt frustrated by Watfords decision. She thought her claim had 
been settled and then Watford changed its decision. She explained that shed been without 
transport for eleven months since the accident and was being pursued for the outstanding 
finance. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I could see that Watford relied on a policy exclusion to decline Ms Hs claim. This states that 
26. Loss or damage if at the time of an incident, regardless of type, be that accident, Fire, 
malicious damage or Theft, Your Car is used in an unsafe or unroadworthy condition or, 
where such regulations require, does not have a current M.O.T certificate (You may be 
asked to provide details to show that Your Car was regularly maintained and kept in a good 
condition).
I thought this was a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I didnt find it 
unusual or unreasonable. But it was significant, and I would expect it to be set out clearly in 
the policy wording, which I think it was. And I could also see the policy also required Ms H to 
maintain her car under the Care of your Car section. So I thought the term was sufficiently 
brought to the consumers attention and I thought Watford could reasonably rely on it to 
decline a claim. 
But I didnt think this would be fair or reasonable in Ms Hs particular circumstances. Ill now 
explain why I thought this. 
Watford relied on the following to decide to decline Ms Hs claim: it said shed told it that a 
tyre had burst; the left-hand rear tyre was measured by its engineer to be below legal limits; 
and, the last MOT had found the two rear tyres to be close to the legal limits. 
But, from the images I saw of Ms Hs car taken at the scene of the accident, this tyre hadnt 
burst. Ms H recalled that she may have told Watford that she thought a tyre may have burst, 
causing the accident. But she said this was just her thought at the time. Watfords engineer 
didnt provide a photo of this tyre, which I thought was surprising if it had been damaged. So 
I hadnt seen evidence that a tyre burst and so caused the accident.
The engineer said the tyre was below legal limits and he provided measurements of all of the 
tyres. But he didnt provide a photograph of the gauge readings to validate this. Nor did he 
provide a photograph showing the tread. I thought Watford had relied on the engineers 
statement. But I hadnt seen that Watford had sufficient evidence that the tyre was below the 
legal limits and so justified the significant decision to decline the claim. 
Ms H provided evidence in the form of an invoice for two replacement tyres dated four 
months before the accident. I could see that the invoice didnt state Ms Hs name. But I 
thought Ms H had been consistent in stating that she had replaced the tyres following the 
MOT advisories, and so I had no reason to doubt her. I didnt think new tyres would be worn 
to below legal limits in this time. 
So I thought Ms H had shown that she did maintain her car in a roadworthy condition. And I 
didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Watford to rely on the policy exclusion to decline her 
claim. 
Watford wrote to Ms H after it had declined her claim cancelling her policy for breach of the 
policy conditions. But, as Ive explained above, I didnt think Watford had justified this 
decision. So I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for it to rely on this to cancel the policy 
and I thought Watford should remove records of this and refund any charges applied. 
Ms H was caused considerable distress and inconvenience by Watfords unfair decision. Our 
investigator recommended that it should pay her £200 compensation for this. But I didnt 
think this was enough in the circumstances as Ms H had been without her car and 
settlement for so long and had suffered inconvenience because of this. I thought Watford 
should pay her £400 compensation for this. This was in keeping with what Id award in 
similar circumstances.Subject to any further representations by Ms H or Watford, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited to reconsider the claim, add interest to any settlement, remove any cancellation 
markers and charges, and pay Ms H £400 compensation for her trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H replied that she had nothing further to add. Watford replied that it disagreed with my 
provisional decision for the following reasons:
1. Its engineer had provided depth measurements for all four tyres, so it had no cause for 
doubt hed made any mistakes, despite the lack of photographic evidence.
2. It thought the measurements showed that the rear tyres hadnt been replaced after the 
MOT as they were unlikely to be so worn down in the interim before the accident.
3. It thought Ms H hadnt provided satisfactory evidence that shed replaced the tyres. It 
asked for this now. 
Watford was alerted to the possible tyre fault by its independent engineer who inspected the 
car after the accident. He supplied details of his inspection, including measurements of the 
tyre treads, and photographs of the cars damage. Unfortunately the engineer didnt 
substantiate the tyre measurements with photographs showing the gauge readings of the 
measurements or clear photographs of the tyres showing their tread. 
He said in his report:
We note that the left hand rear tyre is below the legal requirement therefore, we suggest a 
physical inspection to confirm your liability in this matter and suggest a review of incident 
circumstances for relevance.
But I cant see that Watford made a further physical inspection. It relied on the independent 
engineers measurement of the tyre depth to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
I think Watford made a mistake in deciding that a tyre had burst and caused the accident. 
This error arose because it simply relied on a statement made by Ms H rather than relying 
on physical evidence, which was in fact contradictory. And I think Watford should have made 
the physical inspection suggested by the independent engineer. So Im still not satisfied that 
Watford has sufficient evidence to justify a decision which had a such very serious outcome 
for Ms H.
Ms H provided an invoice for two rear tyres. The cars registration and Ms Hs name arent 
included. But I dont think this is unusual for small suppliers and cash sales. The invoice is 
dated a month after the cars MOT which had identified that the rear tyres were close to their 
legal limits. The supplier was from near Ms Hs address. Ms H has been consistent in stating 
when she replaced her cars tyres. So I think, on balance, that its most likely that Ms H did 
replace the tyres as she said she had.
Ms H sent the invoice to Watford almost a year ago, and a month after the accident when 
Watford first declined the claim. I can see that this invoice was passed to the policys 
underwriters who maintained their position, but without explanation. Watford didnt then ask 
Ms H for an invoice with her name and the cars registration. And so I think its unfair for it to 
ask for this now as its unlikely to be provided. Watford said new tyres wouldnt have worn to below or close to legal limits in the four 
months between their replacement and the accident. But as I dont think it has satisfactorily 
established the tread depths of the rear tyres, then I dont think this point is relevant. 
So, Im still not satisfied that Watford has justified its decision to decline Ms Hs claim and to 
cancel Ms Hs policy in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. So I think it should 
put things right for Ms H, as Ive stated above in my provisional view. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms H, I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the 
following:
1. Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
2. If a settlement is paid to Ms H, then interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date of repudiation to the date of settlement. 
3. Remove any cancellation markers from Ms Hs record and any databases where its 
been recorded and refund any cancellation charges. 
4. Pay Ms H £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
handling of her claim. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford to take off tax from this interest. Watford must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman