DRN-3849111
The complaint
Mr G complains that his Capital One (Europe) plc credit card was charged off and defaulted. 
He wants his account reinstated.
What happened
Mr G fell behind with his credit card payments due to ill health meaning he couldnt work. He 
says he called Capital One on several occasions and wasnt provided with the support he 
should have been given his circumstances. He wants his credit card reinstated.  
Capital One says that Mr Gs account was permanently restricted on 14 December 2021 
when he was behind on payments for five months. It says when Mr G contacted it in March 
2022 to ask for the restriction to be lifted this was considered but the decision was made for 
the restriction to remain in place. It said it had several conversations with Mr G advising the 
risk of his account defaulting, but he didnt make the required payments and so the account 
was defaulted in June 2022. Capital One said the account restriction and default were 
applied correctly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint in regard to the decision to default the account 
due to non-payment. He did think that Mr G hadnt been provided with the service he should 
have and recommended that Capital One pay Mr G £50 because of this. Capital One agreed 
to pay compensation of £50.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he should have been treated with 
compassion and given more leeway due to his illness. He said he had to make numerous 
calls chasing Capital One which caused him additional stress. He thought a higher amount 
of compensation should be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Mr Gs illness. It must have been a terribly tough time for him, and I can 
understand how this meant he fell behind with his payments. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that Capital One had done something wrong or 
treated Mr G unfairly in some way.
When Mr G fell behind with his payments Capital One contacted him about this. It made him 
aware of the situation on his account and the action that could be taken. 
The letter sent in November 2021, noted the missed payments on Mr Gs account and 
provided him with contact details to get in touch. It explained that if a new payment plan 
couldnt be set up or payment couldnt be made then Mr G risked permanently losing his 
card. Mr G did get in touch and a payment plan was set up. Unfortunately, Mr G didnt keep 
to the agreed payments and the plan was broken. He then received a letter saying he had 
permanently lost the use of his card. The letter further confirmed that he wouldnt incur any 
further fees on the account and that his account was at risk of default.
I understand how upsetting Mr G must have found this letter and why he wanted to have his 
card use reinstated, but as he had been provided with a warning of what would happen if the 
required payments werent made I cant say that Capital One was wrong to take the action it 
did. 
Further payment plans were set up, but these werent maintained, and a notice of default 
was issued. In March 2022, Mr G contacted Capital One and explained his situation 
including the issues he had experienced with his health. I can understand how upsetting this 
would have been, and I can see that Capital One tried to explain what needed to be done to 
avoid the default being applied. I appreciate that Mr G was focussed on getting his card 
reinstated and Capital One agreed to review this. I find that his was a reasonable response 
to the issues Mr G had raised.
In April 2022, it was confirmed that Mr Gs credit card wasnt being reinstated. I appreciate 
this will have been disappointing, but I find that Capital One had provided him notice of the 
issue with his account and action that may be taken. It had then reviewed its decision in light 
of the information Mr G had provided. Given this I do not find that it acted incorrectly or 
unfairly by taking the action it did. It then tried to work with Mr G in order to avoid a default 
being applied to his account. Unfortunately, as Mr G didnt make the payments required a 
default was applied in June 2022.
Overall, I can understand why Mr G has been upset by the experience he has had with his 
credit card being suspended and then permanently stopped. I can appreciate this was all 
happening at a very difficult time for him. However, in this case, I can see that Capital One 
did try to work with him and reviewed the situation. I think it provided him with the information 
he needed and opportunities to correct the situation on his account. Therefore, I do not find 
that Capital One did anything wrong by the actions it took on Mr Gs account.
Our investigator noted that Capital One didnt provide the service it should have, with a delay 
in a call being returned and Mr G not being provided an update in April as promised. I 
appreciate this caused additional stress for Mr G and meant he had to chase for an update. 
Therefore, I agree that he should be compensated for this. I note Mr Gs suggestion of £200 
compensation but in this case, having considered the issue that arose and how Mr G was 
treated, I think the £50 recommended by our investigator and accepted Capital One is 
reasonable.
In conclusion, I know Mr G will be disappointed by this decision, and I want to reiterate how 
sorry I am to hear of the health issues he has experienced and the challenging time he has 
faced. I have to base my decision on the evidence and provide a fair outcome for the parties 
involved. In this case I think Capital One tried assist Mr G before his account was suspended 
and defaulted and so I do not find I can uphold this part of his complaint and I find the £50 
compensation is reasonable given the service issues experienced.
Putting things right
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr G £50 compensation as it has agreed, for not 
providing the service it should have. My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman