DRN-4374461
The complaint
The estate of Mr T (the estate) complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) handled their claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare product funded by a loan BPF provided.   
What happened
The complaint in this case relates to the purchase of a timeshare product in the joint names 
of Mr and Mrs T. However, the underlying claim relates to a loan in Mr Ts sole name. 
Because of that Mr T is the only eligible claimant here. And as a result, he is the only eligible 
complainant. 
During the course of this services investigations, Mr T unfortunately passed away. As a 
consequence, the complainant is now the estate. However, for simplicity, I may refer to Mr T 
and Mrs T at times throughout my decision.
In or around late 2011, Mr and Mrs T agreed to purchase a timeshare product from a 
supplier who Ill refer to as D. The product purchase provided an allocation of 5,000 points 
together with membership in a scheme operated by D. The points allocation could be used 
to access holiday accommodation and benefits from a portfolio operated by D. The purchase 
price agreed for the product was £6,500. A deposit of £1,300 was paid by Mr T using a credit 
card in his sole name. The balance of £5,200 was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement 
with BPF  also in Mr Ts sole name.
In September 2017, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr T submitted a 
claim to BPF under the CCA. The CMC said the product had been misrepresented to Mr T. 
And under section 75 (S75) of the CCA, BPF were jointly liable with D for those 
misrepresentations. In particular, the CMC said D had told Mr T:
he would receive a guaranteed yearly rental income which would cover the 
maintenance fees and provide a profit; and
the purchase of more points would qualify him for the Fractional1 points scheme, 
but this scheme was found to be available to both members and non-members alike.
The CMC also thought thered been a breach of contract by D that BPF were also jointly 
liable for. They said Mr T was entitled to receive notice, attend and speak at all general 
meetings. But no such notice was received.
Finally, the CMC thought an unfair relationship existed under section 140A (S140A) of the 
CCA as:
Mr T had been pressured to enter into the loan agreement;
D had failed to conduct a proper assessment of Mr Ts ability to afford the loan 
agreed;
D had a fiduciary relationship with Mr T, failed to review other financial products 
available to Mr T and commissions paid by BPF to D hadnt been declared;
1 A Fractional Timeshare product can provide owners with a beneficial share in a clearly identified and 
real property.
contract terms allowing forfeiture of the membership for non-payment of maintenance 
charges had been found to be unfair by a court;
In response to Mr Ts claim, BPF didnt agree the timeshare product had been 
misrepresented or that theres been a breach of contract. BPF also didnt think there was 
anything that might lead to the existence of an unfair relationship under S140A. Mr T didnt 
accept BPFs findings and response to his claim. So, the CMC referred his complaint to this 
service.
One of this services investigators considered all the information available. Having done so, 
they also couldnt find any reason that might lead to the complaint being upheld. The estate 
and the CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Having considered everything, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our 
investigator, I considered a number of issues which I didnt feel were previously fully 
addressed and wanted to give both sides the chance to respond. So, I issued a provisional 
decision on 30 August 2023.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
T paid for the timeshare points with a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement, so it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr Ts is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken 
this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr T and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the 
product points purchased were funded under the credit agreement, this is deemed to 
be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of Mr Ts 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. 
While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the 
consumer, we do not provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service 
isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to 
pursue any claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.Mr Ts timeshare experience
In their response to Mr Ts claim, BPF pointed out that he first purchased a timeshare 
with D in 1999. Although Ive seen no evidence to support that, theres been no 
suggestion that wasnt the case. And accepting that Mr Ts previous membership and 
product holdings may have differed from the one in this case, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that he had a reasonably strong awareness about the products hed 
previously purchased, how they operated and any associated costs. I also think its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr T was familiar with D (as a timeshare supplier) and 
the sales presentations given by them.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr T something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr T to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that he reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to buy 
the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr T was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product he purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports Mr Ts assertions, like marketing material or 
documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what he says he was told. In 
particular that he would receive a guaranteed yearly rental income which would cover 
the maintenance fees and provide a profit
Furthermore, BPF suggest D have no record that Mr T made any enquiries about 
using Ds timeshare rental programme. And as a consequence, his timeshare points 
were never included in that scheme. While Ive not seen any evidence to support that 
assertion, equally theres no suggestion by the estate or the CMC that wasnt the 
case. 
Ive considered the allegation relating to the purchase qualifying Mr T to participate in 
Ds fractional timeshare scheme. BPF point out that such a scheme wasnt planned 
or in existence in 2011. And from my own knowledge, Im aware that Ds fractional 
scheme didnt come about until sometime after Mr Ts purchase here. 
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that D did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The breach of contract claim under S75
The CMC allege that D had breached the underlying contract by not inviting Mr T to 
attend a general meeting when they were required to do so. However, I havent seen 
any evidence to support this allegation. 
Section 308 of the Companies Act 2006 explains:
Notice of a general meeting of a company must be given-
(a) In hard copy form,
(b) In electronic form, or
(c) By means of a website [],
or partly by one such means and partly by another.I havent seen any evidence that D didnt comply with this requirement other than the 
CMCs suggestion that Mr T didnt receive an invitation. Of course, non-receipt isnt 
the same as failure to provide notice. Furthermore, BPF pointed out that Mr T hadnt 
opted to receive notifications of general meetings by post when given the option. So, 
notices wouldve been sent to him by email. 
BPF also confirm that minutes from such meetings are posted on Ds website  
which Mr T was registered to access. And given it appears Mr T had held timeshare 
products with D since 1999, its reasonable to conclude he wouldve been familiar 
with Ds process here. And where invitations hadnt been received, I wouldve 
expected him to raise this with them. But theres no evidence to suggest he did that 
here.
In any event, the CMC havent explained how any alleged breach ultimately resulted 
in a loss for Mr T. And on that basis, I cant reasonably say that BPFs response was 
unreasonable here.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (BPF) and the debtor (Mr T) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
As Ive already said, only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when looking at the various 
allegations.
The allegation of pressure
The CMC allege that Mr T was pressured to enter into the loan agreement.
I acknowledge how Ds sales presentation might have felt like a pressured sale. 
However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly 
understood, I find it hard to argue that Mr T agreed to the purchase and the loan 
when he simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he 
went on to say something to D or BPF, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to 
it when he didnt want to. And I havent been provided with a credible explanation for 
why Mr T didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase, or the loan agreement 
within the 14-day cooling off period permitted in each case. 
So, if Mr T only agreed to the purchase and associated loan because he was 
pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I 
havent seen anything substantive to suggest Mr T was obviously harassed or 
coerced.  And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr T made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise 
choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired.
What were Ds fiduciary responsibilities to Mr T?
Part of Mr Ts S140A claim is based upon the status of D as the introducer of the 
loan, and their resultant responsibilities towards him. Its argued that the payment of any commission by BPF to D wasnt declared to Mr T. Its also suggested that D 
didnt consider or present other financial options to Mr T.
I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid D commission was incompatible with 
their role in the transaction. D wasnt acting as an agent of Mr T, but as the supplier 
of contractual rights obtained under the points-based product agreement. And, in 
relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ds 
role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr T advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr T was always at liberty to choose 
how he wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr T had previously requested those details 
from BPF or D. As I understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to 
suppliers (like D in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that 
basis, Im not persuaded its likely a court would find there existed an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under S140A.
Affordability Checks
Its alleged that D failed to carry out a proper credit assessment and that there were 
resultant breaches of the Finance and Leasing Association (FLA) code of conduct 
(the FLA code) Its important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint 
could be considered under a S140A claim. If the lending were unaffordable, I think 
its possible a court might conclude that gives rise to an unfair relationship. 
BPF have pointed out there was no requirement upon D to undertake a credit 
assessment. As the lender, that was something that BPF were responsible for based 
upon information available to them. The guidance that applied to how BPFs 
assessment should be conducted were included in in the Office of Fair Tradings 
(OFT) guidance for creditors for irresponsible lending issued in March 2010.
BPF havent provided specific evidence or details of the credit assessment they 
completed. And given the passage of time, its possible that information is no longer 
available. If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests 
 and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks 
been completed, they would have revealed that the loan repayments werent 
sustainably affordable for Mr T in order to uphold the estates complaint here. 
However, neither the estate nor the CMC have provided any evidence to support any 
allegation that the loan was unaffordable. And with no information about Mr Ts actual 
position at the time and no evidence or suggestion that he struggled to maintain 
repayments; I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him. 
Furthermore, a statement of Mr Ts loan shows he regularly made repayments over 
and above those required under the agreement. And as a consequence, the loan 
was repaid more than six years before the end of the originally agreed term. 
A failure to comply with the OFTs guidance doesnt necessarily lead to the debtor-
creditor relationship being unfair. There would need to be a resultant loss as a 
consequence. Given the loan has now been fully repaid and there doesnt appear to 
be any evidence that Mr T suffered any loss either, I think it unlikely a court would 
determine unfairness here.
Maintenance fees                                                                                                                                                                                    
The CMC suggest that terms within the contract which allow membership to be 
forfeited due to the non-payment of maintenance charges had previously been found 
to be unfair by a court.Unfortunately, I havent been provided with the full documentation that applied in Mr 
Ts case. However, I have previously seen similar contracts relating to the points-
based product sold by D here. So, Ive thought about how those annual management 
charges were composed and fixed, whether they were clearly explained at the time of 
sale and whether, in light of the long-term nature of the scheme, the terms governing 
those charges were unfair. 
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they 
were put in a position to make an informed decision. If Ds disclosure and/or the 
terms of the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr T ultimately lost 
out or almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract whose 
financial implications he didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may 
amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin2 makes clear, it doesnt 
automatically follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purpose of 
S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at 
in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical way. S140A (2) says that courts 
shall have a regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to 
the creditor and matters relating to the debtor). So, its wide enough to include Mr 
Ts ongoing exposure to unfairness in the future under the terms in question and how 
D have enforced any terms that are or might be unfair.
Here, its possible D didnt give Mr T sufficient information, in good time, on the 
various charges he couldve been subject to in order to satisfy their regulatory 
responsibility under Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations. But even if that was 
the case, it appears Mr T was an existing customer of D at the time the product 
points were purchased. So, I think his experience as an existing member is likely to 
have given him a reasonable amount of insight into what the ongoing costs were 
likely to be going forward. I also believe any decision to purchase the additional 
points was made with the benefit of that experience. So, in the absence of a credible 
explanation as to why, at the time of the sale, Ds cost disclosure (or lack of) could be 
said to have played a significant part in that decision, Im not persuaded it did.
I also think its important to acknowledge that at the time of the Mr Ts claim, it 
appears he no longer owned the points-based membership. Taking all of this into 
account, it seems unlikely to me that a court might decide that the disclosure (or lack 
of) led to any unfairness in the relationship between Mr T and BPF for the purposes 
of S140A.
Other considerations
Following our investigators view, the CMC asked that I consider the contents of two 
documents they subsequently submitted in support of the estates complaint. 
The first of these was a 51-page document prepared by Counsel headed Generic 
submissions on behalf of complainants. However, given the generic nature of its 
contents, I dont think its helpful in establishing the facts of what happened in Mr Ts 
specific case. 
The second is a six-page document prepared by the CMC which provides their 
overview and observations of the points-based product sold by D together with 
supporting documentation. However, having considered all the circumstances, I also 
dont think this helps in establishing the specific facts relating to the estates claim. 
Particularly as some of the comments within it relate to aspects that werent raised as 
part of the original claim or complaint.
2 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)Summary
Based upon my findings above, I havent found anything that persuades me that D 
misrepresented the product purchased, breached any of the terms of the associated 
agreement or did anything that is likely to lead a court to find the relationship unfair. 
And because of that, I cant currently say that BPFs response to the claim was unfair 
or unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they didnt wish to submit further 
information. Despite follow up attempts by this service, neither the CMC nor the estate have 
responded to my provisional decision.
In the absence of any new information or evidence, Ive no reason to vary from my 
provisional findings. For that reason, I wont be asking BPF to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint of the estate of Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman