DRN-4229897
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined her claim.
Mrs N is represented by her son but for ease, all references to Mrs N include any 
submissions made on her behalf by her son.
What happened
Mrs N has a travel insurance policy through her packaged bank account. 
She went abroad on holiday and unfortunately was involved in a car accident. She attended 
hospital for medical treatment and contacted UKI to make a claim for medical assistance. 
UKI told Mrs N the claim couldnt be covered because she was over 70 and hadnt 
purchased an age extension which was required.
Mrs N complained and unhappy with UKIs response, referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think UKI had done anything wrong as it 
had correctly applied the policy terms and conditions. In addition, it had offered to pay 
transport costs from the first hospital to the second, outside the policy terms.
Mrs N disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
She hoped UKI would offer to pay medical expenses as the transport costs were 
minimal 
Her costs are in the thousands 
She thinks there is a mis-sale as the bank didnt tell her an age extension was 
needed when she opened the account
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms under important information say:
Your policy will only operatewhile you are aged under 70 years, unless you have 
bought an age extension
Changes to your insurance or to upgrade your cover
You must tell us immediately after booking your trip if any of the following extra cover 
is required (an additional premium may apply)
Age extension: if any insured person is aged 70 years or older All upgrades 
must be bought before you depart on a trip.
The Insurance Product Information Document also explains that cover is only available for 
anyone aged 70 or older if an age extension upgrade is purchased.
Mrs Ns son purchased an age extension after the trip had started and after her accident. But 
the age extension should have been bought before Mrs N departed on her trip for her to be 
covered. I dont think it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim as a result. It did however offer 
to pay some transport costs and has confirmed this offer is still open. Mrs N should contact 
UKI if she would like to accept the offer.
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ns accident and injuries. But I cant fairly ask UKI to accept the 
claim. 
Mrs N is also unhappy about the sale of the packaged bank account but that doesnt form 
part of this complaint and decision. A separate complaint will need to be made about the 
bank. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman