DRN-4173764
The complaint
Mr B complains Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow.co.uk (Novaloans) provided him with 
a loan which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B was advanced one loan of £250 on 2 December 2021 and he was due to make four 
monthly repayments of £98.04. Mr B has had some problems repaying the loan and 
Novaloans says the account was passed to a third-party collection agency in March 2022. 
Based on the latest statement of account provided by Novaloans it does seem Mr B is 
currently making payments of around £20 per month.  
Novaloans considered the complaint, and it didnt uphold it because it says it had carried out 
a proportionate check which showed the loan to be affordable. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it because proportionate 
checks had been carried out. 
 
Mr B didnt agree saying that he has seen a different approach when it comes to other 
complaints he has had. Mr B said at the very least the default should be removed. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Novaloans checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Bs complaint because there was only one loan and I agree. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Novaloans asked Mr B for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,300 per month from his full-time employment. As this was the first loan, 
I think it is reasonable for Novaloans to have relied on what he had declared.   
Mr B also declared monthly outgoings of £1,098 broken down across a number of different 
categories for example mortgage / rent, loans, credit cards, food and utilities. For a first loan 
it was entirely reasonable and proportionate for Novaloans to have relied on the information 
it received. This left Mr B with sufficient disposable income to afford the repayment of 
£98.04. So, I am satisfied the loan looked affordable.  
In addition, before the loan was approved, Novaloans says it also carried out a credit search 
and a summary of the results Novaloans received was provided in the final response letter 
which Mr B has seen. It knew that Mr B wasnt insolvent and didnt have any active or 
satisfised County Court Judgements. It also knew that in the previous 12 months Mr B hadnt 
defaulted on or had any accounts enter delinquency. 
Novaloans was told Mr B had 10 active accounts with a total debt balance of £3,315  which 
in my view, given Mr Bs declared income isnt high enough to have warranted further 
checks. 
Finally, it knew that Mr B had one active payday loan and apart from that one, he hadnt 
taken any others within the last six months. The total outstanding for that loan was £438. 
Now its possible all of that was due to be paid in one lump sum or the total amount due 
couldve been split across more than one instalment. But however, that loan was due to be 
repaid, Mr B had, based on what he told Novaloans, sufficient disposable income to cover 
the loan repayment.  
The final response letter also seems to suggest that Novaloans used open banking to 
confirm Mr Bs income and expenditure.  And having considered the notes made by the 
Novaloans agent, Ive not seen enough to suggest that there was other information it needed 
to consider which suggested either the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr B, 
Overall, there was also nothing in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Novaloans 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr B 
had provided. So, it wouldve been disproportionate for Novaloans to have asked for them at 
the time. For a first loan, where the monthly repayments were modest, I think it was entirely 
proportionate for Novaloans to have relied on the information Mr B gave it about his income 
and expenditure which showed the loan to be affordable. Which also means I dont think that 
Novaloans needed to do any further check such as requesting copies of Mr Bs bank 
statements. That wouldve been in my view entirely disproportionate.  
Given this I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about Novaloans decision to advance the loan.  
Default 
In Mr Bs complaint form he said that hed not had any communication from Novaloans about 
the default. 
Further enquires were made with Novaloans about this issue after the case was passed to 
me. Novaloans said this point, i.e. the lack of communication wasnt part of Mr Bs original 
complaint. As such, it is entitled to have an opportunity to investigate and address Mr Bs 
concerns around the default. It has told us that as of 14 September 2023 it had arranged for 
a new complaint about the default to be set up and investigated. 
As such it isnt appropriate to consider or investigate what happened with the default notice 
until either Novaloans issues a new final response letter or more than eight weeks has 
passed since the complaint was logged. So, I will say no more about the default. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman