DRN-3223635
The complaint
Mrs L complained about the settlement value and delays with her claim under her home 
insurance policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI).  
What happened
Mrs L initially claimed against her policy following an escape of water incident at her home in 
2008.  Mrs L had a long-standing claim with UKI which she said she finally accepted a 
payment [for] in December 2019. She says she was offered around £2,500 in 2008 for the 
claim and accepted around £10,000 in 2019.
Mrs L raised complaints related to her claim in 2013 and 2016, in which UKI provided final 
responses.
In Mrs Ls most recent complaint, she said her claim shouldve been settled in 2008. As she 
only received her settlement in 2019, she thinks her settlement has reduced in real value 
terms. She also says the delays and her interventions has led to a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience for her and her family through consequential loss and the 
immeasurable, emotional and mental anguish.
UKI said I can see there has been a lot of back and forth throughout your claim that was 
originally made back in 2008. While I cant say the Claims Department delayed the claim for 
the last 11 years, it is clear they could have been more pro-active and come to a decision 
sooner once we received your new quotes for the outstanding works required. There was a 
period of time they didnt get back to you and I agree that a home visit 11 years after the 
initial visit isnt going to provide us with any new information. Im pleased to see our
Claims Department have now agreed to pay you for the outstanding building work to be 
done. In view of the above, the additional distress and worry this has caused and the 
likelihood this work now wont be completed before Christmas, Id like to offer you £150 as 
compensation to say sorry.
When our investigator reviewed the complaint, he decided not to uphold it. He said under the 
rules our service is bound by, he couldnt consider issues related to the complaints raised in 
2013 and 2016. He said the complaints werent escalated to our service within the required 
time limits. So, in his decision, he only considered events after 2016. As part of these 
events, he said there was a delay of about one month between Mrs L providing estimates / 
quotes and the settlement of the claim being made. He also thought that it was pointless in 
UKI sending out someone to assess the damage 11 years after the incident. He thought UKI 
had compensated Mrs L fairly for this inconvenience by offering her £150. However, I issued 
a jurisdiction decision on 4 November 2021, setting out why I will be considering this 
complaint for the whole period of the claim. I will now consider the merits of this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 22 November 2021. I said:
As this claim has taken 11 years before both parties settled on a claim value, there has 
been a lot of communication between them which has meant my review has needed to 
consider a lot of evidence. I want to assure you I have reviewed all the information held by 
our service, including written letters and the records kept by the parties. However, to make 
my decision easier to follow, I have only focused on the specific points that I think are key 
and relevant to my decision.
I have been reviewing what UKI said in its reasoning when it disagreed with Mrs Ls 
complaint. UKI said The customer submitted an estimate for the building works at £1,950 in 
2010. As you can see from the claim notes the claim has been settled numerous times and 
we tried to contact the customer to discuss the claim each time payment was issued. When 
the customer contacted us in 2019 she advised the cost of the works were now in excess of 
£6,000 so a site visit was arranged to review the damage and conclude the claim. 
Mrs L said, the complaint isnt about them not settling I have achieved thatthe settlement 
implies that should have happened initially and therefore had [it] acted fairly, there would 
have been none of the impact caused directly by the insurance company actions. Mrs L 
wants UKI to retract its statement you did not make us aware of any problems with our 
settlement until many years later.
I have considered the timeline of events, which I have summarised and grouped for 
simplicity:
Dec 08 - UKI issued cheque for £2,519 for contents (never cashed)
Feb 10  UKI receive letter from Mrs L with a quote from a contractor for £1,950
2013  various communications, including UKI issuing cheque for contents again 
(never cashed), Mrs L sending letters to understand what part of the settlement the 
cheque related to; Mrs L still claiming for other items
2016  various communications around settlement, UKI accepting it had missed 
some items off contents and issued a cheque for £250 as compensation; cheque 
issued again for contents £2,519 (never cashed)
2017  records of UKI calling Mrs L with no response
2018  Mrs L complained and added further items to her claim which she said UKI 
had missed; records of UKI calling Mrs L and sending letter with no response; further 
dialogue over specific items; UKI said it would settle £1,950 buildings; cheque for 
contents, buildings and compensation re-issued (not cashed)
2019  cheques not cashed. Further communications. Confirmation that Mrs L didnt 
accept buildings settlement. Further quotes shared and assessed, buildings finally 
settled for £6,958
The claim has taken 11 years to reach an acceptable settlement, which is clearly too long. I 
have looked at what I think the cause of these delays were. UKIs notes from 2019 show 
[Mrs L] did not want to cash the cheques as it looked as if she was accepting the offer on 
the claim when in fact the costs of the building repairs had not been agreed. Policyholder 
advised that [one of the claims handlers] was dealing with this last year and as the 
policyholder did not accept the offer made for the buildings work of £1,950 that is why she 
has provided the estimate for the outstanding work. I think with the history of the claim, UKI 
shouldve known Mrs L wasnt happy with how the claim was progressing. This was why Mrs 
L hadnt cashed the cheques and had sent letters asking for details of how UKI had 
calculated the settlement. This was confirmed in its notes in 2019. UKI finally settled the 
buildings aspect of the claim for £6,958 (the settlement offer was originally £1,950), which 
Mrs L said shows that UKI didnt assess the claim properly from the outset. I think her 
perspective is fair. If UKI had properly assessed the damage at the outset, setting out the 
scope of the works, the claim wouldve been dealt with much more smoothly and promptly. I 
dont think it has followed a reasonable process in assessing the damage and validating the claim, which has caused unfair delay in the eventual settlement of the claim.
The final settlement was paid for contents of £2,595 in 2019, but the claim was made in 
2008. The delay in Mrs L cashing the cheque was in order that she wasnt unduly penalised 
when it came to the settlement of the buildings part of her claim. She felt that was her only 
leverage. As I think this delay was caused by UKI, I intend that UKI pay 8% simple interest 
on £2,595 for the 11 years between 2008 and 2019 (i.e. £2,283.60), this is so Mrs L isnt 
penalised, so the value of the claim isnt diminished in real terms.
In respect to the buildings claim specifically which was finally settled for £6,958 and the 
carpet claim that was settled for £579. I have looked at the claim history for these items. I 
can see that the settlement values were based on quotes provided by Mrs L in 2019 and 
2018 respectively. As these are recent quotes relative to when the settlement was paid in 
2019, I dont intend to add interest to these amounts as the settlements appear robust in real 
value terms. 
I said I dont think UKI has followed an effective claims process and this has resulted in 
delays to this claim. Mrs L has explained what the impact of these delays on her has been. 
She said, 
I accepted value for my contents in 2019 at 2009 value (loss to me of replacing without 
insurance cover or not replacing and doing without and only replacing now - clearly 2009 
value would not cover now). 
We live in a 3-bedroom house and have lost the use of over 1/3 of our bedroom space as 
this is the second largest bedroom. We have higher than average heating bills as we have 
hole in a ceiling into the loft. We have higher than average heating bills as we have no 
insulation as the whole of the loft insulation had to be disposed of.
We have had to live without the storage we had in our loft space - invaluable factoring in the 
loss of a bedroom. Therefore, decisions had to be made to dispose of memorability and my 
children's childhood momentous as we simply could not store them.
It was my son's room that was damaged he had to move into his sisters' room and as we 
had no idea it would be protracted this long as a teenager grew up in a bedroom decorated 
for his younger sister.
My son's room housed the fitted wardrobes for him and his sister so in effect we went down 
to wardrobe space for three rooms into one. My daughter lost her personal space as she had 
to move into my bedroom. I lost my personal space as above.
Latterly as the wardrobes have been removed the [partition] wall between the bedrooms has 
been discovered to be mouldy and will have to be removed, as a result of damp from the 
leak not having been dealt with appropriately. Clearly a health hazard for us to have lived 
with.
The above is a flavour of the tangible impact on my children (2) and my life. The intangible is 
unquantifiable, from my physical time in trying to manage the situation, to my stress and 
mental space taken up to the impact on my Children growing up - friendship
groups, sleep over etc.
I am persuaded that the impact on Mrs L and her family wouldve been significant and 
continued over a long period of time. However, when I consider the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused her, I do need to be mindful that Mrs L has herself also 
contributed to the delays by not responding to some of UKIs requests in a timely manner. This has made it more difficult for UKI to conclude the claim. That been said, as Mrs Ls 
insurer, it was UKIs responsibility to manage the claim effectively and to settle any claim in 
line with its terms and conditions. As Mrs L has set out, I think UKI let down Mrs L with the 
claims process and I think there has been plenty of warning signals that Mrs L needed help 
with her claim. Having considered the impact of the delays (and Mrs Ls own contribution to 
these), I intend to offer an award of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs L has 
suffered from these delays. I am persuaded there has been serious disruption to daily life 
over a sustained period.
Finally, Mrs L said her energy bills were higher during the period that she was waiting for her 
claim to be settled. She said there was a hole in her ceiling and no loft insulation which led to 
higher bills. Mrs L wants UKI to compensate her for the higher costs during this period. 
Unfortunately, Im unable to consider this point based on what I have seen. I dont think Mrs 
L made this claim to UKI and supported it with the evidence of historic bills that she has 
since provided to our service. I think UKI need to be first given the opportunity to consider 
this claim. I dont think it would be fair for me to decide on this point until UKI has had this 
opportunity. So, unless Mrs L demonstrates she did share this information with UKI, I dont 
intend to consider this point in my decision. However, I would expect UKI to consider any 
evidence that Mrs L provides in the future in respect to her energy bills if it wasnt included 
as part of her final settlement.
In summary, I uphold this claim, I think UKI shouldve done a better job at scoping out the 
work required at the start of the claim, so a settlement couldve been reached sooner. My 
intended awards are in addition to the compensation UKI already offered Mrs L. So, if the 
two payments of compensation UKI offered (£250 from 2016 and £150 from 2019) havent 
been made, UKI should also pay these plus 8% simple interest from the date it offered the 
compensation to the date its actually paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI disagreed with my provisional decision. UKI said it issued a cheque several times to 
settle the contents part of the claim, so doesnt think its fair I have awarded 8% simple 
interest on the settlement value as Mrs L had chosen not to cash the cheques herself. 
UKI doesnt agree with £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience as it thinks Mrs 
L caused the delay in the settlement by not getting the work carried out in a timely manner. 
UKI said there is no evidence that the original scope was wrong for the buildings settlement 
and said the costs wouldve risen over the 11 years and the damage wouldve got worse as 
it hadnt been repaired earlier. UKI said it tried to contact the customer several times but 
hadnt received a response. 
Finally, UKI said as a company we are unable to keep records more than six years, so this 
has prejudiced us being able to defend this case by revisiting the whole claims journey as 
we no longer have the original quote received from the customer but this is documented in 
the claim notes provided.
Mrs L didnt specifically say whether she agreed or disagreed with my decision. Although, 
she did say she was grateful for the work that had been carried out on the decision. Mrs L 
said she raised the energy costs with UKI but said her claim was dismissed. Mrs L also 
made similar points that she has made before, so I wont repeat these. I would say, however, 
from the quantity of points she has made it shows the strength of feeling in what she has 
said throughout this complaint and she feels strongly she has been poorly treated by UKI.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I will explain my findings a little further, to re-iterate some points made 
in the provisional decision.
UKI said it has been prejudiced as the case has looked at the full 11 years history of the 
case. I explained in my jurisdiction decision issued on 4 November 2021 why I thought it was 
fair to look at the whole period of the claim. I said: I appreciate not every piece of evidence 
may be available, but I think there is enough information and arguments provided by both 
parties for me to arrive at a fair and reasonable decision.
UKI said theres no evidence the original scope of works is incorrect and thinks the £1,000 
compensation is excessive. I dont agree. I think its likely the claim wouldve been agreed far 
earlier if the initial offer had been fair. The final settlement was much higher than the original 
offer suggesting to me the original offer was not a fair one. The claim has taken 11 years to 
agree. By any standard, this is far too long. I think the claim was handled poorly and led to 
long delays.
UKI didnt agree with 8% simple interest being added to the value of the settlement for the 
contents, as it said it had issued the cheque to Mrs L several times. However, I explained in 
my provisional decision, I was persuaded that Mrs L thought that not cashing her cheques 
provided her leverage to getting her overall claim resolved. There is evidence of Mrs L 
asking for clarification of what part of the settlement the cheques related to and Mrs L still 
claiming for other items. So, I dont think Mrs L felt she was able to cash the cheques or fully 
understood what they were for. So, I think adding interest is fair as I think UKIs handling of 
the claim was the primary cause of the delays. The interest will ensure Mrs L isnt penalised 
for not having the money for the duration of the claim.
Mrs L said she claimed for her higher energy costs. But, as I havent seen evidence that this 
claim was put to UKI formally with supporting information, I wont uphold this part of the 
claim. Mrs L can still make this claim to UKI with her evidence if she feels its justified and 
UKI should be willing to consider it. Mrs L can could still then raise a new complaint if she is 
unhappy with the outcome.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mrs L:
8% simple interest (between 2008 and 2019) on the amount paid in respect to the 
settlement for contents - £2,283.60
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays in settling the claim has 
caused - £1,000.00
Note  any outstanding compensation offered by UKI but not yet paid should be paid 
in full plus 8% simple interest from the date it offered the compensation to the date it 
is actually paid
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Pete AverillOmbudsman