DRN-4019502
Complaint
Miss F has complained that Capital One Bank (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable credit card. Shes said that she multiple defaults and 
missed payments and wasnt in any position to afford any more debt.
Background
Miss F was initially provided with a credit card, which had a credit limit of £200, in                
August 2013. She was then provided with a second credit card, which also had a credit limit 
of £200, in June 2017.
When it investigated Miss Fs complaint, Capital One accepted that it shouldnt have provide 
Miss F with a second credit card in June 2017. And it refunded all the interest, fees and 
charges Miss F paid on this account in the way that we normally would if we were to have 
upheld the complaint. However, Capital One didnt uphold the complaint about the first credit 
card. 
As Capital One had already done what wed ask it to do if we upheld the complaint, we didnt 
look into the complaint about the second credit card. And we solely focused on whether 
Capital One had acted fairly and reasonably when providing the first credit card to Miss F.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and Capital One had told us. And she thought 
that Capital One didnt do anything wrong when providing Miss F with her credit card. So she 
didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. Miss F disagreed, so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Capital One needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Capital One needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss F could afford to repay before providing her with a credit card.
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit card Miss F was provided with had a credit limit of £200. And as a credit card is a 
revolving credit facility, Capital One was required to understand whether Miss F could repay 
around £200 within a reasonable period of time. 
Capital One says that it would have asked Miss F to confirm her income and that it would 
have carried out a credit check. However, given its almost a decade since the credit search 
was carried out it no longer has this information. Nonetheless, it is confident that Miss F was 
able to afford to repay £200 within a reasonable period of time. On the other hand, Miss F 
says that she had multiple defaults and missed payments and wasnt in a position to take on 
any further debt.
Ive carefully thought about what the parties have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
given the length of time it has been since Miss Fs application for her credit card took place, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Capital One no longer has a record of the credit check it 
carried out. So Ive not drawn any adverse inferences from Capital Ones inability to provide 
us with its credit search data. 
Secondly, as this was Miss Fs first credit card with Capital One and it had a very low credit 
limit, I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to have done too much more than ask for a 
declaration of income and carry out a credit check either.
Finally and in any event, having looked at copies of the bank statements Miss F has 
provided, I cant see anything within them which clearly demonstrates that Miss F wasnt in a 
position to make the low monthly repayments required to clear the balance on this credit 
within a reasonable period of time. If anything the information provided shows the opposite is 
the case and she could afford to sustainably repay the credit card.
 
I accept that Miss Fs full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Capital One 
gathered or in the information shes now provided. But bearing in mind what shows in this 
information, I cant reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Capital One 
from providing this credit card to her. 
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Capital One did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss F  having considered the information Miss F has 
provided, I dont think this information would have made a difference given its lack of 
previous history with Miss F. So overall I dont think it was unreasonable for Capital One to 
provide this credit card to Miss F.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman