DRN-3137307
The complaint
Mr R complains Black Horse Limited didnt properly compensate him in relation to problems 
he had with a motorhome supplied under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr R acquired a used motorhome from Black Horse under a hire purchase agreement. He 
had various problems with the motorhome which caused him to complain to Black Horse.
Black Horse agreed that Mr R could return the motorhome and made a series of offers to 
compensate him. Mr R said hed accepted the last offer made, on 15 February 2021, but 
later changed his mind because he didnt think it fairly reflected his loss of earnings or 
revenue, and what hed been through.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and was of the view that because Mr R 
had already accepted an offer from Black Horse, it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to 
reopen the matter. She thought Mr Rs complaint should be dismissed without considering 
the merits.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 4 October 2021. I didnt agree that the 
complaint should be dismissed without considering the merits, but I concluded Black Horse 
had already offered or paid enough compensation to Mr R, considering what had happened. 
I have quoted the part of my provisional decision which deals with the merits of Mr Rs 
complaint below:
I dont think Mr Rs complaint should be dismissed, so Ive considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide, provisionally, whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to conclude it should be upheld. I have focused 
specifically on the reasons Mr R has given for why he is unhappy with Black Horses 
offer, which are related to its failure to compensate him for business losses.
The most recent offer from Black Horse, which Mr R initially accepted, included the 
following:
A £2,500 refund of a deposit paid for the motorhome.
£800 reimbursement for the cost of fuel used to take the vehicle for repairs.
£600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the issues with the 
vehicle and the service received from Black Horse.
£400 compensation for loss of enjoyment of the motorhome caused by the 
issues with it.
A £3,430.74 refund, which represented six months of repayments (out of 15 
paid) on the hire purchase agreement. This was to compensate Mr R for loss of 
use of the motorhome and was calculated by reference to the mileage he had 
covered.
Reimbursement of £3,617.13 for additional costs which included a habitation 
service; alarm system repairs; an LPG system replacement; a spare wheel 
retaining mechanism replacement and costs associated with removal; a 
replacement wheel; a replacement fridge; various other components/works, and 
a train ticket.
Black Horse commented in their letter that they were not responsible for Mr Rs loss 
of earnings, and explained the compensation payments were intended to cover 
the inconvenience and time spent on attempting to rectify the upheld issues 
which may have had an impact on your business.
As mentioned earlier, Mr R has disputed Black Horses position on losses associated 
with his business. On a phone call with our investigator he referred to losing £1,750 a 
week and, based on what else he has told us, I understand him to believe these losses 
were caused by the amount of time he had to spend dealing with the complaint, instead 
of running his company.
In principle, if Mr R could show, with documentary evidence, that Black Horses actions 
had led directly to his business losing money, then this is something I could consider 
subject to him having taken reasonable steps to minimise his losses and him not 
having behaved in a way which increased his losses. It would also be subject to it 
having been foreseeable for Black Horse that the problems with the motorhome, and 
the way it was handling these, would causes losses to Mr Rs business.
The primary difficulty I have with Mr Rs claim in respect of his business losses is that 
there is very little evidence to support it. Given the type and size of claim Mr R is making 
in respect of business losses, Id expect to see some paperwork to back this up. In view 
of the above, I cant see a reason why Black Horse should offer any further 
compensation on this point.
I have reviewed the part of Black Horses offer which Mr R has not disputed and, on the 
face of it, can see no reason why this is not a fair and reasonable offer either. It 
provides a significant amount of compensation to him for both financial and non-
financial losses.
Black Horse didnt provide a substantive response to the provisional decision. Mr R supplied 
further evidence of losses related to his work, and noted that he put a large amount of the 
compensation hed received into his business. He also said Black Horse was aware of what 
he was using the motorhome for because the name of his business and the fact he was a 
director was on the finance proposal for the hire purchase agreement, and his business was 
named on the hire purchase agreement itself.
Finally, Mr R noted that was seeking to claim other costs such as the professional fees of his 
accountant and storage of the items he had been keeping in the motorhome. 
The case has been returned to me to review once more in light of the new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Mr R for supplying additional information about the loss of earnings hes said he 
suffered. Before I analyse these further I first need to address an important question Mr Rs 
submissions present relating to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
consider his complaint. 
This service can only consider complaints about the acts or omissions of a financial business 
in carrying on certain activities. There are a number of different categories of activity, but for 
the purpose of Mr Rs complaint, the relevant category is regulated activities. In other 
words, for this service to be able to consider the merits of Mr Rs complaint, Black Horse 
needs to have been carrying on a regulated activity when it entered into the hire purchase 
agreement with him.
Normally, entering into (and administering) a hire purchase agreement would be a regulated 
activity. But certain types of hire purchase agreement are exempt from regulation, and these 
include hire purchase agreements where the amount of credit provided is more than £25,000 
and the agreement has been entered into solely or predominantly for business purposes. If 
this is the case then the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to consider a 
complaint relating to the agreement or anything financed by it. 
Here Black Horse provided more than £25,000 credit to Mr R, and its clear that the 
motorhome is connected to his livelihood because he says hes lost earnings as a result of it 
being of unsatisfactory quality. But exactly how the motorhome was connected to Mr Rs 
livelihood hadnt been clear to me until I read and digested his recent submissions. 
Mr R has a limited company for which it appears he works as the sole director and 
employee. My understanding from the partial information available is that Mr R takes on 
consulting or contracting jobs either through his limited company or in a personal capacity. 
He intended to use the motorhome as a means of travelling to work on contracts, and a 
place to stay instead of (for example) hotels or other temporary accommodation. Theres 
been no suggestion that this was Mr Rs only intended use for the motorhome and indeed it 
appears he was also intending to use it for holidays.
Turning to the question of whether this means Mr R had entered the hire purchase 
agreement for the motorhome solely or predominantly for business purposes, I think it is 
helpful to consider a comparison. In most cases I have seen where a hire purchase 
agreement has been entered into for business purposes, it has been where the hirer plans to 
use the vehicle for private hire (i.e. a taxi) or to teach others to drive. In such cases the 
vehicle is essential to the mechanism by which the hirer earns their money and is therefore 
clearly acquired for business purposes.
I think Mr Rs scenario is different because the motorhome does not appear to have been a 
means of earning money but instead a means of transport and a way to reduce his living 
costs while working on jobs far from his home. Im mindful that Mr R may also have used the 
motorhome to store equipment or other things necessary for him to work, which begins to tip 
the scales towards the vehicle having been acquired for business purposes. However, I have 
given Mr R the benefit of the doubt on this point. My conclusion is that although there was a 
business purpose behind his entry into the hire purchase agreement for the motorhome and 
it was a significant one, it was not the sole reason nor was it predominant.
This means I conclude the agreement was not an exempt agreement and therefore I can 
consider a complaint about it.
Before I go on, there is another important point I must cover which sets some limits on any 
potential compensation I could order Black Horse to pay in this case. Our rules say that I can 
only compensate a complainant. Mr R is the complainant here because he is the person who signed the hire purchase agreement with Black Horse, not his limited company. This means I 
am unable to make an award for the losses of his limited company.
But its not quite as simple as that. As the director of his company, Mr R is an employee and 
his earnings would have fluctuated with its fortunes. I could make an award, potentially, in 
respect of personal losses suffered by him because he was unable to do his job properly or 
at all due to the motorhome not being of satisfactory quality.
In the final analysis however, this doesnt matter because I dont think Black Horse is liable 
for the losses Mr R has outlined for reasons I referred to in my provisional decision. Ill go on 
to explain further.
The business losses/loss of earnings would not have been reasonably foreseeable for 
Black Horse
Theres a general principle that it isnt fair to hold someone liable for losses caused by their 
acts or omissions, which couldnt have been reasonably foreseen. Losses which would arise 
from an unusual or special set of circumstances which was not in the minds of both parties 
at the time they entered into a contract together are examples of losses which would not be 
considered reasonably foreseeable.
I think Mr Rs intended use of the motorhome was unusual. Motorhomes are typically 
purchased with the intention of using them for holidays, whereas it appears a substantial part 
of Mr Rs reason for acquiring this motorhome was to use it as a base from which to work on 
jobs in the UK which were far from his home.
I dont think Black Horse would have foreseen that the motorhome being defective would 
have caused the losses of earnings which Mr R is looking to claim, or related costs, unless it 
had been specifically been put on notice of his intended use. 
Black Horse wouldnt have understood what Mr R planned to use the motorhome for. Mr R 
has said his business name was on the finance paperwork and Black Horse should have 
known from this. Its correct that the paperwork shows Mr R was a director of his own 
company and the company was named as his employer, but this information was included 
because his employment details were required for the application. It was unconnected to the 
intended use of the vehicle and I dont think Black Horse could have known from this what 
Mr R was planning to use the motorhome for.
Mr R has also mentioned the dealer knew about his intended use. Its not clear if this was 
before or after they made the sale. In any event, it doesnt appear this information was 
passed on to Black Horse at least prior to the sale. 
Looking at the state of knowledge of all parties at the point of entering the agreement, I dont 
think it would have been reasonably foreseeable for Black Horse that the motorhome being 
defective would have caused the loss of earnings that Mr R is claiming. It follows that I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to tell Black Horse to cover those losses or related costs 
he has mentioned in response to my provisional decision, such as the cost of 
accommodation used instead of the motorhome while working on jobs, or charges from his 
accountant.
Some losses could have been avoided
There is another general principle of law, that where a person has suffered a wrong, they are 
expected to mitigate their loss. This means they are expected to take reasonable steps to limit the loss caused by what has gone wrong, and to not act unreasonably in a way which 
increases their loss.
Its clear Mr R has spent a very significant amount of time on pursuing his dispute over the 
motorhome. Hes referred to dozens of emails and a high number of phone calls totalling 
many hours (with Black Horse, this service, and others). He has said that his focus on the 
matter has meant he has, in essence, not been able to work. 
I can certainly appreciate discovering a serious defect with a motorhome and needing to 
take steps to deal with the situation is inconvenient and would require some time and effort 
to sort out. But Im not convinced that dealing with this situation would require so much of a 
persons time that it would prevent them from working. I think it was Mr Rs choice to go to 
the lengths he has to pursue his complaint, but in my opinion this wasnt truly necessary. Its 
unfortunate if this has prevented him from working, but I dont think he has mitigated his loss. 
So even if I had found his losses of earnings to have been reasonably foreseeable then I 
wouldnt order Black Horse to cover these as I think they could have been avoided or at least 
reduced. 
Other losses
Mr R has said that he was keeping a number of items in the motorhome which hes now had 
to put into storage because the motorhome was defective and had to be returned. He says 
hes not yet replaced the motorhome because hes struggled to find a good quality one and 
prices have risen, so he wants to claim for his ongoing storage costs.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order Black Horse to cover these storage costs. 
While it is unfortunate Mr R hasnt yet found a replacement vehicle which fits his criteria, I 
dont think its fair to hold Black Horse responsible for changes in the market which may 
have made it more difficult to obtain a good quality replacement at a price Mr R is willing to 
accept. 
My view on the remainder of the package of compensation offered by Black Horse on 15 
February 2021 remains the same as it was in my provisional decision. I think the amount of 
compensation for financial and non-financial losses is significant and Ive seen no evidence 
to lead me to conclude that it was not a fair offer.
My final decision
I think Black Horses most recent offer in February 2021 which Mr R accepted prior to the 
referral of the complaint to this service, is fair. I therefore do not uphold his complaint. 
I know that my opinion on certain things has differed from Mr Rs and appreciate he will be 
disappointed with my decision, but he does not have to accept it. It is open to him to reject 
the decision and continue pursuing his dispute with Black Horse via other avenues (such as 
the courts) if he wishes to do so. However, my decision brings to an end the involvement of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman