DRN-3880067
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the refusal of his claim under his Commercial Package 
Insurance Policy with provided by Chubb. 
Mr P is represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Mr P throughout. 
What happened 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2022, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
Mr P made a claim under his policy after his business was affected by the Governments 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Chubb refused the claim as it said the reason for the business interruption was the 
Government restrictions and this is not covered under the policy. Chubb said that there was 
a section of the policy which covers closure of the business premises as a result of a 
notifiable disease or discovery of an organism at the premises but this would only apply if the 
organism is found at the business premises, and not existence of an organism generally; 
and that the restrictions on the premise were imposed in response to that case. Chubb says 
the loss Mr P suffered would have happened regardless of any discovery of Covid-19 on his 
premises. 
In addition, Chubb says that the policy definition of Notifiable Disease excludes Severe 
Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and/or Atypical Pneumonia or any mutant variation 
thereof which Chubb says would include Covid-19. 
Chubb says that Covid-19 is a new disease, and the virus which causes the disease, 
SARSCoV-2, is not believed to be a mutation of SARS-CoV (the virus which causes SARS). 
However, the policy exclusion is drafted so that it will apply more generally to diseases which 
are clinically similar to SARS and which cause atypical pneumonia. Chubb says the scientific 
evidence indicates that Covid-19 will fall within this description and therefore does not fall 
within the policy definition of a Notifiable Disease. 
Chubb also stated that Mr Ps claim was not impacted by the Supreme Courts judgment in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case.
Mr P is very unhappy with this. Mr P has made a number of other arguments in support of 
his claim. I have considered them all but have summarised his main points below:
 The policy only requires there to be a likelihood of a notifiable disease at the 
   premises to trigger cover, rather than discovery of the disease at the premises. 
 All other clauses in this section of cover specify where the insured peril should be  
   either at or within 250 yards of the premises. So Chubb could have easily specified 
   where the organism was to be found but didnt and the absence of any location   
   being given doesnt mean it should be assumed it means at the premises. 
 But in any case, three employees had Covid-19 at the premises and one was told 
   to isolate between 21 and 27 March 2020. 
 Chubb says these cases would not have caused the Government restrictions but 
   the Supreme Court said that all cases of Covid-19 were equal causes of the  
   imposition of national measures. Even though the Supreme Court was asked to 
   consider policy clauses involving a radius around the premises, the principle would 
   be the same for a policy that requires any incident to be at the premises. 
 Covid-19 is neither SARS nor atypical pneumonia and Chubb cannot   
   retrospectively insert words into the exclusion that are simply not there. 
 If Chubb had wanted to exclude diseases that had similar symptoms to SARS and 
   atypical pneumonia then it could easily have done so. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
agreed that the policy would cover closure due to Covid-19 only if there had been a case at 
the business premises and she did not think this had been established. 
Chubb doesnt accept the Investigators assessment either. It says the Investigator did not 
fully understand the notifiable disease definition and the term atypical pneumonia as she 
said Covid-19 was a different disease from atypical pneumonia. Chubb says atypical 
pneumonia is not a disease in itself but a description of clinical symptoms and it doesnt 
consider that the definition excludes all diseases which cause atypical pneumonia. Instead, 
this description of clinical symptoms is used to define the category of illnesses which are 
excluded from the definition, including SARS. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr P. However, I do not consider that the policy provides cover for his claim. I will 
explain why. 
Policy terms 
Both parties agree that the relevant part of Mr Ps policy provides cover as follows: 
Where shown in the Schedule as operative, cover under Section 2 is extended as 
shown below. 
Restrictions on the use of premises 
the intervention of a public body authorised to restrict or deny access to the 
described premises arising from  
1. a) notifiable disease attributable to food or drink supplied from the described 
premises; or 
b) the discovery of an organism likely to cause notifiable disease at the described 
premises. 
The policy defines notifiable disease as follows:Notifiable disease means illness sustained by any person resulting from food or 
drink poisoning or any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which the competent local authority has stipulated must be notified to them, but 
excluding: 
1. Avian Influenza and/or Influenza A (H5N1) or any- mutant variation thereof; 
2. Swine Influenza and/or Influenza A (HiNi) or any- mutant variation thereof; or 
3. Severe Acute Respiratory- Syndrome (SARS) and/or Atypical Pneumonia or any 
mutant variation thereof. 
Mr P has provided evidence of people who he says had Covid-19 and were at the insured 
premises before the Government decision to impose national restrictions. I do not however, 
consider I need to make a finding on whether there was a discovery of Covid-19 at the 
premises because I think the policy excludes Covid-19 under the above section. I will explain 
why below. 
Interpretation of Insurance 
The approach to contractual interpretation is set out in the Supreme Courts judgment in 
response to the FCA Business Interruption Test Case. Paragraph 47 of that judgement says 
an insurance policy, like any other contract, must be interpreted objectively by asking what 
a reasonable person, with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties when they entered into the contract, would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. Evidence about what the parties subjectively intended or 
understood the contract to mean is not relevant to the courts task. 
At paragraph 77 The Supreme Court also commented that the overriding question is how 
the words of the contract would be understood by a reasonable person. In the case of an 
insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally to SMEs, the person to whom the 
document should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who will subject the 
entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis (cf Jumbo King Ltd v Faithful Properties Ltd 
(1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an ordinary policyholder who, on entering into the 
contract, is taken to have read through the policy conscientiously in order to understand 
what cover they were getting. 
It was noted in Corbin & King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK PLC [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) 
(quoting from an arbitration award issued by Lord Mance in The Policyholders Specified in 
Schedule 1 to the Arbitration Agreement v China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd) that this 
does not mention the insurer or any broker. Cockerill J therefore said that  on this basis, 
we approach the Policy on its words, as if we are a small businessman, albeit with a broker 
to assist us. (paragraph 180).
There has been considerable discussion around the interpretation of the contract between 
the parties on whether the reference to SARS and/or atypical pneumonia can be 
interpreted to include Covid-19. 
It seems to me that the contract should not be interpreted with hindsight. Rather the question 
is how the words would have been understood by the reasonable small business owner, 
perhaps assisted by a broker, with all the background knowledge which would have been 
reasonably available at the time the parties entered into the contract. The insurance was 
entered into before Covid-19 had been identified. So the question for me is what a 
reasonable person would have understood SARS and atypical pneumonia to mean at that 
point. Ive considered what this approach, in my view, means for both SARS and atypical 
pneumonia below. 
SARS 
SARS is a viral respiratory illness caused by the SARS-associated coronavirus, SARSCoV. 
Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses. I think the reference to SARS in the 
policy is likely to be interpreted as referring to the SARS disease which broke out in China 
and Hong Kong (and other locations) in 2002-2003. This is consistent with general 
knowledge of SARS and the UKs notifiable diseases list, which lists SARS separately from 
Covid-19. It is a specific disease and I do not consider it would be interpreted as including 
Covid-19. 
Atypical pneumonia 
Chubb says the term atypical pneumonia was widely used including by the World Health 
Organisation to describe both SARS and COVID-19 during their early stages. Once the 
pathogen causing the illness was identified, the diseases began to be called by their new 
name (i.e. Covid-19) rather than being referred to as an outbreak of atypical pneumonia. The 
definition wording above therefore includes a term which is sufficiently broad to encompass 
both SARS and any subsequent similar pneumonic diseases which might arise in future. 
Mr P says if the business wanted to include all clinically similar diseases, it would have been 
easy to make that clear but the definition as written doesnt state that. In my opinion, the 
exclusion clearly intended to include more than SARS and mutations of SARS, as otherwise 
the inclusion of the words atypical pneumonia wouldnt have been necessary. 
Based on the NHS website, pneumonia is inflammation of the lungs and can be caused by 
either a virus or bacteria. The reference to atypical pneumonia in the policy is not defined. I 
think the natural meaning of atypical pneumonia would reasonably be an unusual form of 
pneumonia. 
In line with paragraph 56 of the judgement in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance 
Company Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), my view is that what is meant here is that the 
disease or condition of atypical pneumonia is a thing with which an individual might be 
diagnosed. 
Therefore, I think the key here is whether a reasonable person at the time this policy was 
taken out would have thought that atypical pneumonia would include a new infectious 
disease which causes pneumonia. I think the answer would, on balance, be yes. This is 
consistent with Rockliffe Hall because it is still treating pneumonia as a condition, rather than 
a general description. 
Overall, I consider that a reasonable interpretation of atypical pneumonia would include 
Covid-19 and I therefore consider that Chubb was entitled to refuse Mr Ps claim. 
My provisional decision 
I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. Chubb has not responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr P has responded and does not accept my provisional decision. He has made a number of 
further points. I have considered everything he has said and have summarised the main 
points below: 
Most people have no idea what atypical pneumonia is.
Most people that were infected with Covid-19 did not have pneumonia. 
In any case, pneumonia in the course of Covid-19 is not atypical pneumonia.
This is supported by a research article published on an online medical journal in the 
USA, in May 2021: Differences among COVID-19, Bronchopneumonia and Atypical 
Pneumonia in Chest High Resolution Computed Tomography Assessed by Artificial 
Intelligence Technology, which shows the differences between Covid-19 related 
pneumonia and atypical pneumonia. 
A reasonable person would never read the exclusion in the policy as meaning that a 
new infectious disease, that caused pneumonia in only a minority of cases, would 
automatically be excluded from cover. 
Chubbs response to the Investigators assessment, as set out in the What 
happened section of my provisional decision, shows that the Investigator didnt 
understand the exclusion, and is an incorrect usage of the term atypical pneumonia.
Chubbs statement that the WHO referred to Covid-19 as atypical pneumonia before 
the pathogen was identified is misleading at best. Mr P has referred to an number of 
statements from WHO that do not mention atypical pneumonia and that the WHO  
referred to it as Covid-19 and pneumonia of unknown cause. 
The exclusion does not state that any subsequent similar pneumonic disease to 
SARS that might arise in the future will not be covered and as it is written, no  
reasonable person would interpret it in this way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has said Covid-19 doesnt always cause pneumonia and in any event, when it does it is 
different from atypical pneumonia. 
The study Mr P referred to was to evaluate the use of technology in diagnosing causes of 
pneumonia and studied what it described as three subgroups of pneumonia: typical 
bronchopneumonia, atypical pneumonia and Covid-19 related pneumonia, in 150 people. 
The article says that atypical pneumonia is not caused by one of the pathogens most 
commonly associated with the disease and with clinical presentation different from typical 
pneumonia.
I think this is in line with my comments in my provisional decision but it also explains that the 
pathogen causing the pneumonia would not be one that would normally cause pneumonia.  
The article also says: The most common microorganisms that cause atypical pneumonia 
[include] severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East respiratory syndrome 
(MERS).The article concludes that the partial overlap found [of symptoms] particularly between the 
Covid-19 pneumonia and the atypical pneumonia subgroup, may limit the usefulness of 
automatic analysis in differentiating the etiology. 
It seems the results of this study showed more similarities between the presentation of 
Covid-19 related pneumonia and atypical pneumonia caused by other pathogens, than 
between Covid-19 related pneumonia and typical bronchopneumonia. 
I dont think this would qualify as information reasonably available to the policyholder or 
broker for the purposes of contractual interpretation. But in any case, while atypical 
pneumonia and Covid-19 related pneumonia were looked at separately for the purposes of 
this study, I am not persuaded that this in itself means that Covid-19 related pneumonia 
would not be considered atypical pneumonia. 
It is correct that not everyone infected with Covid-19 went on to develop pneumonia and 
Covid-19 is a disease in its own right. However, nothing Mr P has said persuades me that in 
June 2019, when Mr P took out this policy with Chubb, a reasonable person wouldnt have 
thought that atypical pneumonia would include a new infectious disease which could cause 
pneumonia of the sort seen in Covid-19 cases.  
I therefore remain of the opinion that a reasonable interpretation of atypical pneumonia 
would include Covid-19 and I therefore consider that Chubb was entitled to refuse Mr Ps 
claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman