DRN-3569523
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to 
protect her when she was the victim of a scam, and hasnt refunded her.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. The facts are not in dispute. So, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. 
Miss P made payments between October and December 2019 totalling over £5,000 when 
she fell victim to a scam. She received a refund of £342.38 in January 2020, making the total 
amount lost £4,676.53. 
NatWest said it wasnt made aware of an issue with these transactions until June 2021  
outside of the required timeframe for a chargeback. 
Our investigator concluded that the payments made werent particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic. And she didnt think NatWest had missed an opportunity to identify the 
payments were being made in relation to a scam, or made an error in terms of the recovery. 
So, she didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss P disagreed, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Miss P fell victim to a scam. She made payments of over 
£5,000 to two companies which she believed to be linked to a company which Ill call 
Company M and has since lost the money. But, as she authorised the payments, 
the starting position is that Miss P would be liable for them too.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If NatWest failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
In this case, NatWest didnt identify any potential issues with any of the payments. 
Ive thought carefully about this, and whether the payments would have and should 
have appeared significantly unusual or uncharacteristic. All the payments were 
relatively low, with the lowest payment being £252.77 and the highest payment being 
£851.69. I dont consider these payments to be significant enough that they should 
have flagged with NatWests fraud systems, especially given that Miss P had made 
payments of around £1,900 and £537 in the months prior to these transactions. 
While I note that there were four payments of £851.69 on the same day, totalling 
£3,406.76  a more substantial sum  I dont consider this amount to be significant 
enough to have alerted NatWest to an issue.
Ive also considered information available from external organisations that publish 
official warnings about merchants operating in the UK and abroad. There was 
nothing available at the time, or even now, about the two merchants that the 
payments were actually made to. 
But Miss P seemed to believe her payments were going to Company M. While 
theres a warning on the Financial Conduct Authority register about Company M, this 
has only been in place since November 2020  after the payments were made. So 
NatWest couldnt reasonably have known the payments were going to Company M, 
but even if it did, there wouldnt have been an official warning in place at the time. So 
I dont think I can reasonably have expected NatWest to have intervened with these 
payments.
Turning to the attempts to recover the funds, Ive not seen anything to support that 
Miss P told NatWest about an issue with the payments until June 2021  which is 
outside of the chargeback time limits set by the card scheme. So I cant reasonably 
say it should have done anything further to try to recover the money, which was paid 
around 18 months prior. 
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman