DRN-4131928
The complaint
Ms B complains about the handling of her claim for water damage to her property by 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). The claim was dealt with mostly by loss 
adjusters on behalf of LV, though for convenience, unless I say otherwise Ill refer to LV 
throughout.
What happened
In August 2020 Ms Bs property suffered water damage after an overflow from her bath. She 
reported the claim to LV in September 2020. Because of the Covid 19 situation, Ms B didnt 
at that stage want visitors, and it wasnt realised at first how extensive the damage was. 
Ms B agreed that she would get her own quotes, which she supplied to LV in September 
2021. A site visit took place in early September 2021 and it was identified that a full strip out 
was needed, and this was then done in part by contractors appointed by Ms B.  Ms B then 
appointed a loss assessor (K) to act for her.
K advised that the initial strip out had shown that it was likely that asbestos was present in 
the flooring. It was decided that asbestos testing would be needed before any drying out 
could happen. Ms B complained in November 2021 that she hadnt been given alternative 
accommodation (AA) and K also asked for AA to be provided to Ms B. She was initially 
placed, from 22 November, in a hotel, then a suitable let was found for her. She moved 
there, initially for six months in early December 2021.
K supplied a quote for revised repair costs in mid-January 2022. LV decided that a second 
tender was needed. After review LV approved the lowest tender in early March 2022. Drying 
out was completed by early May, and reinstatement was begun in early June. The AA was 
extended and I believe Ms B eventually moved back home in late November 2022.
Ms B made three complaints to LV, which it gave final response letters (FRLs) to on 
29 September 2021 and 29 December 2021, and 28 April 2022.
As I shall explain below, in respect of the first FRL, Ms B didnt pursue a complaint about this 
until after six months. As LV didnt consent to this being considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I wont be considering the issues raised in that letter. I understand that 
this has been explained to Ms B.
Ms B complained of a failure to provide her with AA. In its FRL of December 2021, LV 
recognised that Ms B should have been given AA sooner and gave her £800 compensation.
Ms B subsequently complained of delays by LV, and its failure to communicate and progress 
the claim proactively. LV responded in its FRL of April 2022 taken from the point of the 
December 2021 FRL, that it found no significant avoidable delays or neglect by any party 
involved. It did not award any further compensation.
On review by our Investigator, they found that LV had acted reasonably and provided 
appropriate compensation.
Ms B didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, I cant consider matters dealt with in LVs FRL of 29 September 2021. This is 
because Ms B was out of time for referring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator pointed this out in their view, and I understand that Ms B accepts 
this. I should further point out that I can only consider the complaints about delay, 
communication and claim progress up until the FRL of 22 April 2022. I dont believe Ms B 
has made any complaints about activity after that date, but if she has she should raise these 
directly with LV at first instance.
Turning now to the question of AA. Ms B recontacted LV in late August 2021. LV was aware 
that Ms B would be having the downstairs rooms, including the kitchen, stripped out. K was 
appointed in mid-September 2021 and gave LV all the details. Whilst K didnt draw LVs 
attention to the lack of a kitchen at that stage, Ms B specifically emailed LV to advise that a 
kitchen she had ordered had to be sent back while the issues with the flooring were dealt 
with. 
I note that LV emailed K on 1 October 2021 enquiring as to the position regarding AA and 
didnt receive a response until 1 November. Nevertheless, I think that LV should have, under 
the terms of the policy, offered Ms B AA from the time the kitchen was stripped out. I note 
that it paid her £800 for the inconvenience and distress suffered. I think that was a fair and 
reasonable award in the circumstances. Such an award is appropriate where the impact has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worry, albeit it was resolved.  This is also in line 
with awards we have made in similar cases. Ive noted that LV also paid a food allowance of 
£10 a day which it backdated to 6 September 2021, which again I think was reasonable.
I note that Ms B was dissatisfied with the progress of the matter once LV had agreed to 
accept the claim after September 2021. However I should note that during the period up until 
the end of April 2022 Ms B was represented by K. In that respect I note that after the initial 
strip out, the presence of asbestos was noted and the water saturation was found to be far 
more than anticipated. This meant that a revised scope of works had to be carried out. In 
mid-January 2022, K supplied a revised quote for the repair costs. Because of the amount of 
the quote it was decided that a second tender was necessary. LV was able to accept the 
new tender in early March 2022, and the reinstatement of the property moved to the removal 
of asbestos and drying out, the latter of which was completed by early May.
I knows Ms B believes that it took a long time to get any repairs under way, but I bear in 
mind that Im only considering matters after 29 September 2021.  And taking into account 
the extent of repairs needed, and that Ms B was able to remain in the AA while negotiations 
over the costs proceeded, I havent seen that there were any avoidable delays during this 
period on LVs part. I must also bear in mind that as Ms B was represented by K, the terms 
of that were that communications had to be made through K.
Ive noted that Ms B claims loss of earnings for attending on site meetings and writing emails 
and letters to LV. Unfortunately in this sort of extensive claim, it is inevitable that such 
meetings will have to take place. But that is a part of the claim and isnt something that I 
would expect LV to pay compensation for. Ive taken account of the emails Ms B wrote in 
complaint to LV but wont increase the award any further because of this.
Finally Ive noted Ms Bs concern that she had to live in the property when asbestos had been identified, and is concerned that she will have to undergo further medical tests and that 
it may have affected her health. As I understand it, once the presence of asbestos was 
noted, no action was taken to strip out that part of the property while Ms B was present, and 
it is only once asbestos is disturbed that it becomes a health risk. So whilst I understand 
Ms Bs concerns I dont think her health was put at risk her remaining in the property for a 
while after the asbestos was noted. And I think the award of compensation takes account of 
Ms Bs general health worries about remaining in her home.
So while I understand Ms Bs frustration and the inconvenience she suffered, I think that LV 
acted reasonably to progress the matter to the repairs getting under way. So I wont make 
any further award of compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman