DRN-4256460
The complaint
Mr E complains that he wasnt offered better exchange rates by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
In January 2023, Mr E made transfers from his USD currency account to his GBP Premier 
account with HSBC. The transfers were:
23 January 2023: USD100,000
24 January 2023: USD200,000
24 January 2023: USD300,000
On 2 February 2023, he visited a branch of HSBC in the UK, and saw that HSBC offered a 
Global Money Account (GMA). This is a multi-currency account for sending, spending, or 
exchanging currency. It includes fee-free transfers and (as HSBCs materials say) 
competitive rates of exchange. Mr E made an application for a GMA and HSBC wrote to 
him that day with a welcome pack.
Mr E complained. He said he shouldve been offered a GMA before, or when he made the 
exchanges of currency in January 2023. He said the GMA exchange rates were about 5% 
better than those he got. He calculated the difference to be £30,000. He said to us that if 
hed had the additional money, he couldve purchased a more expensive rental property than 
he did (in June 2023)  which wouldve given him a higher yield than the one he bought.
HSBC said Mr E had made the payments himself and as part of the process, he confirmed 
he accepted the exchange rates. HSBCs rates vary, and while he may have been able to 
find better rates elsewhere in the market, the rates he got were the best HSBC offered at the 
time.
Mr E brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said GMA was launched in October 2022 
and it was advertised on national TV and on HSBCs website. The onus was on Mr E to 
apply for a GMA if he wished. And as Mr E had made the transfers himself, online, he hadnt 
spoken to HSBC about the rates available at the time. Mr E had authorised the transfers and 
the exchange rates. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E didnt accept this and made additional points:
- He said hed spoken to HSBC several times in September 2022 - and HSBC didnt 
mention GMA.
- He registered for digital banking in September 2022  and HSBC didnt mention 
GMA.
- Mr E said he lived overseas and couldnt be expected to see the TV advertising in the 
UK.
Our investigator considered these points but still didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate where Mr E is coming from  he says that he couldve got better rates from 
another bank if hed shopped around, but (reading what hes said)  he expected his bank 
(for which he held a premier account)  shouldve offered him a GMA. And had they done 
so, he wouldve used the GMA to make the transfers at a better rate.
But on the other hand, I did note that:
- Mr E made the currency transfers himself, online - and he accepted and confirmed 
the rates.
- In general terms, I think the onus was on Mr E to have seen the information about 
GMA, and applied for the product.
- Because he made the transfers himself, he didnt call or speak to HSBC  if he had 
done so (and queried the exchange rates)  it may have been that HSBC might have 
offered a GMA at that time. But as that didnt happen, I cant say HSBC were at fault.
- HSBC launched GMA in October 2022: and there was TV advertising and coverage 
on its website. HSBC told us that GMA was only initially marketed in the UK  so I 
accept that Mr E may not have seen the TV advert (he lives abroad) but the website 
was easily accessible from anywhere in the world. So  Mr E couldve seen that 
information.
- The interaction with HSBC regarding his registration for digital banking was in 
September 2022  before GMA was launched. 
- HSBC has made the point to us   GMA exchange rates (and all exchange rates) 
change all the time, and it cant be guaranteed that the GMA exchange rate wouldve 
been better that the rates Mr E actually got.
The crux of Mr Es complaint comes down to whether I can reasonably expect HSBC to have 
proactively offered Mr E a GMA at the time, or before he made the transfers in question. And 
on balance, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont think that its fair to expect HSBC to have 
done so. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman