DRN-2490452
The complaint
Mr A complains that IG Markets Limited shouldnt have let him trade contracts for difference 
as he didnt realise the risks involved and wasnt in a position where he could afford to lose 
money.
What happened
In 2011, Mr A opened a contracts for difference (CFD) account with IG. A third party 
business was set up as Mr As power of attorney. Mr A used this first account for just under a 
year. He then set up a second account in 2012 which was used for six months. He also set 
up a third account later in 2012 and this was active until 2018. The second and third 
accounts do not appear to have involved the third party power of attorney.
 
Mr As representatives complained to IG in May 2020. They said that of the £508,000 Mr A 
invested, hed lost around £275,000. They didnt think Mr A had been warned about the risks 
involved. They also said that he earned around £60,000 a year and didnt have any savings, 
so wasnt in a position to lose money or be able to replace lost money. They cited some of 
the relevant rules and said IG hadnt acted with due care and skill, had no regard to Mr As 
best interests and hadnt treated him fairly. And while they noted Mr A first opened the 
account with help of another company, they said there was no reconsideration of 
appropriateness when Mr A was trading without advice. They asked for IG to return the 
£275,000 with interest, pay £1,000 for the distress and cover their fees. 
IG considered what Mr As representatives had said, but didnt agree theyd done anything 
wrong. They explained that they didnt need to ensure suitability of the trading for Mr A as his 
accounts were execution only  but that theyd assessed his appropriateness for trading and 
given warnings about the risks involved. They explained Mr As losses were in the region of 
£124,000 - £11,000 on the first account, almost £8,000 on the second and just over 
£105,000 on the third  but this wasnt as a result of their advice or wrongdoing.  
Unhappy with this, Mr As representatives asked for our help. The complaint was considered 
by one of our investigators, but he didnt think IG ought to refund any of Mr As losses. He 
said, in summary, that the accounts were execution only so IG didnt need to consider the 
suitability of trading. But IG did need to consider appropriateness  in this case, with each 
account Mr A had indicated that he had the knowledge and experience required. So he didnt 
think IG had done anything wrong. 
The representatives didnt agree  they asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the 
investigators opinion but didnt say why or raise any further arguments.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise this will be very disappointing for Mr A as hes lost a lot of 
money, I agree with what our investigator said for broadly the same reasons. 
As IG are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook  
the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. IG werent required to 
assess the suitability of Mr As upcoming trading given they werent going to be giving him 
any advice  so the representatives inclusion of the suitability assessment within COBS 9 
isnt relevant here. 
However, to trade in derivatives as a retail client COBS 10 required IG to assess Mr As 
appropriateness for doing so. In other words, this required them to gather relevant 
information from Mr A in order to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved. 
When opening the first account, Mr A answered to say that he traded shares and bonds 
frequently, CFDs or spread bets frequently and warrants, futures or options rarely/never. 
So from these answers, Mr As frequent use of CFDs and spread bets suggested did have 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product on 
offer. 
When Mr A opened the second account just under a year later, his answers were the same 
but for trading warrants, futures or options sometimes rather than rarely or never. When he 
opened the third account, his warrants, futures or options answer returned to rarely/never. 
Importantly, his answers to CFDs and spread bets were always frequently. 
In addition to confirming he had experience with a relevant product, on his first and third 
account opening forms Mr A confirmed his annual income was between £25,000 and 
£74,999 and his savings were between £20,000 and £49,999. On his second, his income 
bracket remained the same but his savings were between £5,000 and £19,999. Mr A 
updated his income and savings figures in 2015, 2016 and 2017 too. So not only did Mr A 
confirm he had relevant investment experience, he also had available cash.
 
The answers given passed IGs appropriateness assessment and Mr A was deemed eligible 
to trade. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the account opened in 2011 and both 
accounts opened in 2012 were properly assessed as being appropriate for Mr A. So I dont 
think it was wrong for IG to allow him to trade. 
While Mr A and his representatives now say he didnt understand the risks and had no 
savings, COBS 10.2.4R allowed IG to rely on the information given  unless they were 
aware it was out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. But I see no reason for them to have had 
those doubts or for them to have challenged Mr As answers, especially given the 
consistency of answers, even when trading without third party advice. So I dont have any 
concerns with IGs dependency on Mr As answers either.
Lastly, Mr As representatives have said IG have failed to meet regulatory requirements, 
namely principles two and six. But from everything Ive seen here, I dont agree. They say IG 
didnt comply with principle two, requiring them to conduct business with due skill, care and 
diligence  they say this because no suitability checks were undertaken. But as I said above, 
IG werent giving Mr A advice, so they didnt need to do any suitability assessment under 
COBS 9. 
They also say IG didnt comply with principle six which required them to have regard to 
Mr As interests and treat him fairly  they say this because CFD trading can be high risk so he should have been told to seek investment advice. But Mr A was told about the risks, and 
it was his choice as to whether to seek advice or not. When opening the accounts Mr A 
accepted IGs customer agreement  this governed his relationship with IG and within the 
introduction it also pointed Mr A to some other important documents, one of them being a 
risk disclosure notice. 
IG shared an example of the risk disclosure notice in force at the time Mr A opened his 
accounts. Amongst other things, it said [y]ou should not deal in derivatives unless you 
understand the nature of the contract you are entering into and the extent of your exposure 
to risk. You should also be satisfied that the contract is suitable for you in the light of your 
circumstances and financial position. And [w]hilst derivative instruments can be utilised for 
the management of investment risk, some investments are unsuitable for many investors. 
Awareness was then drawn to a number of terms such as futures, options and CFDs. 
The document explained that [i]nvesting in a contract for differences carries the same risk 
as investing in a future or an option. And regarding futures, it said [t]hey carry a high 
degree of risk. The gearing or leverage often obtainable in futures trading means that a 
small deposit or down payment can lead to large losses as well as gains. It also means that 
a relatively small market movement can lead to a proportionately much larger movement in 
the value of your investment, and this can work against you as well as for you.
So Mr A was told about the risks involved, but decided to go ahead anyway. And while his 
losses were considerable, he had an account for a number of years and for firms like IG this 
wont be uncommon for them to see. Losing money alone wasnt enough for IG to infer that 
Mr As trading had become out of his control, that there were affordability problems or 
vulnerabilities meaning they ought to intervene. So I dont agree IG acted against Mr As 
best interests given the execution only nature of his account. Overall and on balance, I 
consider that Mr A was adequately warned about the risks of trading of this nature. 
So while I appreciate Mr A lost a lot of money, for the reasons Ive explained above it would 
not be fair nor reasonable to ask IG to refund the losses.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman