DRN-3043543
The complaint
Mr C complains through his representative, on behalf of his late fathers estate. Mr C 
complains that Park Hall Financial Services Limited (PHFSL) gave unsuitable advice 
regarding the transfer of his fathers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Personal 
Pension (PP).
What happened
In 1991 PHFSL advised Mr Cs father on transferring his OPS (approximately £20,000) into a 
PP. In August, the transfer was completed. The following year Mr C took his tax-free cash 
from the pension (25%). And in 2007 he purchased an annuity with the residual funds, again 
on the advice of PHFSL. 
Mr C has told us that at the time of the advice (1991):
PHFSL didnt establish his fathers attitude to risk;
PHFSL didnt carry out an appropriate fact find regarding his fathers family needs or 
plans; his personal or financial situation or future needs; 
PHFSL didnt sufficiently inform his father of the PP his OPS was being transferred 
into, or of the associated risks; 
PHFSL didnt explain the associated benefits of the OPS or that these benefits would 
be lost upon transferring out;
PHFSL didnt explain the associated fees and charges regarding the PP or how they 
would affect the returns; and 
PHFSL informed his father that the PP would be certain to provide him with pension 
income, tax free lump sum and capital growth benefits significantly in excess of those 
that the [OPS] would provide.
In March 1996 PHFSL wrote to Mr Cs father. They said that the then investments watchdog, 
the Personal Investment Authority (PIA), were overseeing an industry-wide Pension Review. 
This was to establish whether individuals received appropriate advice to transfer their OPS 
to a PP.
As a result, PHFSL explained they would look into the Pension arrangements of Mr Cs
father, if:
he wasnt satisfied with the advice received; or
he was unsure whether the advice received was correct.
As no response was received, PHFSL sent a further letter to Mr Cs father a month later. 
They didnt receive a response to the chaser letter either. It has since been established that 
PHFSL had sent these letters to an old address, so Mr Cs father had no knowledge of them.
In November 2018, Mr Cs father contacted PHFSL seeking redress for the unsuitable 
advice received in 1991. In their final response PHFSL explained that the complaint was 
time barred. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Cs father brought his complaint to us. Sadly, Mr Cs father passed 
away and Mr C took over as the complainant, on behalf of his late fathers estate. PHFSL 
objected to this as they didnt believe Mr C was an eligible complainant. Both the time bar 
and eligible complainant point have been addressed in a separate jurisdiction decision. I 
agreed with our investigator and decided that this complaint had been brought to us in time 
and that Mr C was an eligible complainant.  
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the case, relying on COBs 19.1.6, as 
published in 2007. This stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Our investigator explained that whilst COBs 19.1.6 was published after the advice was 
given, the same principle applied. Therefore, the starting point for this transfer should have 
been that it wasnt suitable (as it was a defined benefit occupational pension). And as they 
werent able to establish that the transfer was in Mr Cs fathers best interest, a loss 
assessment should be carried out. And any loss identified should be paid to Mr Cs fathers 
estate.
PHFSL havent accepted our investigators view. They maintain they gave suitable advice. 
And they do not agree that the COBs 19.1.6 applied as they werent yet in force at the time.   
Nor do they accept that this complaint isnt time barred. It has asked that in accordance with 
DISP 3.6.4 (set out below), we apply the relevant law. In this case PHFSL believe this is the 
Limitation Act 1980. It also maintains that Mr C is not an eligible complainant.
So, this has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PHFSL have again raised the time bar and eligible complainant points. I reiterate what I said 
in the jurisdiction decision dated 11 December 2020 and my subsequent comments, which 
were sent to them by email on 5 January 2021. 
DISP rule 2.8 contain the rules this Service must apply regarding time limits. DISP rule 
2.8.2(2) states the Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint that is referred to us more than 
six years after the event complained about. Or (if later), more than three years from when 
the complainant became aware or ought reasonably to have become aware, they had cause 
to complain. Consequently, under DISP rule 2.8.2(2)(b) this complaint is not time barred as 
Mr Cs father became aware that he had cause to complain in May 2017. He therefore had 
until May 2020 to raise his complaint with PHFSL. And he did so in 2018, which was in time. 
PHFSL have said DISP 3.6.4 should be applied to the time bar consideration. The whole of 
DISP 3.6 applies to the merits of a case and not the time limits we must apply. In summary, 
DISP rule 3.6.4 states the Ombudsman will take the relevant law, regulations and the like 
into account when considering what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. As DISP rule 3.6.4 states what the Ombudsman must do when considering the case 
(rather than the jurisdiction), this will now apply.With reference to the eligibility of Mr C as a complainant, Mr C is nominated as the executor 
of his fathers estate. He can therefore bring this complaint to us. We have received relevant
copies of both Mr Cs fathers Will and death certificate. As such, I am still satisfied that Mr C 
is an eligible complainant.
Further, PHFSL have said that only Mr Cs mother would have been able to receive any 
death benefits, if she had survived Mr Cs father. But this wasnt the case. The OPS had 
revised their benefits in 1992:
For the first time, a lump sum will be payable to the widow or estate of former members, if 
these members contributed to the Scheme after April 1975. The lump sum, which is payable 
in respect of deaths on or after 1 March 1992, will be in addition to any award of widows 
pension. 
So, the OPS would have, in the event of Mr Cs fathers death, paid out a lump sum to his 
estate. 
I haven't seen anything in PHFSLs emails about these points that changes my mind. So, for 
the reasons I have previously set out, and summarised above, this complaint is not time 
barred and Mr C is an eligible complainant. 
PHFSL attempted to contact Mr Cs father in 1996. However, they wrote to him at an 
address where he no longer resided. PHFSL have asked which rule stated they had a 
requirement to check the address they had on their system was up to date. And I can 
confirm their isnt an explicit rule stating this. However, DISP rule 3.6.1 states that the 
Ombudsman must decide what, in their opinion, is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. It wouldnt be fair to say Mr Cs father missed the opportunity, 
when he didnt receive notification of it. 
That said, it doesnt automatically follow that because the review didnt take place, I will 
direct PHFSL to carry out a review now. It wouldnt be fair for me to assess the suitability of 
the advice Mr Cs father received in 1991, based on the rules that apply now. Todays 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, whilst broadly the same, are not retroactive. And 
consideration must also be given to whether this transfer was suitable given the protected 
benefits of the existing OPS, alongside Mr Cs fathers specific circumstances at the time. 
In 1991, Mr Cs father was 52 years old, married and had no financially dependent children. 
He cared for his wife who was unwell and he was also a self employed Baker. The bakery 
was struggling, and he had no savings or investments. His OPS was his only pension and 
this had been accrued over a 17 year period. Mr Cs father left that role in 1988 and at the 
time of the advice was contemplating early retirement. 
Was this an execution only transaction or was Mr Cs father an insistent client?
PHFSL has told us more than once that Mr Cs father was insistent. Theyve said he 
approached them and he had already chosen the pension provider he wanted to transfer his 
OPS to. But weve not been provided with any evidence to support this claim. According to 
Mr Cs fathers testimony, by way of a written statement, he was approached by PHFSL. I 
appreciate this statement was made almost thirty years after the event, so understandably it 
is less reliable than if the statement had been made at the time. 
With this in mind, the parties have contradictory stances on this point and neither have 
evidence in support of their stance. So I have to consider the likelihood of Mr Cs father 
having approached PHFSL, with the intention of instructing them to carry out his transfer. Mr Cs father didnt have any investments and his OPS was his only pension. His previous 
career didnt warrant financial knowledge (he was a mineworker for 17 years and a baker for 
a very short time). And according to his statement, he wasnt a financial expert (this is 
something he would be likely to recall regardless of the passage of time to have passed). It 
is therefore hard to believe that he would have approached PHFSL in order to arrange a 
transfer. Based on the evidence I have seen, this would have been out of character for him, 
given his investment history prior to this transfer. I am therefore not persuaded that this 
transfer was an execution only transfer. It stands to reason that PHFSL gave Mr Cs father 
advice about the transfer. 
For the same reasons, I do not believe there is sufficient evidence to suggest he was an 
insistent client. PHFSL have said Mr Cs father was aware of the risk but accepted it in order 
to meet his objectives. In order for the insistent client standard to have been met, there 
would need to be evidence that Mr Cs father had sufficient financial understanding with 
reference to the risks associated with transfering out of his OPS. No such evidence has 
been provided. Therefore I do not believe he was an insistent client.      
Suitability of advice
PHFSL objected to our investigator making reference to COBs 19.1.6, as it wasnt yet in 
force. Whilst COBs werent in force at the time, the rules that pre date them, were broadly 
the same. That said, in the spirit of specificity, I will apply the industry standard in place at 
the time of the advice. 
PHFSL were members of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory 
Association (FIMBRA). They were later taken over by the PIA. The industry regulator from 
around 1994.
Under Rule 4.2.1, PHFSL were required to take reasonable steps to obtain Mr Cs fathers 
personal and financial circumstances, in order to then give suitable advice. Under this rule, 
PHFSL didnt have to give any advice to Mr Cs father if he refused to provide the 
information they needed, regarding his personal and financial circumstances.  
The fact find shows, what PHFSL said is Mr Cs fathers hand writing on it. It says:
I do not wish to complete this form. 
Mr Cs father isnt able to confirm he wrote this, but I do believe its more likely than not that 
he did. I dont think reasonable steps were taken by PHFSL in considering the importance of 
this transfer. This was Mr Cs fathers only pension. And one he had accrued over a 17 year 
career. PHFSL should have satisfied themselves as to why he wanted the transfer at least. 
In order to give suitable advice they first needed to understand Mr Cs fathers retirement 
plans and his circumstances at the time. Mr C has said this wasnt done and PHFSL havent 
provided sufficient evidence to show that it was. I therefore cannot conclude that  PHFSL 
had enough information inorder to understand Mr Cs needs. Given theincomplete state of 
the fact find, PHFSL they cant demonstrate that they gave suitable advice. 
PHFSL have said that Mr Cs father approached them and when he did, he already had a 
pension provider in mind regarding his transfer. And the advice they gave, was with 
reference to a better alternative. I have already determined that Mr Cs father is unlikely to 
have approached them in the manner described, given his investment history. But, even if he 
did, PHFSL would still have had to explain the benefits and risks of the transfer. And I cannot 
see that this was done. Further, Mr Cs fathers OPS have said that at the time of the transfer, Mr Cs father would 
have received a pension of around £40 per week with a pension commencement lump sum 
of around £6,000. This was based on the size of his pension pot at the time (approximately 
£20,000). The deferred benefit amount makes it look like a fairly small pension. But this was 
in the 1990s and he was only 52. Apart from accessing part of his tax free cash, Mr Cs 
father didnt take further action regarding his retirement options until 2007.  
With this in mind, his pension would have increased in deferment and would have been 
more significant in 2007 (16 years later). I doubt Mr Cs father would have known this or 
been able to understand this if he did have the documentation. But this is something PHFSL 
should have explained to him and I havent seen anything to suggest they did.   
Under the FIMBRA Rule Amendment No.2 (July 1988), PHFSL should have given 
considered advice, having reviewed and given due weight to all of Mr Cs fathers factors and 
information. The guidance on best advice at the time was that in order to be able to 
demonstrate at a later date that the advice given was sound and suitable, PHFSL would 
need to show an adequate knowledge of Mr Cs father, by maintaining records. Neither the 
fact find, nor the notes taken regarding the meeting in 1991, assist PHFSL in demonstrating 
they had adequate knowledge of Mr Cs father. I therefore do not believe the industry 
standard was met in this regard.
PHFSL has said he was advised as to risk but chose to proceed. But according to Mr Cs 
father, this wasnt the case. And he didnt know his OPS would have been good for him in 
retirement. In his witness statement, he stated:
If someone had explained the benefits of [my OPS], and explained that it would be a good 
thing for me in retirement, I would not have transferred my pension. 
At the time of the advice, Mr Cs fathers bakery was struggling and he was looking after his 
wife who was unwell. The OPS had a number of benefits linked to it. The most significant 
being a guaranteed income for life to Mr Cs father. 
From what I have seen, Mr Cs father wouldnt have been able to access his pension before 
62 (based on the OPS rules in place at the time of the advice). And PHFSL have said he 
wanted to access his tax-free cash sooner. I do think it is possible that Mr Cs father wanted 
or needed some money at the time, as his business was struggling. This however, cannot be 
considered in isolation. And his needs beyond the immediate future (at the time) should have 
been considered also. 
He had no other pension and no savings. His OPS was therefore his main retirement nest 
egg. The financial risk (that is, not receiving a guaranteed payment) and financial burden in 
transferring this into a PP (with reference to the PP fees), outweighed the benefits of getting 
the tax-free cash. And without a satisfactory record of Mr Cs fathers needs at the time (that 
is, a comprehensively completed fact find), I am not persuaded otherwise. 
Under Rule 4.3.1 PHFSL had a duty to take reasonable steps to satisfy themselves that 
Mr Cs father understood the risks involved in transferring out of his OPS. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this industry standard was met by PHFSL. 
Theres also nothing to suggest PHFSL had looked into whether Mr Cs fathers OPS would 
have used their discretionary powers to allow him to access his pension early. Hed left that 
job three years earlier. If he was still employed, this option would have been available to him. 
Whilst Im not saying his OPS would have permitted this, its certainly probable that given his 
particular set of circumstances, that it would have at least been considered.   Further, Mr C has told us that his father wasnt informed about the PP fees or how this would 
impact his investment growth. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was ever 
explained to him. Mr C has also said PHFSL informed his father that the PP would be certain 
to provide him with pension income, tax free lump sum and capital growth benefits 
significantly in excess of those that the [OPS] would provide. PHFSL have denied saying 
this. And the notes taken by the adviser, regarding the meeting with Mr Cs father in 1991, 
are lacking in detail. Im therefore unable to say whether this was said or perhaps implied. 
But according to Mr C, this is what his father recalled from his meeting. And that bears some 
weight in the absence of evidence to the contrary. This would have made the thought of 
transferring more alluring, especially if the risks hadnt been explained to Mr Cs father.
Having considered all of this, I do not believe PHFSLs advice was suitable. And I cannot 
see how they met the industry standard expected at the time. The recommendation to 
transfer out of his OPS wasnt in Mr Cs fathers best interest. I therefore conclude that if 
Mr Cs father had received suitable advice, it is more likely than not, that he would have 
chosen to remain in his OPS. This would have provided him with greater security in his 
retirement. Therefore a loss assessment needs to be carried out.  
Putting things right
Financial loss and redress
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PHFSL to put Mr Cs fathers estate, as far as 
possible, into the position it would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr Cs 
father would have remained in the occupational scheme. PHFSL  must therefore undertake 
a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
PHFSL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
fathers contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs fathers 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs fathers pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr Cs fathers estate as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Cs fathers likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr Cs fathers estate within 90 
days of the date Park Hall Financial Services Limited receives notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Park Hall Financial Services Limited to pay 
Mr Cs fathers estate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Park Hall Financial Services Limited to pay Mr Cs fathers estate in the manner set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C (on behalf of 
his late fathers estate) to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman