DRN-3898293
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled requests to 
transfer funds between accounts. 
What happened
At the end of July 2021 the late Mr M wrote to Barclays and asked it to transfer £20,000 from 
his sole named account to a joint account he held with his wife. Barclays wrote back to the 
late Mr M on 10 August 2021 but said it couldnt comply with his request as the signature 
records it held for him didnt match the signature on the instruction he sent by letter. Barclays 
asked Mr M to visit a branch so his signature mandate could be updated with the bank for 
future instructions. 
Letters were sent back to Barclays in the days that followed. The late Mr M and his wife 
asked for their accounts to be closed. The letter also raised several complaint points 
concerning how Barclays had acted.
A short time later, the late Mr M was admitted to hospital. During his stay he called Barclays 
to discuss the issue but the verification process wasnt completed and the call was 
disconnected. 
Sadly, the late Mr M died a short time later and his daughter contacted Barclays to notify it. 
Barclays went on to send the late Mr Ms wife a final response regarding his complaint. 
Barclays said that his transfer request couldnt be actioned because the signature held on 
file didnt match the letter hed sent. Barclays advised no error had been made as it wasnt 
able to act on the instruction received by letter. But Barclays apologised that it hadnt given 
other options for making the transfer when it had spoken with Mr M and offered £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
The estate of Mr Ms executor went back to Barclays in the weeks that followed. Barclays 
went on to increase the compensation offer to £150. 
An investigator at this service looked at the complaint. Within its file submission, Barclays 
sent us a copy of its signature mandate for the late Mr M but wasnt able to supply a copy of 
the original letter the late Mr M had sent requesting a transfer. But Barclays was able to send 
follow up letters the late Mr M had signed. The investigator didnt think Barclays had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by declining the transfer request. And the investigator thought 
Barclays had made a fair offer of £150 to settle the complaint. 
The estate of Mr M asked to appeal so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which this complaint 
has been referred to us. I can appreciate how distressing it was for the late Mr M and then 
his family that what felt like simple instructions werent followed. Its clear that the late Mr M 
was concerned with Barclays actions, taking the time to call it from hospital to try and 
resolve matters. And I understand the transfer funds were intended for investment. 
Whilst I dont doubt how upsetting the situation has been, I need to focus on whether 
Barclays handled the transfer request correctly and if it acted fairly by declining. Barclays 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it received from the late Mr M requesting the 
transfer. But it has supplied copies of other letters the late Mr M sent, along with a copy of its 
signature mandate for him. I appreciate the original letter isnt available, but I think its more 
likely than not that the late Mr Ms signature was in line with the letters he went on to send a 
short time later. And those signatures dont appear to be in line with the signature mandate 
Barclays held for the late Mr M. 
Barclays is required to ensure it only acts on properly authorised instructions. So when it 
receives a written request, like the one the late Mr M sent, it needs to verify its genuine. And 
part of that process involves checking the signature on the letter against Barclays records. I 
understand signatures can and do change over time. But Im satisfied Barclays had to be 
sure the late Mr M had authorised the transfer. Without being able to verify the signature 
against its records, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Barclays to decline to 
proceed. 
I can see the late Mr M went on to send letters to Barclays and called it from the hospital. 
Barclays says that when it received the late Mr Ms letters it raised a complaint. Ive read the 
letters in question and I can see complaints were made. Im satisfied Barclays response was 
reasonable. I know the late Mr M went on to call Barclays, but the security verification 
process wasnt completed and the call disconnected. Barclays accepts its agent shouldve 
given more information alternative ways to transfer funds between accounts and its offered 
a total of £150 to apologise for this. 
As Ive noted above, Im not persuaded Barclays acted unfairly or made a mistake when it 
declined to process the transfer after it was unable to verify the late Mr Ms signature. But I 
agree there was a delay in responding and that the service provided at times shouldve been 
better. Barclays has offered the estate of Mr M £150 to apologise for the inconvenience 
caused. Whilst Im sorry to disappoint the executors of the estate of Mr M, Im satisfied the 
offer is a reasonable way to resolve the complaint and fairly recognises the impact of the 
issues raised. As Im satisfied Barclays has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman