DRN-3552136
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Sabre Insurance Company Limited dealt with her claim on her 
car insurance policy. 
Mrs A is represented on this complaint but, for ease of reading Ill refer to Mrs A throughout. 
What happened
Mrs A was involved in a car accident, so she called Sabre who were her insurer. She said 
she didnt think she was at fault for the accident and asked Sabre to deal with her claim. 
Mrs A was initially referred to an accident management company, but the claim passed back 
to Sabre who accepted it and assessed Mrs As car under her car insurance policy. Due to 
the extent of the damage Sabre deemed the car beyond economical to repair (known as a 
total loss) and offered Mrs A the market value for her car. Mrs A didnt agree that her car 
was a total loss and complained. She asked to have it assessed physically rather than 
through photos. She also said Sabre had failed to pass her representatives details onto the 
relevant team which prevented them being able to speak to those involved in her claim. 
Sabre looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said theyd physically inspected 
the car and their engineer had deemed the car a total loss and put a category S marker on it. 
Sabre also didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not passing her representatives 
details on as they didnt have the permission to discuss the claim with them. Sabre said they 
would issue a payment to Mrs A for her car, minus the salvage value as Mrs A wished to 
keep the car. 
Mrs A didnt agree with Sabres response and referred her complaint here. She also 
responded to Sabre to say she hadnt been told she had a courtesy car on her policy and 
had therefore hired a car instead. She said her details had been passed to third party 
companies without her permission and she was receiving nuisance calls. Mrs A also 
complained about Sabres overall handling of her claim and asked for her own garage to 
assess the car. 
Sabre reviewed the additional points and issued another final response letter which upheld 
her complaint. They agreed the permission to discuss her claim with her representative 
hadnt been updated correctly and there had been poor claim handling. Because of the 
errors Sabre agreed to cover £166.97 for the cost of the hire car. They also agreed to cover 
the fees Mrs A had incurred from her chosen garage when theyd been unable to collect her 
car. Sabre also offered compensation for their errors and in total agreed to pay £590. Mrs A 
didnt think Sabres response was good enough and referred those points of complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommended it be upheld. They found 
that while there had been poor claim handling, they thought Sabre had done enough to put 
things right and hadnt acted unreasonably by deeming her car a total loss. Our investigator 
didnt find that Sabre had incorrectly passed Mrs As details to third party companies without 
her consent. They also thought that by paying for the two failed collection attempts and for 
Mrs As hire car, along with compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, was 
enough to put things right. 
Mrs A didnt agree and raised a number of detailed points. As Mrs A didnt agree the 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs A. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
I can see Mrs A has also raised concerns about the outcome of her claim and that this has 
been considered separately by this service. I therefore wont be commenting on the liability 
outcome of Mrs As claim in this decision. In this decision I will only be considering whether 
Sabre acted fairly and reasonably by deeming Mrs As car a total loss, whether Sabre 
passed on Mrs As details without her permission, and the poor claim handling. 
The terms and conditions for Mrs As policy say in the event of a claim for damage to Mrs As 
car Sabre will:
have the option to settle the claim by repair or replacement of your 
vehicle or paying in cash the amount of the loss or damage. The 
maximum amount payable will be the market value or declared value, 
whichever is the lower.
In Mrs As claim Sabre have opted to deem the car a total loss and pay her the market value. 
Ive therefore looked at whether its done so in a fair and reasonable way. Sabre have 
provided two engineers reports which say the estimated repair costs are more than the cars 
market value. I can also see an engineer who assessed Mrs As car categorised it as a 
Category S and so Sabre have applied that marker to Mrs As car. Considering this marker 
and the repair costs have been applied by an engineer, Im not persuaded Sabre have done 
anything wrong by deeming Mrs As car a total loss and categorising it as they have, as 
theyre entitled to do under the policy. Im therefore not going to tell them to do anything 
different in relation to these.  
Sabre have also confirmed that they havent passed Mrs As details onto any third parties, 
except those Mrs A agreed too. I can see Mrs A has provided phone records of phone 
numbers shes said are nuisance calls shes received. However, without knowing who the 
businesses are or knowing where they got Mrs As details from, Im not persuaded it shows 
Sabre incorrectly shared Mrs As information with them. 
Ive also considered the poor claim handling and the impact this had on Mrs A. Mrs A said 
she had two failed collection attempts by her chosen repairer (£90 each), which Sabre 
agreed to pay Mrs A for. Shes also hired a car which she says she didnt need too, which 
Sabre agreed to pay (£166.97). Sabre also agreed to pay Mrs A compensation for the poor 
claim handling and offered £590 in total. This is to cover the hire car costs, failed collections 
and distress and inconvenience. 
Sabre has therefore agreed to pay around £240 for the poor claim handling. I can see Mrs A 
has had numerous phone calls and e-mails and had the hassle of having to rearrange the collection attempts when they couldnt be completed. Shes also had a representative helping 
her with her claim. While I can understand Mrs As frustration and can see the rep has asked 
for their costs to be re-imbursed. Sabre havent agreed to these, and as our service is free to 
use and you dont need a representative to refer a complaint here. I wouldnt normally award 
any representatives costs. Im therefore satisfied that what Sabre offered is enough to 
compensate Mrs A for the errors. So, Im not going to tell them to pay anymore.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Sabre Insurance Company 
Limiteds offer of £590 is fair and reasonable. If not already paid Sabre Insurance Company 
Limited need to pay this to Mrs A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman