DRN-4526586
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank didnt do enough 
to protect him from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help 
him recover the money once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In May 2022 Mr G met someone on social media who Ill refer to as the scammer. They 
engaged in a few messages on the platform before exchanging numbers and communicating 
via WhatsApp. Mr G began to build a friendship with the scammer, exchanging photographs, 
videos and voice notes, and the scammer said he worked in data and was into investments.
The scammer told Mr G he was making a lot of money through trading in cryptocurrency and 
that he used an investment platform Ill refer to as D. He said he would teach him how to 
invest and that he wanted to share the joy of trading with him. Mr G started to worry that he 
was pushing the scammer away, so he agreed to invest.
The scammer told him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. He told him to open an 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange company and that he needed to buy £100 USDT, 
which would generate a daily profit.
Between 13 May 2022 and 20 June 2022, he made 12 transfers totalling £12,999.94 from 
his Ulster account. The initial investment of £50 on 13 May 2022 was blocked by Ulster and 
during the subsequent call, Mr G was asked what the payment was for, and the payment 
was released. Over the next 17 days, Mr G made six payments totalling £2,499.94, after 
which the scammer persuaded him to upgrade his trading account to the gold package, 
which meant that he would get a higher return. He was then asked to transfer £10,000 to 
meet the deposit requirement, but as he didnt have the money, he asked if the scammer to 
lend him £1,900.
On 20 June 2022 Mr G was told his account was frozen and he needed to transfer £3,000 to 
unfreeze the account. He asked the scammer for help but he refused and so he made two 
payments to cover the amount due. He realised hed been scammed when the scammer 
stopped replying and he could no longer access the trading platform.
Mr G complained to Ulster arguing it had failed to flag the payments as suspicious, but it 
refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It said it had acted on Mr Gs genuine 
instructions to process the payments and all the payments were sent to an account in Mr Gs 
own name before being transferred. It also said wasnt the point of the loss, so he would 
need to complain to the cryptocurrency exchange company he paid, and he had failed to 
carry out due diligence on the scammer or to take appropriate care when using the 
cryptocurrency wallet.
Ulster further explained it placed appropriate and relevant warning messages across its 
online banking facility to warn customers about scams and information is made available on 
its websites and within its branches. Warnings are displayed before making a transfer or 
adding a new payee and a tailored scam warning is displayed, requiring customers to 
confirm they are confident they have read and understood the advice and they are satisfied 
they have taken relevant steps.
It said if Mr G had followed the advice, he wouldnt have fallen victim to the scam and the 
payments were genuinely made using his secure online banking facility and there were no 
concerns at that time on the validity of the payments.
It said that as the payments were made to an account in Mr Gs name, the CRM code 
wouldnt apply and it acknowledged he had vulnerabilities, but it didnt accept there was any 
reason why he wouldnt have been able to avoid being the victim to a scam.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He said he thought the investment was genuine, having received no effective 
warning or advice from Ulster and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments if he 
knew the investment could be a scam. He also said he was susceptible to scams and this 
should have been considered as a part of the investigation.
Mr Gs representative said Ulster should have intervened as Mr G made 12 payments to a 
new payee linked to cryptocurrency within the space of 37 days and it should have 
intervened to protect him. They said the pop-up warnings were not specific so they couldnt 
be considered effective.
They noted Ulster had identified the first payment as unusual and contacted Mr G to confirm 
he was making the payment, which was an opportunity to ask relevant questions to 
determine the true nature of the payments. They also said it should have intervened when 
he made the later payments which were for larger amounts and if it had asked relevant 
questions, it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam.
Specifically, it should have asked him where he came across the opportunity, whether there 
was a third party involved, whether hed done any research, whether hed been promised 
unrealistic returns and whether hed received any withdrawals and that its likely he would 
have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had originated from a broker.
They said Mr G wasnt prompted to give false answers and so Ulster should have realised 
he the investment had the typical hallmarks a scam.
My provisional findings
I explained that the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr G says hes fallen victim 
to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Ulster had said the CRM code didnt apply in 
this case because Mr G paid an account in his own name, and I was satisfied that was fair 
and applies to all the four bank transfer payments.
I was also satisfied Mr G authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I explained theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr G didnt intend his 
money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Ulster is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the 
customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the 
bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether Ulster could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Ulster had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr G when he tried to 
make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Ulster to intervene with a view to protecting Mr G from financial harm due to fraud.
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Ulsters systems. This was a new account and so 
there was no spending history to compare the payments with, but I agreed with our 
investigator that the first nine payments were low value payments to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange and so they werent unusual for the account. However, I noted that 
on 1 June 2022, Mr G made a payment of £5,000 and, based on the fact this was a high 
value payment to a cryptocurrency merchant, I thought Ulster should have intervened.
During the call, Mr G should have been asked questions around the purpose of the 
payments, whether there was a third party involved and, if so, how hed met the third party, 
whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed been told to download remote 
access software to his device and whether hed been told to make an onwards payment from 
the cryptocurrency exchange. And as theres no evidence that hed been coached to lie, I 
was satisfied Ulster would have had enough information to identify that he was being 
scammed.
I said I would then expect Ulster to have warned Mr G about the risks associated with the 
investment and to have explained that there were red flags present including the fact he was 
taking investment advice from someone hed met on social media and that hed been told to 
make an onwards payment from the cryptocurrency exchange. Id also expect it to discuss 
with him the nature of the checks hed undertaken and to give some advice on additional due 
diligence.
There were no warnings about D on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have 
alerted Mr G to the fact there was a scam. But I hadnt seen any evidence that he was keen 
to take risks and he didnt have a history of high-risk investing, so I thought that if hed had 
any inkling this might be a scam, its unlikely hed have gone ahead with any more 
payments.
Consequently, I thought Ulster missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to 
do so might have prevented Mr Gs loss and I was minded to direct it to refund the money he 
lost from 1 June 2022 onwards.
Contributory negligence
I explained theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence. Mr G had said he researched D and that he 
also contacted the cryptocurrency exchange company who told him it looked like a genuine 
company. He also explained that he hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before, so this was an 
area with which he was unfamiliar, so he wouldnt have known the returns were unrealistic or 
how to check the information hed been given. This unfamiliarity was compounded by the sophisticated nature of the scam, the fact he 
believed he could see his profits on the trading platform and the fact he believed hed built a 
genuine friendship with the scammer. So, while I accepted Mr G shouldnt have taken 
investment advice from some he met online, in the circumstances, I didnt think he could 
fairly be held responsible for his own loss.
Compensation
I explained Mr G was unhappy that Ulster refused to refund the money he lost to the scam, 
but Ulster isnt responsible for the distress and inconvenience he suffered, so he isnt entitled 
to any compensation or legal costs.
Developments
Ulster has clarified that the final three payments took place on 17 June 2022 (£1,000),19 
June 2022 (£2,000), and 20th June 2022 (£5,000).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the final three payments happened on 17 June 2022, 19 June 2022, and 20 June 
2022 and not 1 June 2022, 20 June 2022, and 20 June 2022 as I have said in my provisional 
decision. 
I maintain that Ulster should have intervened when Mr G made the £5,000 payment, but as 
this was the final payment, it only needs to refund this amount.
Ulster hasnt made any comments which relate to contributory negligence and so I remain 
satisfied that whilst there may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is 
appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank should:
Refund Mr G £5,000.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank deducts tax in relation to the 
interest element of this award it should provide Mr G with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman