DRN-3961614
The complaint
Miss P, a director of a limited company, I, complains on its behalf that Barclays Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) agreed to open a client account for I but didnt do so.
What happened
Miss P opened a business account for I with Barclays. She says this was on the condition 
that it would also open a client account for it too.
When she applied for the client account for I it was rejected because I did not meet the 
eligibility criteria. Miss P was unhappy, so she complained.
Barclays responded and said it never promised I a client account. It explained that in order to 
hold a client account the business must meet certain eligibility requirements and I didnt 
meet these. It said it was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Barclays 
did however agree to pay Miss P £75 compensation for any miscommunication and trouble 
caused.
Miss P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. They 
thought it had acted in line with regulatory requirements and its internal policies when 
rejecting the client account. They thought the compensation of £75 was fair and reasonable 
for any miscommunication with Miss P. Miss P disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for banks to decide what criteria is required when opening an account. In this case, 
Barclays required I to be registered with one of its approved regulators. Because it wasnt 
registered, Barclays said it couldnt open a client account. Having reviewed Barclays reason 
for rejecting the account, along with its internal requirements - Im satisfied it acted fairly. 
I understand Miss P feels strongly that Barclays led her to believe it would be able to open a 
client account for I. In particular, she says she was told this during a phone call. Ive listened 
to the telephone call. I can understand why Miss P mightve felt confused and that it was 
likely the client account would be authorised. But I dont think any promises were made, it 
was more of a discussion about how Barclays might be able to open the account without all 
the necessary requirements. Barclays has apologised for any miscommunication and agreed 
to pay Miss P £75 for this. I havent seen anything that makes me think Barclays needs to 
compensate I for the impact of its actions. So, Miss B is free to contact Barclays directly to 
accept the £75, but I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more here. 
I know Miss P was concerned she was paying for her business current account. Ive 
reviewed the welcome letter and it explained that Miss P had free banking for the first 11 
months  which lasted until March 2023. I think the letter was clear about when this period 
ended, so I dont think Barclays need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman