DRN-4332868
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc blocked his current account without warning.
What happened
Mr M noticed his TSB current account had been blocked. He telephoned TSB about this and 
was told his account had been blocked to prompt him to call TSB as they wanted to talk to 
him about arrears that had accrued on his Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Mr M wasnt happy 
that TSB had blocked his account without warning, especially as hed been ill and was 
recovering mentally and physically from being mugged. So, he raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Mr M and explained that they had tried to contact him about the arrears 
on his BBL without success on several occasions, and so they didnt feel that theyd done 
anything wrong by encouraging Mr M to contact them by blocking his account. Mr M wasnt 
satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel TSB had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB have explained that Mr M had missed three payments on his BBL. Because of this, TSB 
were eager to speak with Mr M about these arrears as his BBL was approaching a position 
where TSB would consider Mr M to have not met his contractual repayment obligations on 
the BBL such that the loan might need to be defaulted.
In such circumstances, its clearly understandable that TSB would want to speak with Mr M. 
And TSB have shown that they made several phone calls to Mr M which went unanswered 
and on which voicemail messages were left by TSB asking Mr M to contact them.
Mr M has said that he ignored TSBs calls as he was concerned that the calls might be from 
a scammer. I can understand Mr Ms caution in this regard. But given that TSB left voicemail 
messages asking Mr M to contact them, its difficult to understand why Mr M didnt respond 
to those messages and contact TSB himself.
Additionally, TSB have also demonstrated that they sent several emails to Mr M which also 
explained that his BBL was in arrears, and which asked Mr M to contact them. And, as the 
BBL account holder, it was Mr Ms responsibility to have monitored the ongoing status of the 
account and to have been aware of missed payments  regardless of whether he was 
receiving notifications from TSB about these missed payments or not.
Mr M has explained that he had recently recovered from a serious illness and that he had 
also been mugged, from which he was physically and mentally recovering. I can only 
sympathise with Mr M in this regard. But Mr Ms contractual repayment obligations on the 
BBL remained in place during the period in question. Also, TSB cant provide assistance for 
events they arent told about. And TSB have no record of being informed of Mr Ms illness of 
his being mugged, until Mr M called them following their blocking his account.
Mr M has explained that he did inform TSB about what had happened to him by written 
letter. But TSB have no record of receiving any such letter from Mr M. And I feel that the 
ongoing stream of emails and telephone calls that Mr M was receiving from TSB after he 
sent his letter to TSB should reasonably have indicated to him that his letter might not have 
been received.
Ultimately, I dont feel TSB have done anything wrong or acted unfairly by blocking Mr Ms 
current account as they did. This is because Mr Ms BBL was close to being defaulted for 
non-payment. And I feel it was reasonable for TSB to want to speak with Mr M and give him 
the opportunity to recover the position of his BBL rather than just default the loan.
Im also satisfied that TSB made repeated attempts to contact Mr M about his BBL arrears 
by various channels, which Mr M didnt respond to. And, while Mr M is unhappy that his 
account was blocked without warning, its difficult to understand what warning TSB could 
have provided, given that Mr M wasnt responding to TSBs phone calls or correspondence.
Finally, because TSB hadnt been made aware of the difficult personal events Mr M had 
recently faced, they were unable to take these into consideration. It also must be noted that 
banks such as TSB arent expected to allow arrears to continue to accrue on a loan 
indefinitely, even if the loan account holder has experienced personal difficulties. And this 
means that even if TSB had been informed about Mr Ms illness and mugging before the 
BBL payments were missed, its highly likely that they would still have felt obliged to default 
Mr Ms BBL for non-payment, had further scheduled payments for the BBL been missed.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any 
further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman