DRN-2284108
The complaint
his complaint is about fees and charges that have been charged on Ms Cs mortgage with 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. Ms C complains that the fees and charges added to 
her account were excessively high and therefore unfair. The mortgage was originally taken 
out with a different lender, but later transferred to Kensington. For clarity, Ill refer to 
Kensington throughout, even when mentioning events that took place prior to the transfer.
What happened
In a decision earlier this month, I confirmed that our jurisdiction to consider this complaint 
was confined to those fees and charges applied from November 2015 onwards. Our 
investigator had previously assessed those charges for fairness, and concluded that 
Kensington hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs C didnt agree and wants her complaint 
decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. One situation where we 
generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied fairly is if the customer has 
paid either the contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment 
arrangement. 
Ive looked at the fees and charges Kensington applied from November 2015 up to the 
mortgage being redeemed in June 2019; Ive also looked at Mrs Cs payment record during 
that period. The last payment, regular or otherwise, that Mrs C made to the account before 
redemption was £200 in August 2015. Using the fairness test set out in the previous 
paragraph, I dont find that any of the fees and charges applied from November 2015 
onwards were levied unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award against Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman