DRN-4349462
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as First Direct) didnt do enough to 
protect him when he was the victim of a crypto investment scam.
Mr B is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr B throughout 
this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
In September 2022 Mr B said he made an online enquiry with a company (who Ill refer to 
as P) about investing in crypto. He said hed seen endorsements on trading in Bitcoin from 
Elon Musk  and videos from investors talking about the profits theyd made. 
Mr B was contacted by who he was told was a trader (the scammer) working for P. He 
said he found the scammer professional and articulate. And the presence of online 
reviews and news articles about P reassured him of its legitimacy.  
With the help from the scammer, Mr B downloaded several apps on his mobile phone. This 
included remote access software, an account with a legitimate crypto exchange (which Ill 
refer to as C), and Ps trading app. 
On 3 September 2022 Mr B transferred £250 from another bank to Ps trading platform, 
via C, and he said the funds were immediately visible in his trading account. 
Over the next couple of weeks, Mr B communicated with the scammer about investment 
opportunities. He said he expressed some concern at the initial amount the scammer 
suggested he invest (£8,000)  and so a reduced amount of £2,000 was agreed. Mr B said 
he was also able to withdraw £100 from his trading account. 
Mr B said the scammer suggested he open a new bank account to facilitate the trading. He 
opened an account with First Direct on 20 September 2022.
On 6 October 2022 Mr B set up a new payee with the reference of crypto to make a 
payment of £2,000. He received a fraud warning, and the payment was blocked. First 
Direct spoke to Mr B on several occasions about this payment. The payment wasnt 
processed because of what appears to have been an administrative error. 
Between 13 October and 9 December 2022  Mr B made the following payments from his 
First Direct account to C totalling £67,960:
Date payee Amount 
13/10/22 crypto £2,001
26/10/22 crypto £3,000
28/10/22 crypto £3,001
7/11/22 crypto £14,003
11/11/22 crypto £10,001
17/11/22 crypto £8,501
21/11/22 crypto £9,301
24/11/22 crypto £10,851
9/12/22 crypto £7,301
First Direct issued a fraud warning in relation to the 13 October 2022 £2,001 payment and 
spoke again with Mr B. This payment was successfully processed. First Direct flagged no 
other payments as suspicious. 
Around the middle of November 2022 Mr B decided he wanted to withdraw his money. He 
was told by the scammer that his account had been frozen due to market conditions and 
he needed to pay an insurance to protect his profits  as well as a sum to cover 
commission.  Mr B was also advised by the scammer that he needed to make a further 
payment to comply with anti-money laundering regulations.
Mr B made the requested payments and the scammer told him the funds would be paid 
into his account with C. But after further communication, Mr B was told thered been a 
problem and hed need to pay a further amount to recover his funds. Mr B said he had no 
option to do as the scammer advised, and having taken out a loan, paid a further £7,301. 
On 15 December 2022 Mr B telephoned First Direct to ask its advice about the payments 
he was being asked to make to facilitate the withdrawal. First Direct said it was concerned 
Mr B was the victim of a scam and put a block on his online banking. First Direct spoke to 
Mr B again on 19 December 2022. It said as hed transferred money to an account in his 
own name (his account with C), there was no claim rights under the CRM code.
By February 2023 Mr B lost contact with the scammer and was unable to access his 
account. At this point he realised hed been the victim of a scam. And in March 2023 he 
complained to First Direct, via his representatives. He said First Direct shouldve done 
more to protect him. 
First Direct believed it had provided effective warnings to Mr B and yet hed proceeded with 
the payments. It therefore didnt think it was responsible for Mr Bs loss. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He maintained First Direct hadnt done enough to protect him and shouldve 
asked more probing questions when it spoke to him. Mr B said he wouldve taken First 
Directs advice and said if I had any inclination that this was a scam I would not have gone 
through with the payments. Mr B wanted the funds returned, plus 8% interest, as well as 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought First 
Direct had done enough to protect Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. He accepted that 
he hadnt been completely transparent when questioned by First Direct about the payments 
 but contended that if First Direct had asked more probing questions relating to the 
specifics of crypto investment scams  his loss couldve been prevented. Mr B added that 
he had been upfront and honest with First Direct when they spoke on 15 December 2022, 
and it asked him more probing questions. 
Mr B also questioned why First Direct didnt intervene with the £14,003 payment. He said 
this was an unusually high amount and shouldve been of concern to First Direct  and 
more probing questions at this point wouldve uncovered the scam. On that basis, 
Mr B wanted us to consider a refund of payments made from the £14,003 payment 
onwards, less 50% to allow for shared liability. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr B was hoping for and so this will 
come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear hes been the victim of a scam and 
has lost money as a result. I can understand why hed want to do all he can to recover 
the money he lost. But I need to decide whether First Direct can fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for Mr Bs loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions Mr B made were authorised payments, even though he was the 
victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although he didnt intend the money 
to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider First Direct should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if First Direct acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr B when he made the payments, specifically whether it 
shouldve done more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, would that 
have made a difference. 
Mr B had several interactions with First Direct  as well as receiving a fraud warning. His 
first attempted payment to C on 6 October 2022 generated the following:
Fraudsters are contacting people offering investments that sound genuine. Take extra 
care, especially if you have received a call after searching online for investments or filling 
in an online form. 
And I can see from First Directs records that this warning was generated again when 
Mr B attempted the 13 October 2022 payment.  
The attempted payments on 6 and 13 October 2022 prompted several telephone calls 
between Mr B and First Direct. Where there is interaction between a bank and its 
customer in relation to a payment, wed expect the bank to take this opportunity to find 
out more about the nature of that payment. And so, Ive thought carefully about whether First Direct asked the right questions during its interactions with Mr B to fully understand 
the nature of the transactions he was trying to make. And I do think it did enough. 
During these conversations, First Direct enquired how the investment had come about to 
which Mr B said it was via a friend. He mentioned C but said no third party was 
involved. Mr B maintained his position throughout the telephone calls, as well as being 
clear with First Direct that he was aware of the risks involved and had done his own 
research. And that he had read and understood the fraud warnings First Direct had 
provided. Mr B said only he had access to his account with C and this wasnt the first 
time hed used C  confirming hed made a payment from another bank account. 
Firstly, from listening to the telephone calls, Mr B was engaged in the conversation with 
First Direct and was confident in his responses. So, I dont think First Direct had any 
obvious reason to doubt what Mr B was saying. 
Looking at First Directs line of questioning, it asked Mr B, on several occasions, if there 
was any third-party involvement or if hed been asked by anyone to send money to C. 
Mr B mightve interpreted this question differently when he responded that he was 
investing for himself and wanted to make some money for his retirement  but I think First 
Directs questions were clearly trying to ascertain if there was a third party involved here  
a clear hallmark of a crypto scam. This provided Mr B with the opportunity of explaining 
hed been contacted by someone from P  with whom hed been actively communicating 
with since early September 2022. And that trades were being done on his behalf via an 
account set up by P. Yet Mr B didnt divulge any of this information to First Direct  
despite this exact scenario being outlined in the written fraud warnings Mr B said he 
received and understood. 
Mr B accepts he wasnt completely honest with First Direct, but has said it shouldve 
probed more deeply, asking more crypto investment scam specific questions, and not just 
relied on what he said. But I think First Direct gave Mr B ample opportunity to divulge the 
background to the investment. And it specifically asked him if hed been coached into what 
to say to mislead and ensure the payments went through  which Mr B said he hadnt. So, 
I dont think First Direct wouldve had an obvious reason to disbelieve what Mr B was 
saying. Nor do I think Mr B provided information that wouldve prompted a different line of 
questioning from First Direct. 
I agree that at times during the telephone calls First Direct spoke in more general terms 
about the risks related to crypto investment scams  but some of that did apply to Mr B. 
In particular, First Direct made it clear to Mr B that theyd seen lots of scams around 
crypto investments and had seen lots of complaints about scams linked to C. It 
explained how scam websites and trading platforms can look genuine  and that he 
should be wary of third parties asking him to transfer money. But again, despite First 
Directs clear fraud warnings to Mr B about scammers targeting people after completing 
online forms  as he had done  Mr B still didnt divulge the origin of the investment and 
who was advising him.
Much of First Directs questioning does focus on C. Ultimately, C is a legitimate 
company, and First Direct, as the experts, should be aware that scammers often use 
legitimate companies as part of the scam to make the investment appear genuine and 
harder to detect. 
But I think First Direct made reasonably sufficient attempts whilst questioning Mr B to 
ascertain if there was a third party involved. But he didnt tell First Direct that  instead 
saying hed known about C for a while having found information about it online and from 
other people he knew - and had used them before to make payments from another bank account. I cant reasonably say First Direct was at fault here. It asked Mr B direct questions 
designed to further tease out if there was any third-party behind the investment. But Mr B 
gave no indication that was the case and provided answers which reassured First Direct 
he was the only person involved, that he knew what he was doing, and was prepared to 
take the risk. 
Ive thought about whether any more probing by First Direct or its intervention in other 
payments wouldve made a difference. But I dont think it wouldve done.
I can tell from the conversations between Mr B and First Direct that he was completely 
caught up in the scam. As Ive said above, he spoke with confidence about what he was 
doing and was very keen for the payments to be processed without further delay  which 
partly, I accept, was likely influenced by the amount of time hed spent speaking to First 
Direct and the repeated questions. But Im also mindful that this prolonged interaction 
gave Mr B more time to reflect on the warnings First Direct was giving  and the accuracy 
and significance of the answers he was providing.
Im also mindful that Mr Bs initial contact with P was because hed enquired about 
investing in crypto. He wasnt contacted out of the blue or pressured into investing  it had 
been his choice. He was also engaged with P about the initial investment, and the amount 
he was comfortable investing, for a month prior to any payments being made. 
This all suggests to me an element of choice in Mr Bs actions and an appetite to take a 
risk. And I must remember that First Direct was limited in providing effective warnings to 
Mr B because of his lack of disclosure. But despite the warnings it did give being relevant to 
the situation Mr B was in, he proceeded with the payments, nonetheless. All of this, I think, 
increases the likelihood of Mr B continuing with the payments regardless of any warnings 
First Direct gave.
Mr B was also able to access his account with C and could see his first payment appear in 
his account and was able to take out £100. He was also able to access his trading account 
with P and see how his investment was performing after each payment was made. So, to 
his mind, there was nothing obvious to be concerned about.  
Ive also listened to the telephone call Mr B had with First Direct on 15 December 2022. I 
accept Mr Bs point that he was upfront and honest with First Direct during this call  but I 
would suggest that wasnt because First Direct asked more probing questions than in 
previous telephone calls. Rather, it was because Mr B was clearly concerned about getting 
access to his money  and was seeking reassurance from First Direct. And by offering up 
information about how the scam came about and the role of P  this immediately enabled 
First Direct to probe more deeply and take reasonable steps to protect Mr B. This also 
demonstrated what First Direct would likely have done if Mr B had provided accurate 
answers to questions asked by First Direct in relation to the first two payments. 
Considering all these points, Im satisfied First Direct did enough to reasonably ascertain 
whether Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud  and, based on the information 
Mr B disclosed, Im satisfied First Direct gave reasonable appropriate warnings and advice 
to Mr B. And even if it had probed or questioned Mr B further on a later transaction(s), 
theres nothing to suggest he wouldve answered any differently. It was only at the point in 
mid-December 2022 when the scammer was asking Mr B for money to cover an 
international payment fee that he had any concerns at all  and even at that point  despite 
clear indications from First Direct that this was a scam  Mr B seemed reluctant to accept 
that this was possible. He was still able to access and see his accounts with P and C at 
this time, and it wasnt until February 2023, when all contact was lost, that Mr B accepted 
the investment was a scam. Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr B has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. But I think First Direct did enough to try and protect 
him. And I think any reasonable further action from First Direct is unlikely to have made a 
difference. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold First Direct accountable for Mr Bs 
loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman