DRN-4117153
The complaint
Miss H complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant), regarding a claim 
under her mobile phone insurance policy for damage to her phone. 
Assurant uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Reference to Assurant in this decision includes those agents. 
This complaint relates to Assurant as the insurer of the mobile phone insurance policy as 
part of a package of benefits provided with Miss Hs bank account, for which she pays a 
monthly fee. The complaint doesnt relate to the bank account, or the bank concerned
What happened
In August 2022 Miss Hs phone was damaged, with a broken screen and back panel. She 
contacted Assurant to tell them about the damage and make a claim. She sent the phone to 
Assurant (paying the £100 excess under the policy) and a phone was sent back to her the 
following month. Given the extent of the damage to her phone, Miss H thought the phone 
was a replacement phone. 
However, on closer inspection, Miss H saw it was her phone that had been repaired, but with 
parts that werent genuine parts from the manufacturer (the screen didnt sit flush with the 
phone and the settings on the phone indicated genuine parts hadnt been used). Miss H 
contacted Assurant, unhappy with the situation, but was told using non-manufacturer parts 
was standard practice and in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
Subsequently, the phone screen became more raised from the phone and in January 2023 
the phone became very hot, and a screen message said the phone was overheating and 
shouldnt be used. However, the phone became so hot Miss H dropped it, damaging the 
front and back of the phone. Miss H contacted a manufacturer phone store, who said the 
most likely explanation for what happened was incorrect parts in the phones repair, causing 
the battery to overheat and leading to the screen moving out of alignment with the phone.
Miss H then contacted Assurant to tell them what had happened, expecting them to repair or 
replace the phone (as the returned phone came with a 180-day warranty). After some 
discussion, Miss H returned the phone to Assurant. However, she was then contacted by 
Assurant and told that because shed dropped the phone, it wasnt covered by the warranty 
and they wouldnt repair or replace it (and theyd return it to her) unless she made a new 
claim under the policy (and paid the £100 excess, being per claim). Miss H declined to do 
so, maintaining shed dropped the phone because of the overheating, so the damage should 
be covered under the warranty.
Miss H challenged Assurants position, who treated her challenge as a complaint, but they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said the warranty covered the device 
against mechanical or electrical faults  not damage by the consumer. When Miss H 
returned the phone in January 2023, it was damaged, so a new claim would be needed (with 
the excess payable) for it to be repaired or replaced. 
 
Separately from her complaint, when her phone was returned from Assurant, she thought it 
further damaged. She had it examined in one of the phone stores on three occasions (in 
February 2023) and was told the phone had been badly repaired (when originally repaired in 
September 2022). When she tried to use the phone it overheated and stopped working. She 
then purchased a refurbished phone of the same model as her own phone from the phone 
store (£369), trading in her old phone.
Unhappy at what had happened, Miss H complained to this service. She thought Assurant 
hadnt acted fairly as theyd returned her repaired phone in a poor condition, using non-
manufacturer parts, which then overheated causing her to drop it and further damage. They 
had then said shed have to make a new claim (and pay £100) to have the phone repaired a 
second time. Given what happened previously, she wasnt prepared to do this. She wanted 
Assurant to reimburse the cost of replacing her phone (£369) and compensation to cover the 
time shed spent visiting the phone store, including travel and parking costs (£100).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that based on the information 
and evidence available, it was unclear whether the damage to the phone (in January 2023) 
was due to being dropped by Miss H or it had overheated (causing her to drop it). But if there 
had been a problem with the phone overheating, the investigator thought it would have been 
apparent sooner than it did and should have been reported to Assurant. The investigator 
considered the evidence (from Assurant) the phone had been quality assurance checked 
before being returned to Miss H (in September 2022) as well as that from the phone store 
who examined the phone after it was returned to Miss H (in January 2023). On balance the 
investigator was more persuaded by the evidence from Assurant. 
Miss H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said the evidence shed provided from three phone shop technicians 
(who tested the phone) concluded the phone wasnt fit for purpose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Assurant have acted fairly towards Miss H.
The key issue in Miss Hs complaint is whether Assurant acted fairly in declining to repair or 
replace her phone on the second occasion, saying it wouldnt be covered under the warranty 
provided when it was first repaired. Miss H says the phone wasnt repaired properly the first 
time, leading it to overheat and causing her to drop it (so causing the damage). Assurant say 
the warranty wouldnt cover damage from Miss H dropping the phone, so shed have to 
make a second claim for the phone to be repaired under the policy (not the warranty). 
In considering the complaint, Ive carefully considered the views of Miss H, together with the 
reports shes provided from the phone store who examined the phone. Ive also considered 
the views of Assurant, including their records of the repair of the phone in September 2022.
As one of the issues in Miss Hs complaint is that her phone was repaired using non-
manufacturer parts, Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions on this issue. Theres 
a reference (under the heading What you need to know about the claims process that 
states:
,,,Repairs may be made using readily available parts, or we may provide refurbished 
products which may contain parts, which are of a similar or equivalent specification, 
and which may contain unbranded parts.I think this makes it clear repairs may involve parts that arent original manufacturer items 
(unbranded parts). Which is consistent with what Miss H said she was told when she 
contacted Assurant after the phone was returned in September 2022.
Turning to the main issue of the complaint, Assurant declining to repair (or replace) the 
phone under warranty the second time it was damaged, Ive looked at the terms of the 
warranty provided when the phone was returned after its repair. It states:
Your warranty covers any mechanical and electrical failures as a result of any 
manufacturing faults or defects. If this occurs please contact [us] and we will look to 
resolve the problem. The warranty will not be valid if the defect is caused by any 
faults resulting from customer damage, misuse, neglect or tampering or if any 
alterations and/or repairs are carried out by someone other than us or our approved 
repairers.
The issue then becomes one of whether the damage to the phone in January 2023 was due 
to consumer damage (as Assurant maintains) or due to the battery overheating (causing 
Miss H to drop it). Miss Hs view is that the latter means it was a fault with the phone, 
indicating a mechanical or electrical failure  and so should have been covered under the 
warranty. In considering this point, what isnt disputed is that Miss H dropped the phone  its 
the underlying cause where the views differ. And whether the phone being dropped caused 
the damage subsequently recorded in the phone store reports. 
At this point, Ive considered the evidence provided by Assurant and by Miss H (the phone 
store reports). Assurant have provided their quality assurance report on the phone at the 
time it was repaired and returned to Miss H. While Miss H says she noticed the non-
manufacturer parts and screen being off alignment, the overheating she said she 
experienced seems to have only developed some time after the repair. Ive thought about 
this, and while its not possible to form a definitive conclusion, on the balance of probabilities, 
had the issue been one arising from the repair, I dont think it likely to have not appeared 
until the time it did (if the repair was faulty, I would have expected it to become apparent 
sooner). Together with the evidence from the quality assurance check, I dont think, on the 
balance of probabilities, to conclude the repair led to the overheating issue (as opposed to it 
arising from some other cause).
Looking at the reports from the phone store, the first records the condition of the phone as 
presented, including the damage that would have occurred from it being dropped. It also 
records some heating in part of the phone. The second report includes similar information 
but comments the bottom of battery showed signs of being tampered with and starting 
separate, and an unsafe modification. The third report refers to the overall condition of the 
phone and that it is being replaced at an out of warranty cost (the phone was out of the 
manufacturers warranty) as it was deemed a safety concern.
Taking these reports together, I dont think they provide clear evidence the issue with 
overheating was caused by Assurants repair, so I cant reasonably conclude the phone 
should have been repaired (or replaced) under the Assurant warranty. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Assurant to say the damage when Miss H dropped the phone was (under 
the terms of the warranty) consumer damage. And so wouldnt be covered by the warranty.
That being the case, I think it was reasonable for Assurant to offer to repair or replace the 
phone under the terms of the policy (which would have been a second claim allowed under 
the policy terms and conditions in any one year).My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman