DRN-3012522
The complaint
Mr P complains the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Financial Services (VFS), was not of 
satisfactory quality. He also complains about the customer service he received at the 
dealership.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr P acquired a new car financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
VFS. In December 2020 the car developed a fault. The breakdown recovery diagnosed a 
gearbox problem and recommended the car go back to a manufacturers dealer under 
warranty. Mr P first went to one dealership garage and was then told to go to another, where 
he found the staff rude, obnoxious, and arrogant. He was told to leave the car, that no 
courtesy car was available, and he should come back in seven to ten days time, which 
happened to be Christmas Day. Mr P said it seemed like it was all a big joke to the staff. 
Mr P said the garage had his car for four weeks and after running tests told him it needed a 
new gearbox, which the manufacturer authorised. He said he was then told the fault was due 
to contaminated fuel, which he'd purchased from a local independent garage in good faith. 
The dealership drained the fuel tank and put fresh fuel in which rectified the fault. Mr P said 
he was only charged for the fuel. Mr P brought a complaint to the dealer after the staff were 
rude and arrogant with him and when test driving his vehicle had turned off his dashboard 
camera.
Although the dealer agreed the only charge was for the fuel Mr P said it then tried to 
retrospectively charge him for work two to three weeks after the event. Again, when he 
challenged this Mr P said the service manager was rude and aggressive.
Mr P said he's been affected financially and emotionally by this matter and has been let 
down by the manufacturers dealership staff. He said he wanted the dealer and all parties 
concerned to acknowledge their failures and learn from them. He also wanted to be put right 
financially. He said he'd lost all pleasure of the car and had no faith in the local dealers.
In its final response VFS said the dealership had been unable to find fault with the gearbox 
and that there was no manufacturing defect. It said the dealership found fuel contamination 
and would not be upholding Mr P's complaint.
Mr P wasn't happy and brought his complaint to this service. He also complained about how 
he was treated by the dealership and by VFS. Our investigator concluded that there was 
nothing wrong with the car when it was supplied to Mr P, so he didn't think VFS had supplied 
a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
Regarding the behaviour of the staff at the dealership our investigator concluded that Mr P's 
complaint relates to service and behaviour after he had entered the agreement. As such he 
said these actions are not regulated activities and our service is unable to consider a 
complaint about them.
Mr P didn't agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He added some 
further comments and where appropriate I have responded to them below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr P but having done so I wont be asking 
VFS to do anything further. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
In hire purchase agreements the finance provider, in this case VFS, becomes the owner of 
the vehicle and is subject to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The law says that goods 
supplied should be of satisfactory quality. I must take account of relevant law so I must 
consider whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when Mr P acquired it at the point of 
sale. 
It's not disputed that there was a problem with Mr Ps car just a few months after he took 
delivery of it. At the time he said the breakdown service diagnosed the fault to be related to 
the gearbox. This diagnosis was initially confirmed by the manufacturers dealership after it 
checked the car over a period of four weeks. Following further checks VFS has told this 
service the fault was caused by fuel contamination. 
Mr P confirmed in his complaint to this service that following draining the tank and refilling it 
the fault was rectified. No further evidence of a fault with the gearbox has been provided by 
either Mr P or VFS. So Im satisfied the problem with the car was related to the fuel 
contamination and was rectified, and that the car was likely of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. 
Mr P said he is out of pocket financially and was retrospectively charged for the work on the 
car to replace the fuel. I do understand Mr Ps frustration. He said he filled the tank from a 
local independent garage in good faith and has since raised a formal complaint with the third 
party responsible for investigating such matters. And I can see this has caused Mr P a great 
deal of inconvenience also. But as Im satisfied VFS wasnt responsible for the problem with 
the fuel contamination it wouldnt be fair of me to hold it responsible for bearing the cost of 
rectifying it. 
Customer service provided by the dealership
I can see that Mr P is very unhappy with the quality of customer service he received from the 
two manufacturers dealerships he dealt with. He has said he found them rude, obnoxious, 
and arrogant. Im not disputing Mr Ps version of events. And Im very sorry to hear about his 
negative experience. I know that Mr P would like this addressed and is concerned we will be 
quick to pass it over. 
This services remit is to deal with complaints between consumers and businesses that 
provide regulated financial services, as these businesses can be held responsible if 
something goes wrong such as a breach of contract, or if a misrepresentation occurs. The 
types of complaint we can investigate are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under DISP. DISP 2.3.1 says that: The 
Ombudsman can consider a complaint  if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying 
out one or more of the following activities: (1) regulated activities. Theres an extensive list 
of what constitutes regulated activities, which I wont repeat here. However, there are things I am generally not able to look at, such as the customer service a consumer receives from a 
retailer after an agreement has been taken out. This is because that activity doesnt fall into 
the category of regulated activity.
Mr P complains about the customer service he received with the two dealerships after he 
took out the agreement. While I do understand why Mr P would like us to look into it, this 
doesnt fall into the category of regulated activity. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman