DRN-2169036
The complaint
Mr E complains that Monzo Bank Ltd is holding him responsible for a loan and payments 
that he says he didnt make from his account.
What happened
Mr E says that his phone was taken from him in the early hours of 1 March 2020. He was 
accessing the Monzo app at this time. When he was later able to log into his account that 
day with a new device he saw that an overdraft had been applied to his account and a loan 
taken out. The credit available was used to make faster payments to third parties. Mr E 
reported this to Monzo and has also contacted the police.
Monzo said it would be holding Mr E responsible for these payments and the borrowing. It 
said that it didnt think that the payments could have been authorised by a third party based 
on the evidence it had. Although Mr E said he registered a new device there was no record 
of this and the device he used to report the fraud was the same one used to take the loan 
and overdraft and make the payments. Authorising the borrowing and payments to the new 
payees would have required the PIN and there was no clear way in which this had been 
discovered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had received a copy of 
an invoice Mr E said was for a new phone he bought on 1 March 2020 and a letter from his 
service provider saying that the old phone had been blacklisted that day. Mr E had also 
given screen shots showing that the old phone had been moving around during the period 
before Mr E reported it as lost and email correspondence he had with the police.
Mr E says he made a cashpoint withdrawal at 03:57 that day. The overdraft he disputes 
applying for of £1,000 was requested at 05:15 and drawn on at 05:27. The loan of £4,350 
was agreed at 05:31 and the majority of the funds transferred at 05:36. The overdraft limit 
was reduced to £900 at 13:05 later that day.
Monzo had shown that to take out the loan and overdraft a log in to the account had been 
required as well as the PIN. The PIN would also have been required to make the payments 
to new payees from the account. There had been no clear point at which the PIN had been 
discovered. Although Mr E had used a cashpoint it wasnt plausible that someone had then 
followed him around for an hour to steal his phone and start to use it. And only one device 
had been registered to the app  the same one that Mr E had been using before this 
happened. When Mr E had reported the disputed payments, a link had been sent to him to 
verify his account. She didnt conclude that the payments and borrowing werent authorised. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said that he had provided evidence including a screenshot of 
registering a new device to report the incident. He was at home while he had shown that his 
stolen phone was moving between addresses and different locations. He reported what 
happened to everyone he could think of. And his stepfather has also contacted the police in 
the location of the phone in the early hours of that day. Mr E asked how it could be the same 
phone when the devices had different IMEI numbers. He thought it was hard to believe that 
Monzo couldnt access this location information. He didnt know how the loan and overdraft 
could have been taken out, but he had blocked his phone manufacturers app and data store 
and wiped all the information. Attempts had been made to use the account for example to 
order a food delivery on 7 March 2020. His stepfather also provided an email confirming    
Mr E did everything he could to report this and cancel the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on 
overdraft and loan borrowing, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else making them. 
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of how the account was used?
- Did Mr E authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else to 
use the account?
Ive looked at the information Mr E provided. The significant geographical movements of the 
phone both within the City hed been in after he said it was taken and it seems then on a 
motorway and to different addresses doesnt assist really me with the issues. The invoice  
Mr E provides for the new phone is dated 1 March 2020 with delivery by 6 March 2020. The 
IMEI number is given at the bottom of the page. That IMEI number corresponds to the one 
that his mobile service provider says in a letter was also blacklisted on 1 March 2020. I cant 
resolve exactly why that would be, but I am unable as a result to put weight on what Mr E 
says about there being different IMEI numbers.
Monzo has shown that it captures a device fingerprint unique to each device registered to 
an account. The only access to the account was using the one device fingerprint. There was 
no record of a new device being registered. And the evidence shows that the same device 
was used to report the fraud and had been used to reset the app and account through a new 
magic link sent to Mr E to verify himself.
The movements disputed on the account are consistent with someone trying to take as 
much money from any borrowing limit available as quickly as possible. Further app log ins 
had been made during the period and the PIN would have been required. Even if as Mr E 
says the app was open when the phone was taken I dont think that there is a plausible 
explanation of how an unknown third party was able later to access the account and carry 
out the activity on the account. The investigator has referred to the overdraft limit being 
reduced through the app that afternoon which isnt the expected behaviour of a fraudster. 
And having looked at the account statement it does appear that Mr E transferred £50 into the 
account at 16:54 and there are normal payments made using his card and that he hasnt 
disputed at 16:56 and 17:10 some 12 hours after he says his phone was taken. Monzo noted 
the claim of fraud following contact from Mr E at 19:37 that day.  
So, having taken everything into account I find it most likely that the same device was used 
throughout, and that Mr E made these disputed transactions himself or allowed someone 
else to do so. I dont have a basis to require Monzo to take any further action and so Im 
afraid Mr E is fairly responsible for the related borrowing.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman