DRN-2935046
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Select and 
Premier packaged bank accounts - sometime prior to September 2001 and in September 
2008 respectively. Amongst other things, she says that the accounts were not suitable for 
her and she thought that taking out the accounts would improve her credit score / ability to 
get credit.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed this complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
accounts. Mrs D disagreed with this and therefore her complaint was referred for a final 
decision.
I note that Mrs D has mentioned that she was suffering from financial difficulties. I should 
highlight that in this decision, I am only looking at the sale of each account and whether 
these sales were carried out correctly. If Mrs D still believes that Lloyds did not handle her 
fairly in relation to her financial issues, she would need to refer this back to Lloyds in the first 
instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ds complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mrs D 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
I can see that Mrs Ds has mentioned that she was not given a fair choice in taking out these 
accounts, as she thought that it would improve my credit score and for my overdraft. So I 
have considered whether Mrs D was given a fair choice in taking out these accounts.
Firstly, I should say that due to the timescales involved it is difficult to say for certain exactly 
when the Select account was taken out. But it does seem that Mrs D did hold a fee-free 
account a number of years prior to when the Select account was first available. And it does 
look as if Mrs D had an overdraft facility and personal loan, prior to when the Select account 
was taken out. I also cant see any declined applications for credit around the time it was 
likely that the Select account was taken out. Given this, I cant see why Mrs D wouldve 
thought that she needed to upgrade to the Select account in order to improve her credit. I 
can see though that at the time the Select account was taken out, one of the major benefits 
was that it came with a £50 fee-free and interest-free overdraft facility and depending on 
exactly when the account was taken out, the other major benefit was breakdown cover. Mrs 
D had transactions for a car during the likely time period in which the account was taken out 
and does seem to have an overdraft facility. So I think that Mrs D chose to take out the 
account knowing that she did not have to, in order to get access to these benefits.
In relation to the Premier account, again I cant see any declined applications for credit 
around the time of the upgrade. So I dont think that it is likely that Mrs D thought her credit 
needed improving. 
Notes from the time of the sale suggest that Mrs D took out the Premier account in order to 
benefit from the £500 fee-free and interest-free overdraft facility. And other notes also show 
that the Premier account was recommended for home emergency cover - which was not 
available on any other account. I can also see that Mrs D did benefit from beneficial interest 
rates on her overdraft facility when used in excess of the £500 fee-free limit. So I think that 
Mrs D took out this account in order to obtain the benefits that it came with, rather than 
because she thought she had no choice. 
I note that Mrs D contends that she did not benefit from a preferential rate on her overdraft 
facility. But looking at the interest that she was charged prior to and then shortly after the 
upgrade to the Premier account, the monthly interest that she was charged seems to have 
been reduced considerably. So I think its likely that she was charged a lower rate of interest 
when her account was overdrawn by more than £500 (up to her limit) as a result of having 
the Premier account.
Both accounts were recommended to Mrs D. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was a 
broadly reasonable fit for her circumstances at the time. 
At the time the Select account was likely to have been taken out, it included breakdown 
cover and a fee-free and interest-free £50 overdraft buffer. 
At the time the Premier account was taken out, it cost £25 per month and provided a range 
of benefits, including worldwide family travel insurance - that included winter sports cover; 
comprehensive breakdown cover; mobile phone insurance for up to two handsets; card 
protection; Identity theft protection; and home emergency cover. It also provided non-
insurance benefits, such as a £500 interest-free overdraft facility, with reduced interest rates 
on balances overdrawn by more than £500, up to the agreed limit. 
In relation to the Select account, as said above, it does look as if Mrs D did have an 
overdraft facility and did drive at the time of the sale. So I think that this account wouldve 
been a reasonable fit for Mrs D, as it came with breakdown cover and overdraft benefits both 
of which it seems she was able to make use of. 
In relation to the Premier account, the account was recommended for the home emergency 
cover and it seems the additional overdraft benefit. As these were not available on a cheaper 
account, I think that this recommendation was again, a reasonable fit for Mrs D at the time. 
I understand that Mrs D did not travel abroad. But given that packaged bank accounts are 
rarely tailored to a specific individual, it is often the case that some of the benefits of the 
accounts are not able to be used. In this instance, I am satisfied that the Premier packaged 
account was a reasonable fit for Mrs D due to the other benefits it came with. So even 
though she did not travel and therefore had no need for the travel insurance, I dont think 
that Lloyds recommendation was unfair.
I accept that Mrs D may not have been told everything during the sales, about all of the 
benefits that the accounts came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mrs Ds 
circumstances from either sale, that makes me think she wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to them, had she been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts came with.
I note Mrs Ds comments that she could not afford these accounts. But based on her 
situation at the time of each sale, I dont think that it was unreasonable for these accounts to 
have been sold to her. Especially as she could have used, at the time, the benefits that they 
came with.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mrs D mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, she may now believe that her accounts 
were mis-sold. But based on what Mrs D has said, alongside all of the available evidence 
that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that her accounts were mis-sold in 
the first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman