DRN-3170303
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account while she was abroad and unfairly 
registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Ms M said HSBC registered a default against her after her account was closed without any 
notice. She was overseas at the time and only discovered the default when she returned. 
This left her without access to any funds.
Ms M said shed tried to pay the outstanding amount in December 2019 and again in 
January, February and March 2020. But she says the bank were short-staffed and couldnt 
deal with her problem. So she wants HSBC to remove the default from her credit file.
HSBC said itd written to Ms M in May 2019 asking her to get in touch urgently to discuss her 
account. As it hadnt heard from her the bank had written again in September 2019 to give 
notice the account would be closed in December 2019. 
A final demand letter had been sent out that month requesting repayment of the outstanding 
balance. HSBC said the amount had remained unpaid. So itd transferred the account to its 
repayment services team and a default was registered on the account. HSBC said the first 
time it could find any record of Ms M getting in touch was in May 2020 when Ms M had 
requested a payment plan to clear the outstanding balance on the account. 
When Ms M called about the payment plan HSBC could see shed had problems getting 
through and itd agreed to call her back. The bank apologised that hadnt happened and itd 
offered £100 compensation for the poor service. Ms M had now settled the outstanding 
balance. But HSBC said it wouldnt remove the default marker as itd been applied correctly. 
Ms M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator was sorry Ms M had needed to bring the 
complaint to our service. But she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it closed 
the account and registered a default.
Our investigator couldnt hold HSBC responsible if Ms M had been abroad when itd tried to 
contact her. And she felt Ms M shouldve been aware she needed to have money in the 
account to cover fees and charges. As itd been almost a year before Ms M had got in touch 
with HSBC our investigator didnt think the bank had acted unfairly in closing the account 
and recording a default. 
Our investigator felt HSBC were right in offering Ms M compensation for not receiving a call 
back when she was expecting one. But she wouldnt ask the bank to remove the default as it 
correctly reflected the accounts status to credit reference agencies.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms M has been experiencing. It mustve been very 
upsetting to discover her account had been closed and a marker placed on her credit file. So 
Ive looked very carefully at everything Ms M and HSBC have said to see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
Ms M had an account with HSBC that had an overdraft facility. Unfortunately while Ms M 
was abroad the fees and charges caused the account to exceed the overdraft limit. And I 
can see HSBC wrote to Ms M in May 2019 as it urgently needed to speak to her.
HSBC wasnt able to get hold of Ms M and it wrote again in September to give Ms M two 
months notice that it intended to close her account. The letter stated that any outstanding 
balance must be repaid in full. And if that didnt happen a default would be registered with 
credit reference agencies. 
I appreciate Ms M was overseas when HSBC tried to get in touch. And she didnt see any of 
the banks letters until she returned home. But I cant really hold HSBC responsible for that. 
The bank tried to contact her to discuss the situation. And its Ms Ms responsibility to keep 
her bank informed of any change in her contact details and to monitor her account to make 
sure everything is in order.
As Ms M had an account with an overdraft facility I think its reasonable to assume she was 
aware that would mean any use of the overdraft would generate fees and charges and this 
would need to be checked and dealt with as necessary. 
Ms M is adamant she tried to contact HSBC in December 2019 and again at the beginning of 
2020. And she says she was told she couldnt be put through to the right person as the bank 
was short of staff due to the pandemic. HSBC responded that its contact centres were 
unaffected at that time and it couldnt find any record of Ms M contacting the bank until May 
2020.
Ive not seen anything in the banks records to show Ms M contacted the bank about her 
account or overdraft until a year after the initial letter. In any event letter HSBCs letter of 
September 2019 stated her account would be closed on 3 December and any outstanding 
balance at that point would be passed to the banks repayment services team. Following that 
a default would be registered with credit reference agencies. 
I know Ms M will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I cant 
really say HSBC has done anything wrong in registering a default on Ms Ms credit record 
when the account balance remained outstanding at the closure date.
HSBC has offered Ms M £100 for not returning her call in May 2020 when she wanted to 
discuss the situation. And I can see the bank has updated the repayment date to May 2020 
when Ms M was first in contact. And I think thats the right thing to do in the circumstances. 
But Im afraid I cant ask HSBC to remove the marker from Ms Ms credit file. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest HSBC has made any errors in reporting adverse credit information to the 
credit reference agencies. It has a responsibility to accurately reflect the payment history of 
Ms Ms account. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman