DRN-3642629
The complaint
This complaint is about a short-term bridging loan Mrs and Mr S hold that is now owned by 
Together Personal Finance Limited (TPFL). Theyre unhappy with how TPFL has dealt with 
them, and handled attempts to sell their property in order to repay the loan balance.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr S and TPFL. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
When TPFL acquired the account from the original lender, which Ill call A, it did so as part 
of a portfolio purchase of a tranche of loans. TPFL didnt individually underwrite 
Mrs and Mrs S loan or assess it specifically for risk before acquiring it on the same terms 
that had been agreed between Mrs and Mr S and A. I also note that when Mrs and Mr S 
entered into this loan, they had the benefit of independent legal advice from a solicitor who 
certified that the terms and implications of the contract had been explained to them.
My starting point here is that ever since the due date for repayment, which was 
in September 2020, passed without the loan balance being repaid, Mrs and Mr S have been 
in breach of their contract with TPFL. The contract allows TPFL to add additional charges 
and interest until such time as the contract breach is repaired; that is, until Mrs and Mr S pay 
what they owe in full. It can consider accepting a short settlement, but it isnt in any way 
obliged to. Its also not just permitted, but required, to report the status of the loan on 
Mrs and Mr S respective credit files.
The contract ultimately allows TPFL to start legal action to enforce its security by seeking 
possession of the mortgaged property. TPFL has indicated it is prepared to do that if the 
loan isnt repaid in full within what it considers a reasonable period, but has voluntarily 
placed action on hold whilst we look at the complaint. Overall, I dont think TPFLs actions in 
that regard are unfair or unreasonable. For context, its worth observing that almost two 
years have now passed since the term expired and the loan fell due for repayment.
In my view, TPFL has shown Mrs and Mr S considerable forbearance, and been reasonably 
patient in its dealing with them. It allowed them an informal extension of time to repay, and 
allowed them to engage in its assisted voluntary sale (AVS) process to dispose of the 
mortgaged property. Unfortunately, that ended because Mrs and Mr S also breached the 
terms of the AVS agreement by increasing the sale price of the property. However, much 
they might feel the property is worth a certain amount, their circumstances, and the terms of 
the AVS agreement, dont allow then to try and dictate the selling price as theyve sought to 
do.
Regarding contact between the parties, TPFLs primary contact channel was Mr S mobile 
phone number. It wouldnt have been aware that Mr S mobile service had been disrupted by 
his provider. I know he feels aggrieved that it didnt try other means of contacting him, but 
Im not persuaded that changed anything. The reality, however unwelcome or unpalatable 
they might find it, is that Mrs and Mr S current position is not down to any act or omission, or 
any unfair treatment, on TPFLs part. 
Going forward, its for TPFL and Mrs and Mr S to have a constructive dialogue about the 
future of the debt; its not for this service to say how that dialogue should take place or in any 
way pre-empt the outcome. But that dialogue needs to happen and I very much hope it takes 
place without any recrimination over what has gone before. All Id add is a reminder that 
TPFLs duty to treats its customers fairly is ongoing, as is its right to take steps, including 
possession action if judged necessary, to be paid what it is owed. 
Mrs and Mr S dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
TPFL will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr S right to take legal action against TPFL over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman