DRN-1640750
Complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc havent refunded him for a payment made from his 
current account.
Background
In December 2019 Mr L went into a branch of Santander to pay a bill for £153.40. He says 
he gave the cashier the account and sort code information and was then asked to confirm 
the amount of the payment. He did this, but immediately after leaving the branch, realised 
the account number had been entered wrongly. 
Mr L went back into the branch and says he was told the money would be repaid to him the 
same day. But this then didnt happen, and he was then told Santander would try and get the 
money back, but itd take up to 20 days, and there was no guarantee it would be repaid. Mr L 
wasnt happy about the information given, and that he wasnt given a refund, so he 
complained.
Santander replied to the complaint in January 2020. They said when a customer provides 
details of a payment, its their responsibility to check the payment details are correct. They 
also said they tried to reclaim the funds from the account the money was sent to, but this 
was unsuccessful. But, because theyd given him the wrong information about whether hed 
get the money back or not, they said theyd pay him £75 for this.
Unhappy with this Mr L asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and felt 
because Santander had made the original error with typing in the relevant information, they 
should refund the payment  and still pay the £75 compensation.
Santander didnt agree. They said that while they accept they made an error originally, Mr L 
had all the details of the payment displayed to them on a screen, and was asked to confirm 
all details were correct. When Mr L pressed the confirm button, he took responsibility for the 
payment at that point, so they wouldnt agree to refund the money.
Because Santander didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator this complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Santander have said that because Mr L confirmed the details on the keypad, it became his 
responsibility, not the cashiers, if any of the details were entered wrongly.
Mr L has been clear and consistent in his dealings with Santander and us that he gave a slip 
with the account number and sort code over to the cashier. And Im satisfied that these were 
the correct details as theres been no suggestion otherwise. Mr Ls said he was told to check 
the amount and nothing else, so he confirmed the details on the key pad.Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Ls account of what happened isnt accurate. Hes said 
when he left the branch hes looked at the paperwork, realised the account details were 
entered wrongly, and went back to the branch. That sounds plausible to me and fits in with 
his explanation of the cashier keeping the paperwork while the transaction was completed. 
So, I think its likely if hed been told to check the details at the point of completing the 
transaction on the key pad he would have asked for the paperwork back. So Im satisfied he 
was only asked to check the amount  rather than any of the account details.
Given that, its unclear to me why Santander think Mr L should have known the details were 
incorrect. Hes given the slip to the cashier  and I think its not unreasonable for him to have 
expected the cashier to enter the details correctly. I also think its not unreasonable for Mr L 
to have followed what he was asked by the cashier  to just check the amount.
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied Santander didnt follow their established 
process, so need to refund Mr L the full amount lost.
Ive also considered that Santander gave Mr L incorrect information about any likely refund 
of the money  after hed realised it went to the wrong account. I think its unfortunate that 
Santander gave Mr L incorrect information, but I can see they then gave him the correct 
information when he called up shortly afterwards. Because of that, I think the £75 
compensation offered for this is reasonable. 
My decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to:
Refund Mr L £153.40
Pay Mr L 8% simple interest from the date of the payment, to the date of the refund
Pay compensation of £75
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one. 
If Santander have already paid £75 in compensation, they can deduct this from the final 
amount refunded to Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman