DRN-2040078
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about two credit card PPI policies. The bank cant confirm when the PPI 
was taken out. It assumes it was in 1994 when Mr B opened a mastercard and a visa card, 
although it no longer has records showing PPI being charged on the accounts before 2000. 
Mr B recalls the sale took place in one of its branches and, with the banks agreement, Im 
reviewing it on that basis. The cover gave Mr B protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, I have reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Lloyds cant confirm the cost of the PPI but knows it was between 59p and 79p per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. So I have used the higher price for my analysis.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr B had to agree to take it out. There 
isnt much information to go on in this case, because everything happened so long ago. And 
I dont think its surprising or unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mr Bs application form any 
more. 
From what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards between 1994 and 2000, I 
think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Mr B aware he had a choice about PPI. The sample of 
the application form hes likely to have completed shows he would have needed to tick a box 
to take out PPI. And the option to decline the cover was set out with equal prominence.
Overall, without stronger evidence showing the bank didnt make clear it was optional, I cant 
fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr B without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to 
take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B. This means Lloyds had to make sure it 
was right for him. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr B cant recall if he was entitled to sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any work benefits and for up to 12 months for all successful accident and 
sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. So, overall, I think the 
PPI wouldve been useful to Mr B if he was sick or lost his job.
Mr B says he didnt understand what the PPI was, and I agree its possible the information 
Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. However, based on the 
policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And, given what we know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies 
over these years, the policy wouldve been competitively priced, and it was apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman