DRN-3631984
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc havent given adequate redress for the
loss of a treasured item.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr D and Mrs D had a fire at their home. They made a buildings and
contents insurance claim against their insurance provider, AXA.
Mr D and Mrs D said that AXA had handled their claim well. But an art table that belonged to
their daughter, while it survived the fire, was taken away by AXA despite reassurances being
made that it wouldnt be moved and kept by them.
They said the art table held treasured memories of their daughter, including photographs
and artwork. The art table had been made to their daughters own specifications, including
being portable so it could be used by her for her art shows. Since her death It was a
constant memory of her and was regularly used when commemorating her life. They
complained to AXA.
AXA agreed that something had gone wrong and the loss of the art table had caused
distress to Mr D and Mrs D. They offered £1,500 to compensate them for this.
Mr D and Mrs D werent happy with AXAs response. While they accept, they cant get their
daughters art table back, they asked for an art table in the image of the one that had been
taken from them. They provided quotes for a replica art table to be made, with an average
cost of around £9,000.They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said AXA hadnt done enough. AXA offered to pay £6,000 towards the new
art table and £3,500 to compensate Mr D and Mrs D for the distress caused. Our investigator
said this was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in July 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The dispute between Mr D, Mrs D and AXA isnt about the settlement of the claim. Theres
no dispute about the validity of the claim itself. Its about an item that survived the fire only for
it to be taken away.
Im grateful to Mr D and Mrs D for being so open about the impact of what has happened.
This must have been a very distressing time for them. Not only experiencing the trauma of a
house fire but also the loss of an item that had belonged to and was a memory of their
daughter. AXA has accepted that they got things wrong. So, in reaching my decision I need
to decide whether the redress theyve offered is sufficient to put things right.
For the sake of clarity; this service doesnt punish insurers, thats not our role. Rather, we
must put a consumer in the position they otherwise would have been (but for any error made
by the other party). We will also award compensation for any distress and inconvenience
caused by the failure.
It isnt possible to put Mr D and Mrs D back into the position they were before the fire, as the
art table that was their daughters is no longer there. But I do think that AXA should create as
near that position as is possible. And I think theyve accepted that this wasnt simply a case
of replacing an everyday table.
Mr D and Mrs D have taken time to get quotes for an art table with precise specifications to
be made to look and feel like their daughters unique art table. And the quotes are for
around £9,000.
In respect of compensation, this will always be difficult where a sentimental item is involved.
What I have focused on here is that AXA arent able to produce a replica art table as they
dont have carpenters for bespoke work. But said £6,000 was a fair and reasonable
indemnity offer for a table that was around 20 years old and had suffered wear and tear.
But the art table wasnt lost as a cause of the fire but because AXA had it taken away. And
Im persuaded by Mr D and Mrs Ds testimony that they had made it quite clear that the art
table wasnt to be touched. I can also see that precious photographs and art work were left
outside when the glass top from the table was removed. And that these suffered irreparable
damage as a result.
AXA has offered to settle the claim by cash and pay £6,000 towards the cost of the new art
table. But to compensate Mr D and Mrs D I think they need to provide a settlement that will
enable Mr D and Mrs D to get another art table that is a replica of their daughters. As AXA
isnt offering to make the bespoke art table Ive considered whether the quotes provided by
Mr D and Mrs D are fair and reasonable.
AXA havent show how theyve made the determination of £6,000. But Mr D and Mrs D have
provided precise specifications for the art table and detailed the various extras that their
daughter had arranged when the table was made  portable legs, internal trays and leather
inset. The glass top was added by Mr D and Mrs D later to protect the photos and art work. I
can see theyve provided two quotes for similar amounts for the replica table to be made. I
think the quotes are detailed and reasonable so I would expect AXA to agree to the lowest of
these - £9,060.
Its understandable that Mr D and Mrs D have suffered considerable distress and
inconvenience because of what has happened. The fire happened in November 2018, and
Mr D and Mrs D I think expressed the importance of the art table to them and the upset that
this has caused. I know their daughters art table can never be restored to them but I hope
the replica art table provides some measure of comfort. I agree with our investigator that
AXA should also pay Mr D and Mrs D £3,500 for the distress and inconvenience theyve
suffered.Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted the findings in the provisional decision. But Mr D and Mrs D made 
representation about the impact of the pandemic on the quotes theyd previously submitted. 
They said the overhead and material costs had increased the quote for the replica desk to 
£9,804. And asked if the provisional amount of £9,060 could be increased to this amount.
AXA agreed to Mr D and Mrs Ds revised quote.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask AXA Insurance UK Plc
pay a cash settlement of £9.804 for the art table; and
pay Mr D and Mrs D £3,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman