DRN-3838512
The complaint
Miss Ms unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AICL) set up a new car 
insurance policy for her.
All references in this decision to AICL include its appointed agents.
What happened
In June 2022 Miss M contacted AICL to change the car that was insured on her policy up 
until that time. AICL was ready to set up a new policy to reflect the change but issues with 
collecting the direct debit for the premium meant it didnt start as planned. The new policy 
wasnt set up until around five weeks after she first contacted AICL about the change of car.
Miss M complained to AICL about the service it had provided her with. AICL agreed that its 
service had been poor and so offered her £50 as compensation.
Unhappy with AICLs response, Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter and recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They asked AICL to 
pay Miss M an additional £150, making a total of £200 in compensation taking account of the 
impact of its errors on her. 
AICL didnt agree with the investigators findings. It accepted that there had been failings on 
its part but still thought its offer was a fair reflection of its actions. As such, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that AICLs fallen short of the standards Miss M reasonably expected to 
receive regarding her policy. The issue for me to consider is whether £50 represents fair 
compensation for the impact of its actions on Miss M. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and to require AICL to pay a further 
£150, so £200 in total. Ill explain why.
From the information thats been made available, I can see that AICL wasnt directly 
responsible for the initial non-collection of the relevant direct debit. But it still made 
numerous errors over several weeks which Im satisfied caused Miss M a considerable 
amount of frustration and upset. Im satisfied AICL was responsible for those subsequent 
errors.  
These errors include, but arent limited to:
Not being clearly told multiple direct debits would be collected from her account 
within a matter of days, causing Miss M worry about her finances.
Miss M being led to believe  for example via AICLs app  she had an outstanding 
debt when that wasnt the case.
AICL incorrectly informing Miss M it would be cancelling the policy, just after being 
told it had finally been set up and several weeks after shed first tried to arrange it.
Ive thought very carefully about whether AICLs offer represents fair compensation for 
Miss M given the difficulties she experienced through no fault of her own. It may be that one 
of the errors AICL made along her journey in isolation warranted a lower level of 
compensation. But Im satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the impact of the service 
Miss M received overall justifies a higher award. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider that £50 as offered by AICL adequately reflects the 
frustration and upset Miss Ms been caused throughout the process of changing her policy. I 
think AICL largely exacerbated what was already a difficult situation for Miss M given the 
initial issue with the direct debits and its effects. I consider that AICLs actions resulted in 
unnecessary worry, inconvenience, and administrative work for Miss M when shed 
reasonably expected the handling of her policy would be dealt with in a professional and 
timely manner. Instead, the information shows she felt repeatedly let down by AICL.
Putting things right
I require AICL to pay Miss M £200 in total (thats including the £50 I gather its already paid 
her) as compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience its actions have caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right for Miss M as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman