DRN-3124748
The complaint
Ms C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited said there was a shortfall to be repaid when 
her loan term ended  and that it took one payment too many for her loan.
What happened
In 2005, Ms C took out a secured loan with another lender over a term of 15 years. In 2015, 
Ms C asked that lender to move her payment date. That meant one payment wasnt made, 
but Ms C said the payment was made up over the next few months. The loan was later 
transferred to Shawbrook.
Ms C made all the payments that were due to the loan. But Shawbrook said there was a 
balance of over £1,400 remaining. Ms C considers that she made a payment in August 
2020 but that was after her loan had ended in July and it should be refunded. And 
Shawbrook made a mistake in calculating how much she owed.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that the balance was 
because the previous lender hadnt amended Ms Cs payments correctly. But Shawbrook 
has now written that amount off. The investigator said that Shawbrook should pay Ms C
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this matter and in 
particular the time taken to resolve it. But he thought the August payment was correctly 
due and should therefore be refunded.
Shawbrook accepted what the investigator said. Ms C did not. She said that Shawbrook 
had incorrectly recorded incorrect information on her credit file. Shawbrook agreed to 
remove that. But Ms C then said she wanted the August 2020 payment refunded. She said 
that she only made that payment because she understood that Shawbrook was 
investigating why her loan hadnt ended in July 2020.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold this complaint. My 
provisional findings (which form part of this decision) were:
Ms C took out the loan on 24 April 2005 over a term of 15 years or 180 months. But the first
loan payment wasnt made until 10 August 2005. That means, on the face of it, Ms C is 
correct that the last payment would be in July 2020  providing all payments had been made 
in full and on time.
The records we have show that Ms C missed her payment in February 2015. The lender 
agreed that she could increase her payments over the next four months to make up the 
missed payment. Ms C made those payments in full and on time  and she had no reason 
to believe that she was not up to date on her mortgage. So although the payment Ms C 
made in July 2020 was only her 179th it was reasonable for her to understand that she 
had made up the missed payment in full.
The difficulty here is that simply dividing the missed payment into four usually wouldnt be 
sufficient to clear the missed payment in full. The lender would apply interest to the missed 
payment until it was fully repaid. So although Ms C has made up the amount of the February 
2015 payment, she would not have paid the interest that accrued on that amount.
Shawbrooks explanation for the shortfall that remained at the end of term was that a 
previous lender hadnt adjusted Ms Cs payments following a change in interest rates. It 
may be that is the reason for the shortfall  or it may be a combination of those things. But 
in either case the shortfall wasnt due to any mistake by Ms C.
What has happened here is what we call mortgage underfunding. That is where a consumer 
has paid less to their mortgage than they should have due to an error by the lender. Where 
a business has made an error, we look for the consumer to be put back in the position they 
would have been in had the mistake not occurred.
In this case, if the lender hadnt made the mistake(s) it did I am satisfied that Ms C would 
have made all of the payments in full or on time (or would have paid the correct amount to 
catch up following the missed payment in February 2015). So, Ms C would have repaid her 
mortgage in July 2020. It follows that she should have the August 2020 payment refunded 
with interest.
I am satisfied, however, that the shortfall was due  so Ms C has effectively made a 
saving by not paying this amount. It would not be fair for Shawbrook to recoup that 
money at this stage as it is likely to have been swallowed up by day to day expenditure.
Usually, because of the savings, I wouldnt make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience a consumer suffered  unless the award was more than the savings 
theyd made. So I am not intending to do so in this case. Shawbrook should also make at 
Ms Cs credit file shows the loan being settled in full, with no shortfall in July 2020.
I proposed that Shawbrook should:
Pay Ms C £244.40  that is the August payment of £444.40 less the £200 already paid.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from 16 August 2020 until date 
of settlement.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the £200 from 16 August 2020 until the date the 
£200 was paid to Ms C.
Make sure Ms Cs credit file shows the loan being repaid in full (not partially) in July 
2020.
Ms C responded to make a number of points, including:
She raised the £444.40 overpayment with Shawbrook in August 2020 on several 
occasions, but it chose to ignore it.
She understood that the investigator had recommended the return of the August 2020 
payment and a further £200 compensation. She would not have agreed £200.
She felt I should honour the award of £200 because of the way that Shawbrook dealt 
with her.
Shawbrook said it was concerned that Ms C originally accepted the investigators view, the 
case was closed and the redress paid in May 2021. It said we told it in July 2021that the 
case would be reopened. Shawbrook considers that we should take that into account.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigators view was only that Shawbrook should pay Ms C £200. She understood 
that was in addition to a refund of the £444.40. So the offer she accepted was not as she 
expected. Based on that the investigator reopened the case and it was referred to an 
ombudsman to decide. That misunderstanding does not affect my decision about what is fair 
and reasonable.
I carry out an independent and impartial review to decide what in my opinion is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions that I did in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied that Ms C underpaid her mortgage because of mistakes by her lenders. It would 
not be fair for her to make up the shortfall that was left  and she would not have had to 
make a payment in August 2020 if those mistakes hadnt occurred. But equally, I have to 
take into account that she has benefitted from those mistakes. If they had not happened, 
she would have had to pay more overall towards her loan that she did. So she has made 
savings.
I accept what Ms C has told us about the distress and inconvenience she suffered because 
of what happened and how Shawbrook treated her. I would usually make an award for that. 
But in this case, the savings she made because of the mistakes were more than I would 
have awarded as compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Plc 
Pay Ms C £244.40  that is the August payment of £444.40 less the £200 already paid.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from 16 August 2020 until date 
of settlement.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the £200 from 16 August 2020 until the date the 
£200 was paid to Ms C.
Make sure Ms Cs credit file shows the loan being repaid in full (not partially) in July 
2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman