DRN-1325948
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly made out two cheques it issued 
for him from his personal bank account.
What happened
Mr A holds an account with Nationwide. On around 25 April 2019 he visited a branch to ask 
it to issue two cheques for him from his personal account, which he needed to send to two 
companies he does business with. 
Mr A said he gave the bank teller a piece of paper containing the names of the businesses 
and the references numbers to be included on the cheques. Nationwide said it used the 
information Mr A had written on this piece of paper to write out the cheques. And it said Mr A 
checked and signed a withdrawal form to confirm all the information it had input onto the 
cheques was correct.
After Mr A left the branch he sent the cheques off to the payees immediately. But he retained 
a photocopy and, on looking at this, noticed that the payee information had been recorded 
incorrectly. Specifically, the cheques that Nationwide issued contained only the reference 
numbers. And Mr A said these errors prevented the payees from presenting the cheques.  
So, on 29 April 2019, Mr A returned to his branch to ask it to cancel the cheques it had 
issued. He wanted new cheques issuing but, as he had posted these to the payees, he no 
longer had the original cheques. Mr A was told Nationwide would confirm the cheques hadnt 
been cashed for payment and follow its stop process. 
Mr A was unhappy with what had happened and he said his relationship with the payees had 
irretrievably broken down as a result of them not being able to present the cheques. So he 
complained to Nationwide. After it investigated it rejected Mr As complaint. It said it had 
drawn up the cheques in line with the information Mr A had provided. And it said he signed 
to say he was happy with the details that it had input. It also stated it had correctly followed 
its policy for stopping and replacing cheques. So, it didnt think it had made an error. It also 
didnt think there were any shortfalls in the service Mr A had received in branch. 
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint Mr A referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr A and Nationwide had provided but wasnt 
persuaded that Nationwide had made an error or acted unfairly. So they didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. But Mr A disagreed with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Nationwide made a mistake, or treated Mr A unfairly in 
drawing up the cheques he asked it to issue from his personal account, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and Nationwide have 
said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr A and Nationwide, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think 
is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it. Its because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The crux of this complaint concerns the payee information that was input on the cheques Mr 
A asked Nationwide to draw up on his behalf. Mr A said the information was input incorrectly 
by Nationwide. But Nationwide says it used the information Mr A provided. Given the 
difference in accounts Ive thought carefully about how this error most likely came to take 
place.
Mr A told our service that when he asked the bank teller to make up the cheque he gave 
them a piece of paper on which he had written the payees details. He said the information 
he had written on that document was correct. 
Mr A said the bank teller he dealt with was a trainee member of staff. This staff member 
remembered dealing with Mr A and provided an account about what happened when Mr A 
attended the branch to ask it to issue the two cheques.
In their account the trainee said Mr A handed them a piece of paper containing information 
about the payees. They said they asked Mr A to confirm that the details written on the piece 
of paper were correct because they recalled a previous transaction they had assisted Mr A 
with where he had made a mistake. They stated on that previous occasion Mr A had 
requested a withdrawal of around £3 from his account but had wanted around £300. And 
they said this prompted them to check. 
The staff member in question also said, due to their trainee status, a branch manager 
checked what they had written on the cheque. Nationwide said the branch manager queried 
the name and account number with the trainee who confirmed he had input what Mr A had 
written on the piece of paper he gave them. 
I think the bank tellers recollection here is clear and consistent. Theyre able to recall this 
and the previous transaction in which they assisted Mr A with a cash withdrawal in detail. 
While Ive taken into account what Mr A says about what happened Im more persuaded by 
the account Nationwide has given here. This means that I believe Nationwide checked with 
Mr A on two occasions that the information he had provided it with was correct. And, having 
been told by Mr A that the details were correct, it input that information onto the cheques it 
issued him. In those circumstances I cant fairly find Nationwide made an error.
Mr A was asked to sign the cheques and a withdrawal form before he took the cheques 
away and left the branch. I can see that his signature on the cheque withdrawal form 
matches the signature on the cheque cancellation form.
Im satisfied that, in asking Mr A to sign the cheques and withdrawal form, Nationwide gave 
him an opportunity to check the information that had been input onto the cheques. And I 
understand Mr A didnt raise any concerns at this stage. This process placed the onus on Mr A to check and correct any incorrect information 
Nationwide may have input. And I think it demonstrates that Nationwide did what it was 
required to do to ensure that the information it had input was correct. 
Im persuaded that when Mr A left Nationwide with his cheques he was unaware that the 
payee information was wrong. I say this because I dont believe he would have attempted to 
present incorrect cheques to the business he wanted to pay. And I also think, its more likely 
that not, that if hed noticed the errors while in branch he would have brought them to the 
attention of Nationwide. However, as Mr A failed to notice the errors on the cheque I cant 
fairly find that Nationwide should have noticed them  particularly when Im satisfied it input 
the information he provided.
Mr A said his business relationship with the payees of his cheques has irretrievably broken 
down as a result of what happened. But, while I have sympathy with Mr A about that, I cant 
fairly conclude that this was caused by Nationwide. I say this because, overall, Im satisfied 
Nationwide followed the instructions Mr A gave it. Im persuaded it wrote what Mr A had 
written on the piece of paper he presented in branch. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an 
error here. 
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr A 
any further with this.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman