DRN-4053449
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly applied 
charges on the return of a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with 
MBFS. She would like the charges refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mrs R isnt happy with the charges applied by MBFS when she returned 
her car. The inspection on collection noted £590 of damage including a missing 
spare key which I understand Mrs R doesnt dispute, and refurbishment needed to 
the alloy wheels. As Mrs R now seems to accept the charge for the wheels I wont go 
into that in any detail other than to note that ,having seen the inspection information, I 
agree with our investigators view that the charge was reasonable as the damage 
breached MBFS guidelines.
The second inspection noted a chip to the front windscreen. I appreciate Mrs R isnt 
happy this damage wasnt picked up at the first inspection which she feels was 
thorough enough that it should have done so. Its not unusual for a further detailed 
inspection to take place once a car has been collected. MBFS has explained that the 
second inspection was carried out as heavy rain  evidenced in the video of the 
inspection it supplied  - prevented a full inspection on collection. The inspection form 
given to Mrs R noted a further inspection was required so I think Mrs R would have 
been aware the car was going to be further inspected. 
I have carefully looked at the evidence from both inspections. The chipped 
windscreen is clearly visible in the photos from the second inspection. Its less clear 
from the photos and video evidence from the first inspection due to the heavy rain. 
However there does seem to be a small mark visible where the  chip was later 
identified. On balance I think its more likely than not that the damage was present at 
the first inspection but less obvious due to the rain. On this basis I think the charge 
MBFS has applied is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman