DRN-4052134
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined her private medical 
insurance claim and cancelled her policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Miss M took out a private medical insurance policy through Aviva. The 
policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis. 
In March 2022, Miss M made an online claim to Aviva to obtain authorisation to see a 
consultant in relation to painful periods. Miss M told Aviva the symptoms had started in 
January 2022 and that she hadnt suffered from any gynaecological problems previously. 
The claim was accepted.
Later in 2022, Aviva says her claim came up as part of a routine audit. It requested 
additional information about her previous medical history. As part of this information, Aviva 
received a letter relating to a consultation Miss M had in January 2021. In this letter it 
referred to Miss M suffering from painful periods. Based on this information, Aviva declined 
the claim as it said that the symptoms were in existence prior to her claim in early 2022. It 
also said that, as Miss M had made a false statement about her previous medical history, it 
would cancel her policy from March 2022 and Miss M would be required to pay for all the 
treatment she had received. 
Unhappy with this, Miss M made a complaint to Aviva and brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but found that it was fair and reasonable for 
Aviva to rely on the medical information it had been provided to decline her claim and cancel 
the cover. Miss M disagreed with this outcome. She said that the comments on the letter 
from January 2021 related to historical symptoms she had suffered in 2016, not at the time 
of the consultation. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Miss Ms policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis. The policy states the following:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if 
you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover that condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the policy.
I think the above makes it clear that Aviva wont cover any medical conditions, which a 
policyholder has experienced symptoms of in the five years before the policy began. In this 
case, the relevant moratorium period began in December 2021. 
The policy also includes a section relating to the cancellation of the policy  Section 7  and 
within this section it states:
7. Cancelling the policy
If a claim made by, or on behalf of, the policyholder or a member is in any way 
fraudulent or fraudulently exaggerated or supported by a false statement or 
fraudulent evidence, we may:
refuse to pay the claim, and
recover any sums paid by us in respect of the claim.
In addition:
where the claim is made by, or on behalf of, the policyholder, we may cancel the 
policy back to the date of the fraudulent act and keep all premiums. This will end 
the cover of the policyholder and all members listed on the policy schedule
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Aviva said that when Miss M made contact in March 2022, she indicated that the symptoms 
had started in January 2022. Aviva asked Miss M if she had suffered from gynaecological 
problems previously  Miss M said she hadnt. She also provided a GP form with details of 
the consultations she had with her GP  these show the last time she had consulted the GP 
about period pain had been in 2016. On this basis, Aviva agreed the claim. 
Towards the end of 2022, during a routine audit, Aviva reviewed the claim and asked for 
additional medical information. Within this was a consultants letter, dated January 2021, 
which referred to Miss M suffering from dysmenorrhea (painful periods). As this consultation took place within the five years prior to the policy being taken out, Aviva said her symptoms 
of painful periods were pre-existing and therefore the claim being made wasnt covered.
Having looked at this letter I can see that the consultant refers to Miss Ms periods being 
regular with some dysmenorrhea during the first couple of days. Based on what has been 
written, I think it is reasonable to consider that Miss M was suffering from these symptoms in 
January 2021. As this was less than a year before the insurance policy was taken out, it 
follows that these symptoms occurred within the five years prior to the policy inception. And 
the policy terms and conditions are clear that medical conditions where symptoms are 
suffered in the five years prior to taking the policy are not covered. Im satisfied that Avivas 
decision to decline the claim is fair and reasonable. 
Miss M has stated that she believes the letter from the consultant refers to her previous 
history of painful periods in 2016, which is outside the moratorium period of the policy, and 
not any current symptoms. Ive noted her comments and considered this point carefully. The 
letter refers to Miss Ms periods being regular with some dysmenorrhea  Im of the opinion 
that this has been written in the present tense. I therefore dont think it is unreasonable for 
Aviva to consider that the consultant was referring to current symptoms at the point the letter 
was written. 
Im aware that Miss M feels that Aviva has ignored the medical evidence supplied by her GP 
which she says shows she hadnt seen her GP for painful periods since 2016. Ive looked at 
the information sent to Aviva, and I note that there doesnt appear to be any consultation 
with her GP regarding painful periods after 2016 until the time of the claim. But the policy 
states it wont provide cover if there have been symptoms of the condition in the last five 
years, regardless of whether she had seen her GP or not. Based on what is written on the 
letter from January 2021, such symptoms were present at that time - this is within the five-
year period prior to the policy inception. So, this doesnt change my outcome.
Miss M is also unhappy that Aviva agreed to cover the claim initially and it wasnt until nearly 
six months later that the claim decision was overturned, cover was refused, and the policy 
was cancelled. Miss M has incurred treatment which she is now required to fund herself - 
she doesnt think this is fair. Aviva has said that the claim was subject to a routine audit, and 
it was only when it requested further medical evidence that the consultants letter was 
provided. I dont think it is unreasonable for Aviva to conduct audits on claims periodically. 
And based on the new information made available, which appears to contradict what was 
provided previously, Im satisfied that Aviva has acted in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions when cancelling the cover and requesting the refund. I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman