DRN-4249935
Complaint
Mr G has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr G with a first loan for £1,000.00 in January 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £93.81. In February 2022, Mr G was provided 
with a second loan for £1,000.00. This loan had a 24-month term with 24 monthly 
repayments of £75.96. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Likely Loans had 
told us. And he thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything and didnt recommend Mr Gs 
complaint be upheld. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr G with two loans for £1,000.00 in January 2022 and December 
2022. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 and 24 monthly instalments respectively. 
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Gs applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income, which was verified by recent payslips and some information on his expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. And all of this 
information showed Mr G could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr G has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided us with an indication of what it 
saw about Mr Gs debts at the time of his applications. Crucially, Mr Gs debt total at the time 
of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be 
relatively well managed. For example there were no recent arrears, defaults or county court 
judgments recorded against him.
Ive also kept in mind that Likely Loans provided a second loan to Mr G and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 2 wasnt for a larger 
amount than loan 1. And the monthly payments for loan 2 were lower as well. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr G might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on his finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Mr G couldnt have afforded the 
loans either. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, 
Im satisfied that Likely Loans was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr G. I say this while 
especially mindful that we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the 
loans were obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to  Mr G - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Gs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman