DRN-3953639
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Barclays Partner Finance, who are a trading name of Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited.
 
Mr B is complaining that Barclays Partner Finance will not tell him why they declined his 
application for finance to purchase a mobile phone. 
For the purposes of this decision I have referred to Clydesdale throughout as they are 
accountable for the actions of Barclays Partner Finance. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr B applied online for finance to purchase a new mobile phone. He was 
looking to borrow £1,309 over 24 months. The monthly payments were £54.54. 
After submitting the application online, Mr B received an email confirming the application had 
been declined as it did not meet Clydesdales current lending criteria. The email said that the 
decision was based on a combination of reasons including the checks Clydesdale has in 
place as a responsible lender. The email also explained that information Mr B had provided 
in the application was taken into account, together with any additional information about him 
obtained from credit reference agencies and a fraud prevention service.
Clydesdale let Mr B know if he wanted to find out what information the credit reference 
agencies held about him, he should contact them directly. Mr B did this, but didnt find 
anything wrong with his credit file and the credit reference agencies told Mr B he should go 
back to Clydesdale to find out why the lending wasnt approved. 
Mr B returned to Clydesdale who continued to explain the reasons were related to their 
internal lending criteria which they were unable to share. And when responding to Mr Bs 
complaint, Clydesdale confirmed again that the lending had not been approved because it 
did not meet their internal lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They explained to Mr B that lenders take 
into account a number of different factors when assessing a lending application and that due 
to their lending criteria being commercially sensitive it wouldnt be expected for them to 
disclose the details of this to customers. The investigator explained they were satisfied Mr B 
had been treated fairly by Clydesdale. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings. He pointed out that he had high credit scores 
with different credit reference agencies; he had, to his knowledge, not missed or been late 
with any payments in the last six years; without knowing why the lending had been declined 
he was unable to improve his credit or sort out the problem. Mr B said he felt businesses 
were hiding behind the reason of internal lending criteria and this was unfair. He also went 
on to explain that following this, another lender had approved a credit card for him with a 
limit of £3,000. Therefore, this supported there was no issue with his credit. Mr B said he felt 
Clydesdale had made a wrong decision when declining the loan, and they were now sticking 
to it. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. That is, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr B is unhappy Clydesdale will not share with him precisely the reason his application was 
declined. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration with not knowing the precise reason why his application with 
Clydesdale was declined. However, as our investigator explained, there are reasons for 
lenders not sharing the details of how they assess lending applications. As Im sure Mr B can 
appreciate that doing so would potentially expose a lender to fraudulent applications, putting 
them and customers at risk. 
However, it is considered good practice for lenders to share with a customer the high-level 
reason why an application has failed. For example, an individual may be directed to check 
their credit file to ensure the information on there is correct. Or in this case, as Mr B has 
been told, the application was declined due to it not meeting the lenders internal lending 
criteria. 
One of the lenders considerations, as they let Mr B know, was to take into account 
information held by credit reference agencies. Im aware Mr B feels strongly that his 
application should have been approved because he had high credit scores. However, it may 
be helpful for Mr B to know that the credit reference agency scores are a guide for 
individuals as to their financial standing, and are not used by lenders who will use their own 
scoring thresholds against the information they gather. 
Lenders are required to be responsible when making lending decisions. The information on a 
credit file is only part of that decision making process. And so having a high credit score 
does not automatically mean an individual will be approved for lending.
For example, as part of being a responsible lender, credit providers are required to carry out 
affordability checks to ensure an individual can sustainably manage the additional financial 
commitment. There is no set list of checks a lender is required to complete, rather theyll 
take into account a number of different things. Im aware that Mr B subsequently went on to be successfully approved for a credit card 
application and believes this is therefore an indication that Clydesdale were wrong to decline 
his application. However, I think its important to be aware that every lender will have a 
different approach to how they agree their lending, and they will have different lending 
thresholds and appetite to lend.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but based on what Ive seen Im unable 
to say that Clydesdale have acted unfairly by not sharing with Mr B the precise reason for 
declining his application. Clydesdale explained it was due to their internal lending criteria, 
and in the circumstances I dont think theyre required to share any more detail than this for 
the reasons Ive explained above. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman