DRN-3314576
Complaint
Mrs E says that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) treated her unfairly when 
it added an excessive amount of overdraft fees to her current account.
Mrs E is being assisted with her complaint by her friend Mr L.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es concerns. She thought that what Yorkshire had 
already done to put things right over the years was fair and reasonable and so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr L didnt think Yorkshire had done enough and thought the balance 
remaining with the third-party debt purchaser that had bought Mrs Es debt should be written 
off. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Yorkshire charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Yorkshires charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs E if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Es 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs E was experiencing difficulty. 
I think its fair to say that Yorkshire has already refunded a significant proportion of the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Es account during the period concerned. It also 
provided Mrs E with a control function on her account in 2016. And while this did incur a 
monthly fee this was a control function to ensure Mrs E didnt incur unplanned overdraft fees 
on her account. 
So while Ive considered what Mr L has said about his experience as a Yorkshire customer, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs E was charged a fee for a Signature or any other 
packaged account. Its also worth noting that Yorkshire slightly increased Mrs Es overdraft 
limit to provide an additional buffer against exceeding her limit too. 
Having considered everything, it seems to me that Yorkshire took significant steps to help 
Mrs E with her account. And I simply dont agree with Mr Ls assertion that Yorkshire did not 
give due consideration to giving appropriate help to a customer having difficulties.
 
I appreciate that Mr L has said that Mrs E has been suffering with mental health issues and 
that she didnt understand the letters or the banking system. Im sorry to learn of Mrs Es 
issues and can understand why this might well have made financial matters more daunting. 
But I havent seen that Yorkshire was told anything about this prior to 2019 and this is even 
though Mrs E was engaging with it about her account before then. So, in these 
circumstances I cant reasonably say that Yorkshire ought to have tailored its 
communications or taken additional steps to provide further support. 
 
As Mrs E believes the outstanding debt should be written off,  Ive, in any event, considered 
whether there is anything else to indicate that Yorkshire should refund any of the other 
interest, fees and charges that it added to Mrs Es account. But having done so, I dont think 
that there is a compelling reason for me to say that Yorkshire should have identified further 
difficulties.
I say this because there were regular credits going into Mrs Es account throughout the 
period concerned and while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
Mrs E expenditure, it is almost exclusively card payments and cash withdrawals. I accept 
neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs E wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in this transaction history in itself 
which ought to have alerted Yorkshire to potential financial difficulty. Indeed, Mr L himself 
appears to accept that Mrs E was living within her means. 
Ive seen that Mr L has focused on some of the charges added to Mrs Es account being 
concentrated in specific periods. But Ive already explained that it isnt for me to determine 
whether the costs passed on were proportionate to the service provide. And, in any event, 
the period Mr L has most focused on is the period where Yorkshire refunded most of the 
fees that it did. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs E at the 
relevant time, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Yorkshire to proceed with the interest, 
fees and charges it hasnt refunded. As far as I can see, while the charges wouldnt have 
helped, I dont agree it is solely because of the charges that Mrs E has an outstanding 
balance remaining with the third-party debt-purchaser. So overall I think that the £222 in 
charges Yorkshire has already refunded  together with the £100 it paid for any service 
issues - is fair and reasonable here. This means that I dont think Yorkshire needs to arrange 
for the outstanding balance on the account to be written off either. 
Ive seen that Mr L has now referred to Mrs E receiving poor service in a Yorkshire branch in 
2016. However, I cant see that this a matter thats ever been raised with Yorkshire prior than 
Mr Ls response to our investigator. And it certainly didnt form part of the initial letter of 
complaint. As a respondent firm needs to be given the opportunity to consider matters before 
our involvement, Mrs E, or Mr L on her behalf, will need to direct this matter to Yorkshire in 
the first instance. And as this hasnt been done yet, I offer no comment on this matter in this 
final decision.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that what Yorkshire did over the 
years to help Mrs E was fair and reasonable. As this is the case I dont think it has treated 
Mrs E unfairly and Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs E. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman