DRN-2715652
The complaint
Mr C and Mr O complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled and settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage to their roof.
What happened
Mr C and Mr O jointly hold a buildings and contents insurance policy with UKI. During the 
night of 14 and 15 January 2020 they said part of their roof was blown off following a storm. 
They said this caused water ingress and internal damage to two of the bedrooms in their 
property, their hallway and stairs.
Mr C and Mr O contacted CTI on 15 January to make a claim under their insurance policy for 
damage caused to their property. CTI instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B in this 
decision, to inspect the damage Mr C and Mr Os property had sustained.
When B attended Mr C and Mr Os property it inspected their roof. Mr C and Mr O had 
already, by this point, discarded the part of the roof that had blown off. But from what B 
observed of the remaining roof, it said the damage had occurred as a result of age-related 
wear and tear. And it felt the adverse weather had simply highlighted the condition of the 
roof. It provided a report to CTI containing photographs of the roof and confirming its opinion.
Following Bs report, CTI declined Mr C and Mr Os roof claim. It said damage due to wear 
and tear was excluded under the terms of their policy. But CTI agreed to cover resultant 
damage to their property interior under the accidental damage section of their policy.
Mr C and Mr O complained to CTI about its decision to repudiate their claim. They also 
complained about the manner in which their claim had been handled and progressed. But 
CTI didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim. It thought it had 
applied the terms of their policy fairly. 
Being dissatisfied with the way in which CTI had resolved their complaint, Mr C and Mr O 
referred it to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. He accepted there had been storm conditions within 
Mr C and Mr Os locality on the relevant date. But he wasnt persuaded their roof was in 
good condition prior to the storm. And he didnt think the damage had been caused as a 
result of a one-off storm event. Mr C and Mr O rejected our investigators view of their 
complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C and Mr O have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed submissions and feel very strongly that their claim should be paid. I want to assure 
them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is 
key to the complaint  namely whether CTI acted reasonably in declining this claim. And Ill 
explain why I think it has.
Theres no dispute that there was roof damage to Mr C and Mr Os property. However, 
theres a disagreement between Mr C and Mr O, B and CTI about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mr C and Mr Os policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might 
happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, in order for a 
claim to be successful, Mr C and Mr O would have to show that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm our service considers three main 
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mr C and Mr Os complaint, and all the evidence, with these three 
questions in mind. All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be 
able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
It isnt in dispute that the weather within Mr C and Mr Os locality on the date their roof was 
damaged meets CTIs definition of a storm. So, Im satisfied I can answer question one 
affirmatively.
But Id like to make clear that, even if there was a storm, for me to uphold a claim for storm 
damage Id have to be persuaded that the damage caused was consistent with what our 
service would normally consider storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was 
the main/dominant cause of the damage. 
Ive thought about whether the damage Mr C and Mr O reported is consistent with damage a 
storm typically causes. In this case part of the felt roof lifted up  exposing what was 
underneath  and it blew off. Im satisfied this type of damage is something that could be 
expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address  namely whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. 
In this case CTI relies on Bs report, which it says shows the damage was caused by age-
related wear and tear. But Mr C and Mr O disagree with this. They say their roof was in good 
condition. And they say theyve been prejudiced in presenting their claim because CTI didnt 
instruct them to retain the part of the roof that blew off. This has been discarded and 
therefore cannot be inspected.
I understand Mr C and Mr Os concerns about being unable to present an independent 
expert report to our service to show how the damage to their roof was caused. But I cant 
speculate as to what that might have shown  I can only assess this complaint using the 
available evidence. 
Ive carefully reviewed Bs report. This spans 48 pages and includes numerous photographs 
showing the condition of the remaining roof following the storm. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen Im persuaded the Mr C and Mr Os roof is in poor condition. Theres evidence of 
weathering and deterioration. I can see there are cracks in the felt and its worn through at the corner. Im mindful that this, is of course, based on what I can see of the remaining part 
of the roof. I think though, on the balance of probabilities, the state of the roof that blew off 
would have been in the same, if not a worse, condition. I say this because it wouldnt have 
otherwise detached in the strong winds. 
Ive also considered the invoice Mr C and Mr O provided from the company that repaired 
their roof. As our investigator has already explained, the invoice shows that company quoted 
to replaced rotten timber decking as part of the repairs it needed to undertake to Mr C and 
Mr Os roof. I think this indicates that there were parts of the roof that were rotten. This is 
something that happens gradually. So, this coupled with the other evidence Ive seen, 
persuades me that the roof was not in good condition prior to the storm.
Under the terms of Mr C and Mr Os policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is 
specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen, and gradual or age-related loss or damage, 
for example, isnt unforeseen. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mr O but Im not satisfied that the damage to their roof was 
caused by a one-off storm event as was required under their policy. As Ive mentioned, it 
isnt disputed there was weather that meets CTIs definition of a storm. But I think the storm 
highlighted the pre-existing condition of Mr C and Mr Os roof and caused it to worsen. I 
dont think the roof would have lifted and blown off had it been in good condition.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think CTI made an error in attributing 
the cause of the roof damage to be wear and tear. The photographs and evidence Ive seen 
support that conclusion. As this is something that isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr C and Mr Os insurance policy, I cant fairly ask CTI to approve their claim. 
I can see that CTI agreed to cover the cost of redecoration and reinstatement work to the 
interior of Mr C and Mr Os property. Theyve raised questions as to how CTI could cover this 
when its repudiated their claim for damage to their roof. But Mr C and Mr Os policy includes 
cover for accidental damage to buildings. And, for a claim to be settled under this clause, it 
must be shown that the damage was caused by a sudden and unexpected event from an 
outside force, which is what happened. Their roof claim cant be settled under this clause 
because it was damaged due to its condition. 
The photographs Ive seen of the affected parts within Mr C and Mr Os home satisfy me that 
their interior was in good condition. Damage was caused by the ingress of water from their 
roof. This would be properly covered as accidental damage under this section of their policy. 
It follows that CTI acted fairly in settling the damage that occurred within their home.
I appreciate that Mr C and Mr O feel very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint 
and I know theyll be disappointed with my decision. But, while I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service, Im satisfied that CTI has fairly repudiated Mr C 
and Mr Os roof claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman