DRN-1820182
The complaint
Mr P complains about his insurers Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who wanted to charge 
him an excess policy fee under his home emergency policy. He thought that there should be 
no excess charge for a new call out as he believed it was a follow up repair.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr P experienced issues with his boiler and called Aviva. He paid the 
excess on his policy of £95 and Aviva sent an engineer. The engineer repaired the boiler but 
didnt change any parts. 
In March 2019, Mr P contacted Aviva again and reported that he was experiencing the same 
issue with his boiler. Mr P asked if he would need to pay the policy excess fee as he 
believed that the policy terms suggested that the repair was covered by a 12-month 
guarantee.
Aviva told him that he would need to pay the policy excess as this would be classed as a 
new claim and not a continuation of the previous one. It also said that for it to be linked to the 
previous repair the fault wouldve had to have happened within 28 days of the last repair. So, 
as this didnt happen within the time frame, it would be classed as a new claim. 
Mr P complained as he said that the repair done in December 2018 was inadequate and 
according to Avivas terms and conditions the repair would be covered with the guarantee. 
He said that there was no mention of the 28-day limit to cover reoccurring faults and the 
level of communication from Aviva had been poor. Mr P didnt pay the policy excess and so 
Aviva didnt send out an engineer.
Mr P instructed another boiler engineer, independent of Aviva in October 2019. He repaired 
his boiler by replacing parts among other things. Mr P said that the engineer told him that 
there had been corrosion and that it hadnt been properly cleaned from the previous repair. 
So, Mr P wanted a refund of the policy excess paid because he felt that the repair in 
December 2018 and the fault he reported in March 2019, were linked. 
Aviva asked Mr P for evidence that would show a link between the two and apologised for 
the poor communication. However, as Mr P didnt provide the evidence it requested, it 
wouldnt refund Mr Ps policy excess fee. 
Mr P was unhappy with its decision and brought the complaint to the service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr P didnt show that there was a 
link between the repair in December 2018 and the second reported fault in March 2019. He 
said that the work carried out in December 2018 and that in October 2019 werent the same. 
And he concluded that Aviva were entitled under the terms and conditions of the policy, to 
charge a policy excess. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said that Aviva had failed to provide him with 
good service because its engineer didnt provide an accurate report of his work and this was 
where the confusion arose. He said that Aviva had told him that the work was covered by a 
12 month guarantee and so he shouldnt have to pay another policy excess fee. He said that 
the 28-day limit clause for reoccurring faults was nowhere to be found in its terms and 
conditions and it was unfair for Aviva to rely upon a term that didnt exist.
Mr P asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr P has made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Repair in December 2018 and October 2019
Both parties accept that a repair took place in December 2018, the issue is whether that 
repair can be linked to the fault that Mr P reported in March 2019. Mr P said that he 
experienced the same issue that he reported in December 2018. Mr P said that he wasnt 
happy with the engineer at the time as he felt the engineer didnt seem to be able to assess 
the problem. Despite this, Mr P accepted that the engineer resolved the issue with his boiler 
and so carried out a repair without replacing any parts.
Aviva has said that for a few months the boiler was working well until Mr P reported the 
second fault. When Mr P reported that fault, Aviva relied upon a 28-day limit to cover 
recurring faults. Mr P says that this clause wasnt contained within Avivas terms and 
conditions of the policy. I have read the policy document and I agree. Although we cant 
comment on how a business operates, we can look at whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of a complaint.
The term and condition of the policy that relates to the guarantee period states:
Under this policy, the workmanship and any part(s) used by us to solve the problem will be 
guaranteed for a period of twelve months from the date the work is carried out.
Both parties accept that no parts were installed during the repair that took place in 
December 2018. I think that the guarantee applies to both workmanship and parts, but I 
havent seen evidence that the workmanship on the December repair was at fault. So, even 
though the 28-day limit isnt contained within the terms and conditions, I think that Aviva has 
acted reasonably when it said that the guarantee didnt apply to the second potential claim in 
March 2019, as no parts were replaced in December 2018. Also, the workmanship alone 
isnt guaranteed without parts being replaced. Aviva asked Mr P to provide evidence that the issue in March 2019 was a continuation of the 
fault in December 2018. Mr P didnt provide this additional evidence and I can see that he 
was content to be talked through a self-fix by Aviva when he reported the problems he was 
experiencing. So, I think Aviva were reasonable in requesting payment of a further policy 
excess fee before sending another engineer in March 2019. 
Engineers reports 
I have next looked at the engineers reports. Aviva provided the report for the repairs in 
December 2018, whilst Mr P has provided the report for the repairs that took place in 
October 2019. Mr P said that the issue that happened in December was the same issue his 
boiler experienced in March. But he hasnt provided any further evidence that could support 
this. Unfortunately, without any evidence to the contrary, that could support his position, I 
can only proceed on what has been presented. From the reports I can see that there arent 
similarities between the two repairs. Not least because several items were replaced in 
October and no parts were replaced in December. 
Also, the amount of work done in the October repair I think showed a more extensive repair 
in that seals and other parts were changed. Sections of the boiler were cleaned, and testing 
was done. Conversely the repair in December primarily adjusted flow rates of the boiler and 
as Mr P said cleaned parts of the boiler. So, I am persuaded that the repair in December 
amounted to mainly maintenance (as Aviva had said) whilst the repair in October was far 
more of an extensive repair.
Poor communication 
Aviva admitted that Mr P encountered difficulties in receiving a response from its claims 
manager, for which it has apologised. I have read the contact notes and I can see that 
despite this, Aviva did regularly maintain contact with Mr P via phone and letters to keep him 
updated. So, although he found it difficult to contact one person at Aviva, I am satisfied that 
Aviva did take steps to maintain contact with Mr P and keep him informed. So, I dont think I 
can reasonably ask Aviva to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman