DRN-3734610
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unnecessarily converted funds into a
foreign currency, causing him loss.
What happened
In 2021, Mr P bought an item through a private sale and paid the seller by bank transfer. The
seller was based outside the UK, but the sellers bank was in the UK. Mr P used the Lloyds
banking app to transfer the payment to the sellers account. But the amount the seller
received was £324.39 less than the amount Mr P transferred.
Lloyds said this was because Mr P had requested the payment to be made in Euros. The
funds didnt need to be converted from Sterling because the sellers account was a UK
account. But the funds were converted twice, once from Sterling to Euros and then back to
Sterling. Lloyds said that was why the amount the seller received differed from the amount
Mr P sent.
Mr P complained and asked Lloyds to refund the £324.39. But Lloyds said it hadnt charged
Mr P this amount and hadnt made a mistake. It said that Mr P used the banking app to
make the payment and had confirmed all the details, including the currency. It said it had
also sent him two text messages which stated that the payments were in a foreign currency.
Mr P wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought the complaint to this service. He said
that, as the payment was from one UK bank to another UK bank, the currency conversion
wasnt necessary. He said that if hed gone into a branch to make the transfer, the staff
would have realised this and the currency conversion wouldnt have happened. So, he says
hes worse off because he made the transfer online.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 September 2022 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. Lloyds accepted my provisional recommendations and Mr P said he didnt have 
anything more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
Its not disputed that the currency conversions were unnecessary here. Nor is it disputed that
Mr P instructed Lloyds to make the transfer using the app and that he input the payment
details himself. Lloyds says he confirmed the currency and type of payment. Mr P accepts
that he used the international payment section of the app. I understand that this was
inadvertent on his part and he accepts that he shouldnt have used the international service.
But he says he didnt see any reference to Euros or an exchange rate when he input the
payment details.
Ive seen the landing page of the international payments section of the app. Mr P would have
had to enter the amount in Sterling which he wanted to send. There is a drop-down menu
below this to select the currency to be used. Mr P says he didnt select Euros. From the
information Ive seen it looks as though Euros may have been the default currency. If Mr P
didnt notice at this point that the payment was going to be converted into Euros, I dont think
thats Lloyds fault. But I do think the unnecessary currency conversion could have been
avoided later on in the process.
Mr P had to enter the recipients details. This included the recipients address, which was
outside the UK. But he also input the recipients bank account details. These were UK bank
details: the bank address was in the UK with a UK identifier code and the account number
was a UK account number. Mr P says that, if hed gone into a Lloyds branch to make the
transfer, the staff would have seen that the transfer was from one UK bank to another and
the currency conversion would have been avoided. I think thats likely.
From the information Ive seen about the app payment transfer process, I find it likely that Mr
P was shown that the funds were going to be transferred as Euros. I cant fairly conclude
that its Lloyds fault that Mr P didnt notice this. But I think its reasonable to expect Lloyds
system to have recognised that the funds were being sent to another UK bank and raise a
query.
I note that the final part of Lloyds process is to call the customer and obtain authorisation for
the payment. Lloyds did call Mr P and the notes of this call say the agent explained that the
payment didnt need to be sent as an international payment. So it looks as though the
problem could have been avoided at this point. But the notes record that Mr P seemed to
hang up because he couldnt hear. The agent called back but Mr P still couldnt hear. So I
dont think this call can be said to constitute approval of the payment by Mr P. The app says
Dont want to make the payment? Just hang up. This is in effect what Mr P did, but the
payment still went out, triggering the two currency conversions. I dont think Lloyds should
have sent the payment, as its process required approval from the customer and it didnt have
that here.
After the call, Lloyds sent two text messages to Mr P referring to the foreign currency
payment and asking him to call. The first of these messages was sent shortly after the call
Ive referred to above. The other message was sent two days later. The funds had already
debited Mr Ps account by the time the messages were sent. So its not clear that they would
have prevented the currency conversions, even if Mr P had responded to them promptly.
And Lloyds seems to have gone ahead and processed the payments even though it didnt
receive a response from Mr P. I dont think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
In conclusion, I think that the requirement for a phone call to obtain approval could have
avoided the unnecessary currency conversions here, in the same way as would likely have
happened if Mr P had gone into a branch. But I think Lloyds made a mistake at this stage of
the process. I dont think the payment can be said to have been authorised where Mr P
ended the call because he couldnt hear. The agent knew he couldnt hear. And Lloyds didnt
receive a response to its text messages. If Mr P had been able to hear the call, or if the
payment had been held back until a successful call could take place, it seems likely the
confusion over the currency and nature of the payment would have been avoided. I think this
was a mistake on Lloyds part which resulted in Mr P being out of pocket by £324.39. I think
Lloyds should reimburse this.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £324.39 to Mr 
P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman