DRN-2642546
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) closed his credit card 
account even though hed cleared his outstanding balance.
What happened
Mr O had a credit card account with Barclays. Barclays identified the account had been in 
persistent debt and notified him of this. Mr O cleared the outstanding balance in September 
2020. After Mr O cleared his balance, Barclays wrote to him to tell him the account was no 
longer in persistent debt and that he could start using his card again.
Barclays wrote to Mr O again in November 2020. It said that it had reviewed the account and 
didnt think it would be the best option for Mr Os finances if he continued to use his card at 
the moment. So it said it was placing a hold on the account on 13 November 2020 and that it 
would close the account completely on 15 January 2021. It closed the account a few days 
later than this  on 18 January 2021.
Barclays said that having the account closed in this way didnt impact his credit file 
negatively. It also said Mr O could apply for a new Barclaycard at any time but that thered 
be no guarantee of the application being approved as it would be subject to review and a 
credit search.
Mr O is unhappy because he cleared the debt but still had his account closed. He wants 
access to the account again. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. He said that while Barclays had said the account could be used again, this didnt 
prevent it from reviewing the account and suspending it at a later date. He pointed out there 
were around two months between issuing the letter stating the account could be used again 
and the letter notifying Mr O the account would be closed in two months time. He was 
satisfied Barclays had provided enough notice before closing the account and had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions.
Mr O disagreed. He said he was given false hope that hed be able to continue using his 
account. Hes also said hes been told that if he applies for another credit card, it would be 
declined. He believes this is due to the low interest rate he had with Barclays. Hes said that 
he shouldve been offered a reduced credit limit or an increased interest rate rather than 
being told to clear his balance and then having his account closed. The case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr O, I dont uphold his complaint and 
Ill explain why.
Mr Os complaint was about the closure of his account. Hes offered some suggestions about 
alternative options Barclays couldve used rather than closing his complaint. But its not for 
me to say that Barclays shouldve offered to lend on different terms  thats a commercial 
decision and not something our service would generally comment on. Its also not for me to 
say that it has to continue to lend. I can appreciate it was disappointing for Mr O to clear his 
debt and have his account closed anyway. But Barclays didnt agree how long the account 
would remain open for, and its allowed to continue reviewing the situation. 
So the question I have to answer is whether Barclays acted in line with its terms and 
conditions in closing the account, with consideration to whats fair and reasonable. 
Barclays terms and conditions provide several reasons why an account might be closed, 
and it may require immediate repayment of the outstanding balance. But it also provides 
information about how much notice it will give if its closing an account for a reason other 
than those listed. In these cases, it says it will give at least two months notice  which is 
what it did here. So its acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
The two-month period gave Mr O sufficient opportunity to seek an alternative provider. But I 
also note that the letter notifying him of the closure of the account acknowledged that it might 
not be the news he was expecting. It said that if he was concerned the changes could make 
things difficult for him, he should let Barclays know. So, while Im satisfied Barclays has 
acted within its terms and conditions, I think its also demonstrated that it wasnt looking to 
make things worse for Mr O financially. 
Mr O has referenced being told that hed be declined for another Barclaycard. I dont know if 
hes applied and been declined or whether hes had another conversation with Barclays, but 
from what I can see, he was told he could apply for a new card but that there werent any 
guarantees around whether hed be accepted. Id refer back to my earlier point that its not 
for me to say that Barclays is required to lend to Mr O but I also wont consider this aspect 
any further as the complaint brought to our service was about the closure of the account, not 
the outcome of applying for a new credit card.
Based on all the evidence, I cant see that Barclays has acted unfairly or outside of its terms 
and conditions in closing Mr Os account. So I wont be asking it to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC . 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman