DRN-3704227
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited (Bapchild) has declined two 
claims on his motor warranty policy. 
Reference to Bapchild includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P submitted two claims. The first claim submitted was for a failed rocker cover gasket, 
and a subsequent claim was submitted following the alleged failure of the fuel injectors in his 
engine. Bapchild declined both claims citing wear and tear.  
So, Mr P complained to this service. He said the motor warranty policy was worthless and he 
wanted compensation to reflect the two failed claims that he says should be covered, the 
diagnostic tests, the time wasted and a refund of premium. Bapchild initially said this wasnt 
a product that came within our remit, and as such it said we couldnt look at the complaint. 
Bapchild also said the parts failed due to wear and tear, and this was excluded from cover. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint. The investigator deemed the policy to be within the 
scope of our remit. The investigator also recommended that Bapchild pay the costs 
associated with replacing the rocker cover gasket only. The investigator said it was more 
likely than not that the injector failure was excluded.  
Mr P agreed in part. He was happy that part of his claim was being paid. But he still felt the 
policy had been mis-sold and he wanted his premium back. Bapchild responded with an 
engineers report solely about the injectors. But it didnt accept or reject the investigators 
view. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Ill firstly address Bapchilds comments about this being a service agreement. Bapchild is a 
member of our compulsory jurisdiction so Im satisfied we can consider complaints about it. I 
now need to consider whether Bapchild has been carrying out a regulated activity and 
whether this service agreement is a contract of insurance. So, Ive looked at the contract 
between Mr P and Bapchild. This contract is one which Mr P paid a fee for to protect him 
against mechanical breakdown. Our investigator has already set out the criteria I need to 
consider, to decide if this is a contract of insurance, And Im satisfied, without setting the 
criteria out again here that this particular contract has all the features of an insurance 
contract. So, we can consider this complaint. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Bapchild has acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
the two claims Mr P made under the terms and conditions of this policy. 
The first issue is the rocker cover gasket. The garage determined that the gasket had failed, 
and that oil was spitting out whilst the engine was running. The policy is silent on whether 
gaskets are covered. But the policy does exclude wear and tear. There is nothing on file to 
document what happened, bar an invoice for repair. In later correspondence, Bapchild says 
that the content of any discussion about this gasket is outside its knowledge. It says that in 
all probability it failed as a result of wear.
If Bapchild want to decline the claim based on an exclusion in the policy, it needs to 
evidence that this is fair. But Bapchild hasnt sent us any information and theres no report 
been completed on the cause of the fault. So, Im not satisfied Bapchild has shown its 
actions were in line with the policy or fair. It follows that based on the limited information Ive 
seen; I dont find its decline of Mr Bs claim fair. To put things right, Bapchild needs to pay Mr 
Ps claim for the rocker cover gasket repair as set out in the invoice sent with our 
investigators view, less the excess, but with 8% added interest from the time Mr P paid for 
the repair.
The second issue is the failed injectors claim. This time there was a conversation about the 
injectors and Bapchild sent an engineer out to inspect the failure. The engineer said a 
diagnostic scan showed no fault codes stored or pending. He said there was an evident mis-
fire in the engine but the injectors had not been removed so werent available for inspection 
or testing. In conclusion the engineer said the condition is wear and deterioration related.
Usually Id say this wasnt enough. The reality is that the engineer made a conclusion based 
on the age and mileage of the vehicle, not based on a visual inspection of the failed part, as 
none of the injectors had been removed. However, I note that in order to get the vehicle back 
running smoothly, a full set of injectors was required. So, it seems there was a consistent 
issue across all of the injectors, and not just one or two of them. As such I think its more 
likely than not this was a wear issue that was in line with the age and mileage of the vehicle 
as opposed to a sudden mechanical failing. As such, I have to conclude that even though 
Bapchild probably didnt do enough to decline the claim, its more likely than not the injectors 
failed due to wear and this is excluded from cover. So, I wont be asking Bapchild to pay this 
part of the claim. I do note that Bapchild, via its agent did attempt to provide second-hand 
replacement injectors, but they were not the correct fit for this vehicle.
I appreciate that Mr P wants us to recommend a full refund, alongside paying both claims 
and compensation. He doesnt say the policy was mis-sold. But he does say that the policy 
is worthless, and not worth the premium. Mr P bought this 36-month extended warranty, 
probably in a face to face sale alongside the purchase of the car. And generally, when 
purchasing an extended warranty on a second hand car there will be certain limitations. I 
cant say what Mr P was told when he bought the policy, as I wasnt there. But I can see 
these limitations have been clearly set out in the documentation Mr P shouldve received, so 
Mr P shouldve been aware of the scope of the policy. And Mr P is now getting the benefit of 
this policy as he is getting part of his claim paid. As such, based on the evidence I have on 
file, theres no suggestion that the policy was mis-sold. So, I wont be asking Bapchild to 
refund the premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Bapchild Motoring World 
(Kent) Limited to:
Pay the invoice (including associated costs as per the invoice) for the failed gasket, 
less excess but with 8% interest added from the date Mr P paid the invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman