DRN-3890754
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) changed his graduate account to a spend and 
save account. This meant he had a large unplanned overdraft which he was going to be 
charged for. He is also unhappy at the service he received by TSB when looking into his 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr P held a graduate account with TSB. The account came with an interest free overdraft 
with a limit of £2,000. Due to a technical error on TSBs part Mr Ps overdraft was removed. 
Mr P complained to TSB about this on 20 May 2020 and it reinstated the overdraft and 
compensated Mr P £39 (£30 for the inconvenience and £9 for the calls made to TSB by 
Mr P).
On 31 May 2020 Mr P received a letter explaining that his graduate account would be 
converted to a spend and save account. The letter explained that the overdraft will remain 
the same but that Mr P would no longer have the interest free element of the overdraft that 
comes with a graduate account. 
Following receipt of the letter Mr P contacted TSB in June 2020 and explained he was 
concerned about the change in account and the impact this would have on him. TSB 
responded to this by telling Mr P he should contact his branch if he wanted to discuss the 
spend and save account. Mr P again contacted TSB in October 2020 to reiterate that he was 
still unhappy with the interest he was now being charged on his account to which TSB never 
responded.
Mr P was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and reached the conclusion that as TSB had 
notified Mr P in advance about the changes to his account it hadnt done anything wrong and 
didnt think it had done anything wrong in how it had dealt with Mr Ps complaint. Mr P 
disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 30 
November 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither Mr P or TSB have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr P has experienced and see if TSB has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that TSB changed his account from a graduate account to a 
spend and save account (which introduced a fee for the overdraft) and failed to address his 
concerns about this. I can see from TSBs internal notes from a phone call with Mr P on 17 
June 2020 that he had received a letter advising of the change to his account and that Mr P 
was concerned about the new charges and fees that came with this account. Mr P was told 
that he would receive a response to his query by email. 
Having not received a response I can see that Mr P called again on 30 July 2020 asking 
TSB to chase as the matter as it was now urgent as the new charges on his overdraft were 
due to come in on 7 August 2020. Again, Mr P received no response and chased TSB in 
October 2020 where TSB advised Mr P to contact his branch for more information on the 
spend and save account.
While Im in agreement with our adjudicator that Mr P was notified of the changes to his 
account in advance and was aware of the introduction of charges for use of the arranged 
overdraft  I dont agree that the service Mr P received regarding this change was good 
enough. 
TSB failed to respond to Mr Ps concerns regarding the change in his account on a number 
of occasions. When it did respond it suggested Mr P spend more of his personal time trying 
to address his concerns by making a visit to one of its branches which undoubtably wouldve 
been a further unnecessary inconvenience, when I think his concerns could have been 
addressed over the phone or by email.
So overall and having considered everything, although I think TSB correctly notified Mr P of 
the changes to his account and charging structure of the overdraft facility, I think it failed to 
address his concerns about this properly and I am currently minded to direct TSB to pay 
£100 to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
I understand that Mr P would like a refund of the interest charged on his overdraft while 
waiting for a response to his complaint but as Ive stated above Mr P is aware of the charges 
and fees on the spend and save account and I dont think it would be fair to say that TSB 
shouldnt be able to charge for the use of this facility. So I dont award any refund of interest. 
And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ps complaint against TSB Bank plc and direct it 
pay the fair £100 compensation as outlined in my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman