DRN-2588723
Complaint
Miss H has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan. She says that TFS Loans ought to have seen she had 
defaulted on multiple loans already and that she also had a terrible credit score.
 
Background
TFS Loans provided Miss H with a loan of £5,000.00 in July 2013. The loan was secured by 
way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 66.7% which meant the total 
amount to be repaid, including interest, fees and charges of £4,998.28, was £9,998.28. It 
was due to be repaid in 36 instalments of around £277. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown TFS Loans Miss H wasnt able to sustainably repay 
the loan. TFS Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Hs complaint. 
TFS Loans hasnt said much about what it did to satisfy itself Miss H would be able to repay 
this loan. It says that our investigator based his assessment on insufficient information. But 
Im satisfied that sufficient information has been provided for me to be able to decide this 
complaint and that TFS Loans has had more than enough time (in excess of the 4 weeks it 
initially wanted) to provide anything further it wished our service to look at, or dispute our 
investigators conclusions.
Having considered the information provided, Miss H told TFS Loans that her monthly income 
was around £1,400.00 and that she was employed as a beauty therapist. TFS Loans asked 
Miss H to provide two months worth of bank statements to verify this and also carried out a 
credit check. The bank statements didnt support Miss H receiving £1,400.00 a month and 
the credit check showed that Miss H had defaulted on, at least, ten separate accounts in the 
13 months preceding this application.
Bearing this in mind, I think that TFS Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that 
Miss Hs financial position was such that any further lending was simply unsustainable for 
him. I say this because TFS Loans was required to establish whether Miss H could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the 
basis that it, in any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover 
payments from the guarantor. 
Miss Hs recent history of defaulted accounts demonstrated that shed had significant 
difficulty meeting her existing commitments to multiple creditors. Miss H may have told TFS 
Loans that this wouldnt be a problem going forward but this was coupled with her being 
unable to evidence receiving the salary she said she did. 
So I think that TFS Loans ought to have realised Miss H would more likely than not either 
borrow further to repay this loan, or worse still default on it in the same way shed done on 
ten separate occasions in the months leading up to this application. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont see how TFS Loans didnt see that it would be increasing Miss Hs 
indebtedness in a way that was always likely to be unsustainable otherwise harmful. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that TFS Loans failed to take account of Miss Hs 
circumstances suggesting that providing this loan would increase her indebtedness in a way 
that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for her. So I dont think that it 
was fair for TFS Loans to have provided Miss H with this guarantor loan.
As Miss H paid interest and charges on a guarantor loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS Loans did wrong. 
So I think that TFS Loans needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss H
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any broker and loan administration 
fees) Miss H paid as a result of this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were originally paid by Miss H to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Miss H in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman