DRN-3667066
The complaint
Mrs S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim she made on a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S insures her home with AXA. A wooden floor was damaged and she made a claim for 
this.
After carrying out enquiries, AXA concluded the claim wasnt covered by the policy. The 
cause of the damage couldnt be established. It said if the cause could be ascertained, it 
would look at whether this was something covered by the policy.
Mrs S was unhappy about this and complained to AXA. She was also unhappy about delays 
and communication during the claim process and that AXA had collected a policy excess 
from her but not made any settlement of the claim.
AXA agreed there had been issues with its handling of the claim and paid £100 
compensation to Mrs S. It said that its response to cover for the claim had been fair.
Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that AXAs response in 
terms of the policy cover and the compensation paid was reasonable. She said AXA should 
refund the policy excess. AXA agreed with this but Mrs S didnt. She said that AXA should 
pay additional compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three separate issues which I need to address within this decision which Ill 
address individually.
Cover for the claim
The terms and conditions of Mrs S policy detail the various perils, or causes of damage, 
which will be covered. In order for a claim to be covered, it needs to have been caused by 
one of the listed perils. I dont intend to list all of these.
The burden of proof to show that the damage claimed has been caused by one of the 
covered perils falls on the policyholder, in this case Mrs S. 
While theres no dispute that the wooden floor has sustained damage, the various 
investigations carried out havent been able to identify the cause of this. Where the cause 
cant be established, its not possible to confirm whether the damage has been caused by 
one of the insured perils, and whether it falls within the scope of the policy cover.
Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly when it said it cant cover repairs to the floor at this point. 
Its said if a cause can be established, then it will reconsider its position. I think this is fair. 
Without a cause, it cant be confirmed whether the policy covers to this damage.
Claim handling
Its accepted that making an insurance claim is likely to cause a degree of distress and 
inconvenience. An insurer isnt responsible for that. Insurers have a duty to handle claims 
promptly and effectively. Where that doesnt happen, its appropriate for additional distress 
and inconvenience to be recognised.
In this case, I agree that there were aspects of the claim that could have been handled 
better. There were occasions when the level of communication with Mrs S wasnt adequate, 
and she needed to make contact in order to be updated on what was happening. The lack of 
updates seem to have arisen due to a lack of meaningful progress with the claim on 
occasion.
AXAs recognised this and said that it would pay £100 compensation to Mrs S. I think that 
this recognises the additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S because of the 
poor claim handling. The effect wasnt negligible and should be acknowledged by way of 
compensation but I cant agree that it was so significant as to require AXA to pay more than 
this.
The excess payment
During the course of the investigations into whether the claim would be covered, Mrs S 
made a payment of to cover the policy excess. 
Mrs S claim has been unsuccessful, for the reasons highlighted previously. Ive concluded 
AXAs decision regarding cover was fair. As the claim was unsuccessful, AXA should refund 
the excess payment. The excess is intended to be the policyholders contribution to the claim 
settlement. No settlement has been made, or is anticipated. The excess should therefore be 
returned to Mrs S. I understand AXA now agrees with this position.
I would add that if, following further evidence being put forward by Mrs S, the claim is 
covered by AXA, it would be entitled to either deduct the excess from any settlement 
payment made to her, or obtain a payment from her to cover the excess if the repairs are 
carried out by its preferred contractors. That only applies if cover for the claim is accepted.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must refund the excess payment to Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman