DRN-3210304
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Car Time Motor Company UK Limited (Car Time) mis-sold her a
mechanical breakdown warranty policy when she acquired a car.
What happened
In June 2020, Mrs B acquired a used car first registered in December 2015 from Car Time. 
To acquire this car, she entered into a hire purchase agreement with a company I will call 
C. Car Time arranged the financing through C for Mrs B. The cash price of the car was 
around £23,000. Mrs B part exchanged her previous car which Car Time appraised at 
£6,500. She paid £10,000 cash deposit to Car Time. £7,200 of the cash deposit went 
towards the advance payment on the finance agreement, and £2,800 went towards a six-
year mechanical breakdown warranty package.  
Mrs B said that Car Time mis-sold her the mechanical breakdown warranty. She said that 
she was told that she couldnt get 0% financing if she didnt purchase the warranty, but after 
the sale she said she found out from C that she didnt need to buy the warranty to be 
applicable for 0% financing with them. She said that the advertisements, social media, terms 
and conditions and videos on Car Times website do not stipulate that one must buy the 
warranty to be applicable for the 0% financing option when buying a car from Car Time. 
On 17 July 2020, Car Time wrote to Mrs B and said that they were offering 0% finance upon 
the purchase of the full Car Time Guarantee package. They said they do not offer 0% 
finance without it, and that this was their promotion and not something any third party could 
advise on. But they said they could offer Mrs B two options: The first option, they could 
cancel and give Mrs B a refund for the breakdown warranty, but that would mean that they 
would cancel the entire finance agreement. And as such, they said, Mrs B would need to 
enter into an alternative finance agreement (which would include APR at approximately 9%), 
or she would need to pay the remaining balance for the car in cash; The second option, they 
gave her is to unwind the finance agreement and accept the return of the car. With this 
option, they said she would need to pay a usage charge at £0.45 per mile travelled. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this. She also questioned Car Time why the paperwork she had 
signed states that the warranty cost is £1,500 on the warranty proposal form, but Car Time 
have taken £2,800 from her deposit towards the warranty. Mrs B said that within her 14-day 
cooling off period she asked for a full refund of the warranty cost, so she believes that she 
should be entitled to a full refund. 
In August 2020, Car Time wrote to Mrs B and said that there is an error on the mechanical 
breakdown warranty proposal form with regards to the cost showing as £1,500, but that the 
correct amount of £2,800 is noted on a separate sales invoice. In this correspondence they 
again reiterated that they are happy to cancel the breakdown warranty, but that under this 
option, the 0% finance would no longer be available as it is offered as part of a complete 
package. So, they told Mrs B that if she would like to pay the remaining amount for the car in 
cash, or with an alternative agreement she should let them know. 
Mrs B was unhappy with Car Times responses, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
On 22 March 2021, Car Time confirmed to our investigator that they would still consider 
unwinding the finance agreement.  
On 29 March 2021, our investigator wrote to Mrs B and said that he thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He was of the opinion that the two options given to Mrs B by Car Time 
were reasonable offers to resolve her complaint. The investigator also said that Car Time 
informed him that they can still look into unwinding the finance agreement.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion, but she settled the finance agreement by 
transferring the reminder of the amount due to C by a bank transfer. She has provided our 
service with a letter from C, dated 18 June 2021, which confirms that the finance agreement 
has been settled. Mrs B explained that she did a bank transfer to C directly as she didnt feel 
comfortable bringing such a large amount of cash to Car Times physical location, especially 
during Covid-19.
Car Time told us that Mrs B had not mentioned Covid-19 restrictions before and questioned 
why she has never queried alternative funding arrangements with them directly, if the 
method of payment was unclear. Also, on 5 November 2021, Car Time wrote to us and said 
that they would be prepared to provide a pro-rata refund of the warranty to take into account 
that Mrs B had the benefit of the warranty for over 12 months. So, they said they would be 
willing to refund £1,866.67 to Mrs B. 
Mrs B was not happy with this. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2021. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mrs B and Car Time that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Within 14 days of acquiring the car and the mechanical breakdown warranty, Mrs B 
contacted Car Time to say that she didnt want the warranty and asked to cancel it. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out in the insurance rules (ICOBS) that a 
consumer has the right to cancel an insurance policy, without penalty and without giving any 
reason, within 14 days of taking it out. Considering that this mechanical breakdown warranty 
is a contract of insurance, I think a consumer should be allowed to cancel such a policy 
within the first 14 days. Car Time told us that they were offering 0% finance upon the purchase of the warranty and 
that it was sold and offered as part of a complete package. Due to this they offered to refund 
the money Mrs B paid for the warranty, but they explained that she would need to pay the 
remaining amount for the car in cash, or with an alternative finance agreement. So, Ive 
considered whether Car Times offer was a reasonable way to resolve Mrs Bs complaint, but 
Ive also taken into consideration the circumstances of the situation. 
Car Time was happy to unwind the finance agreement, and Mrs B was under the impression 
that she can take them up on their offer, so in June 2021 she settled the agreement by doing 
a bank transfer directly to C. I dont think Mrs B fully understood the difference between 
unwinding the agreement (by paying Car Time the remainder of the amount due), versus 
settling the finance agreement (by directly making a payment to C). Also, she told our 
service that she did a bank transfer directly to C because she didnt feel comfortable 
travelling with such a large amount of cash to Car Times physical location, especially during 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Car Time told us that Mrs B had not mentioned Covid-19 restrictions before, and they 
questioned why she has never queried alternative funding arrangements with them directly, 
if she thought the method of payment was unclear. I think Mrs B couldve questioned this 
directly with them, but Ive considered that Mrs B lost faith and confidence with Car Time 
because of all the issues that happened when she initially took delivery of the car, so the 
communication between the two parties became less productive as time went on. I also think 
that, most likely, Mrs B didnt think that the methods of payment options were unclear, as 
most likely she just wasnt aware of the different implications of settling vs unwinding a 
finance agreement. So most likely she thought that making the payment directly to C 
wouldve not been any different than making that same payment to Car Time.
Mrs B has told us that, when she called the warranty provider listed in her documents, she 
was told that they had no details for her. So she thinks Car Time never registered her for this 
warranty. Car Time has told us that they dont issue policy numbers and use the car 
registration number. They told us that the package was registered on their system, and that 
it was noted in Mrs Bs documentation. As such, they said, there wouldve been no issue in 
the event a claim needed to be made. However, they said that in order to resolve the 
complaint, they are prepared to provide a pro-rata refund of the warranty to take into account 
that Mrs B had the benefit of the cover of the package for over 12 months. 
I think Car Time should refund the entire amount of £2,800 to Mrs B and not just the pro-rata 
refund they have recently offered. I think their original offer made to Mrs B of the two options 
was reasonable. But considering the specific circumstances of this particular case I think it is 
fair and reasonable that Car Time refund Mrs B the entire amount of £2,800. The main 
reasons are: Firstly, Mrs B thought that she was taking up Car Times offer by paying off the 
remainder of the finance agreement directly to C, as she was not aware of the difference 
between settling versus unwinding a finance agreement; Secondly, she also didnt utilise any 
of the warranty package. This is because she never wanted it from the start, and she didnt 
think she actually had the warranty, as she was under the impression that Car Time havent 
purchased the warranty from the provider because when she called the provider, they didnt 
have her details on their system. As she never utilised any of the warranty package, there 
was no expense incurred by Car Time and the warranty provider for any repairs or servicing 
work on the car. Also, shortly after acquiring the car, Mrs B wouldve potentially had some 
protection under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, had there been a fault with the car. 
Considering all of the above, I want to stress that Im only deciding in favour of Mrs B, and 
directing Car Time to provide a full refund of £2,800, because I find that this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome due to the specific circumstances of this particular case.Usually in similar circumstances, I would also be asking Car Time to add 8% simple interest 
per year to the £2,800 amount to compensate Mrs B for being without the funds. But I dont 
think this would be reasonable in this situation. I say this because, as I mentioned, Car 
Times original offer of the two options proposed to Mrs B was reasonable, and I think Mrs B 
couldve mitigated some of her losses if she questioned Car Time on whether physical cash 
was the only option available, or whether she could do a direct bank transfer to them. So, I 
think this wouldve mitigated some of the situation and potentially the complaint couldve 
been resolved much earlier. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint, and direct Car Time Motor 
Company UK Limited to cancel the mechanical breakdown warranty, and refund £2,800 to 
Mrs B.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 20 December 2021.    
Mrs B and Car Time accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments or
evidence to provide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering neither Mrs B nor Car Time had any further comments to 
make I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional 
decision (copied above).
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Car Time Motor Company UK Limited to cancel the 
mechanical breakdown warranty, and refund £2,800 to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman