DRN-2056651
The complaint
Miss S complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited declined a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy as she wasnt covered for commuting.
What happened
Miss S reported an accident to Skyfire in February 2020. Skyfire said it wasnt covered as 
the accident happened when she was on her way home from work and the policy was limited 
to cover for social, domestic and pleasure use (SDP). Miss S said she wasnt asked what 
cover she wanted when she bought the policy, but thought she was covered for commuting.  
Skyfire provided a copy of the sales call. It showed the advisor asked Miss S whether she 
needed cover for commuting or just SDP and that she said Just social. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. Initially he thought her complaint fell 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA), as 
shed been asked a clear question and had carelessly provided an inaccurate answer. On 
this basis, he thought as Skyfire would have offered her cover for an extra sum in premium, 
it should cover a proportionate amount of her claim, in line with CIDRA. 
Subsequently, after considering all the facts further, the investigator decided that CIDRA 
didnt apply to Miss Ss situation. He said Skyfire had asked what cover she wanted, and 
shed chosen SDP. He said it wasnt possible for her to answer that question incorrectly or 
for her to make a misrepresentation about it. He went on to consider whether Skyfire had 
declined the claim reasonably. He thought it had done so, given that Miss S chose only SDP 
cover. And he didnt think the policy was mis-sold, as Miss S had suggested. 
Miss S asked for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The recording of the sales call shows that Miss S was asked to make a choice about the 
level of cover she wanted  which was SDP, or SDP with commuting cover. Miss S chose to 
have social cover only. I dont think that in choosing the level of cover she wanted, Miss S 
misrepresented any facts to Skyfire. She simply decided when asked that commuting was a 
risk she didnt want to insure and was happy with cover limited to SDP. In my opinion, 
CIDRA doesnt cover that situation.  
Had the advisor asked Miss S what purpose the car would be used for - and shed said it 
wasnt going to be used for commuting  I think that would have been a misrepresentation. 
Thats because Miss S would then have given Skyfire an inaccurate answer to a clear 
question about the cars use. But that isnt what happened here. 
Although Miss S thinks she was mis-sold the policy, I dont think thats the case. Skyfires  
advisor asked Miss S what type of cover she wanted and thats what was sold to her. 
I think Skyfire dealt with Miss Ss claim fairly. The accident happened when she was driving 
outside the agreed terms of the policy, so there was no cover in place. In my opinion, in 
those circumstances Skyfire wasnt obliged to deal with the claim. 
Skyfire told us it had settled a previous claim for Miss S in October 2019, when she had an 
accident that fell within the SDP cover that was in place at the time. And just before that 
accident, it seems Skyfire sent Miss S an email that pointed out she didnt have commuting 
cover, but that she could add it by calling or by going online. 
Miss S says she didnt get the email, although Skyfire can show it was sent. Regardless of 
that, it isnt clear why she didnt add commuting to the new policy, when she intended to 
drive the car to and from work. Unfortunately, as a result of not having the right cover in 
place in February 2020, Miss S now faces paying the costs arising from the accident. I 
sympathise with her situation, but as I dont think Skyfire has acted unreasonably, I cant 
uphold Miss Ss complaint.    
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman