DRN-2855397
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, complains about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
handled requests for Mrs Hs savings account statement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its accepted Halifax didnt send the statement when it was requested on 11 
December 2020. So the dispute is whether it was sent when Mr H requested it again 
on 30 December 2020. 
Halifax has provided its internal screenshots showing a task was created to send the 
savings account statement on 5 January 2021, and it was completed on the same 
day. And I can see Halifax had the correct address at that time. 
I cant say for certain whether this was sent. But civil disputes like these are only ever 
decided on the balance of probabilities  in other words, whats more likely than not. 
And here, Im persuaded by Halifaxs records that its more likely than not Halifax 
sent the statement on 5 January 2021. 
Mr H says Mrs Hs current account statement was incorrectly sent instead. But from 
Halifax records, I think this was sent as well as Mrs Hs savings account statement  
further to a request on 8 January 2021. So I dont think this delayed things. 
Halifax paid £50 for the initial delay in sending the statement. Mr H thinks Halifax 
should pay more  to reflect that it delayed Mrs H moving to a care home and selling 
her home. 
But there are lots of things that can affect selling a home  and Im not persuaded 
Halifaxs initial mistake here, causing a delay of around three weeks, was a key 
factor in that. So, in all, I consider Halifaxs offer of £50 fair in the circumstances to 
reflect Mrs Hs inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman