DRN-3047562
The complaint
Ms G complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which she says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this Service on Ms Gs behalf 
by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Ms G. 
What happened
TFS provided Ms G with a loan of £10,000 on 6 July 2018. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if she failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 21.88% (39.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 60 monthly 
repayments of £349. If Ms G made each repayment when it was due, shed pay £20,940 in 
total. On the basis of the most recent information Id seen, the loan hadnt yet been repaid.
Ms G said that TFS didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting credit or
assess signs of her over indebtedness. She said that the unaffordable high cost loan 
worsened her financial situation which was already poor.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Ms Gs complaint. It had 
found no evidence that the loan was unaffordable for Ms G. Its letter set out details of the 
information provided to it by Ms G. TFS said that overall the information obtained, both from 
Ms G and on her credit search, showed she had no current problems managing credit. So, 
TFS didnt believe it was reasonable or proportionate to also request evidence of Ms Gs 
expenditure, given that the remaining disposable income calculated was consistent with
the information currently showing on her credit file. TFS also said that it was clear that Ms G 
was looking to reduce her current monthly outgoings by consolidating her other
debts into one lower monthly payment. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
TFS should have carried out better checks. The investigator had reviewed Ms Gs bank 
statements to see what better checks would have suggested. She said that the bank 
statements showed that Ms Gs salary varied each month. Shed taken an average of Ms Gs 
salary payments from the three months before this loan was agreed which provided a figure 
of around £1,249. This meant that had TFS completed further checks, it ought to have 
realised that Ms Gs income was lower than shed declared on her application. This meant 
that Ms G wouldve been left with a disposable income of around £77 per month which 
wouldnt have left Ms G with a sufficient disposable income to meet any unexpected costs or 
emergencies that could arise. So, she said that proportionate checks wouldve revealed that 
Ms G wouldnt have been able to sustainably meet the repayments for this loan
TFS disagreed and responded to say that there wasnt sufficient evidence to suggest that if it 
had taken further steps to verify Ms Gs expenditure, that would have told it that the loan 
wasnt affordable. TFS said that the investigator hadnt flagged any discrepancies between 
the statistical expenditure amount it used and the expenditure shown in the bank statements. 
TFS also said it verified Ms Gs income using a credit reference agency verification tool 
which provides an amount paid into Ms Gs bank account. It said that the amount provided 
by the investigator was £31 less than the verification tool it used. It also said that Ms Gs 
income could increase, and any risk of unexpected costs would be very low considering she 
lived at home with her parents. TFS said that given Ms Gs circumstances, a disposable 
income of £77 was sufficient and as the loan payments had been maintained since it agreed 
the loan, there was evidence this loan was affordable for Ms G.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms G 
and to TFS on 13 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when TFS lent to Ms G the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Ms G could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Ms G. So even in this case 
where Ms G had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if she couldnt, this didnt 
absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Ms G could meet her repayments without 
undue difficulty.
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Gs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
TFS gathered some information from Ms G about her income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. Id listened to recordings of two phone calls between Ms G and TFS in which TFS 
collected information from Ms G. It had also carried out a credit check.
Ms G declared her monthly income as between £1,250 and £1,300. TFS asked her for her 
average monthly income amount and Ms G said it was £1,280. Ms G said she paid £150 rent 
to her parents as she lived at home. She said she was single and had no dependents. She 
was a car owner. TFS didnt ask Ms G for information about her living costs. Instead, it used 
statistical data to calculate Ms Gs monthly living costs as £290 plus £144 for car costs. 
Ms G said that she wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation and for car repairs. She 
said she would use £3,500 to repay a high cost credit loan, £1,500 to repay a credit card 
balance, £1,500 to repay a store card, £3,000 to repay a family member and £500 for car 
repairs. TFS calculated that Ms G would still have monthly unconsolidated credit of £239 to 
pay and that Ms Gs disposable income was around £108 after the loan repayment (which 
included a buffer of £65.10 it had added to Ms Gs expenditure in its calculation).
Id noted the investigators concerns about the amount of disposable income TFS calculated. 
I could see that if the amount of Ms Gs most recent monthly income before the loan 
application had been used in TFSs calculations, she would have around £94 disposable 
income left each month. I also noted TFSs comments that Ms G lived with her parents and 
so there was a low risk of unexpected costs. But Id also heard in the phone calls that Ms G 
had just experienced around £400 in unexpected costs due to the need for car repairs. So, I 
thought TFS ought to have had concerns about whether Ms G could afford to repay the loan 
in a sustainable manner given that Ms G was left with relatively little money for unexpected 
expenses. TFS was required to establish whether Ms G could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Id also reviewed TFSs credit report. TFS would have been aware from this that Ms G had a 
total credit balance of £3,255 outstanding. The report showed that Ms G had around ten 
active accounts. These didnt include the high cost credit loan which Ms G said she would 
repay from TFSs loan. Id noted that five of the active accounts were likely to be short term 
loans, although they were not all described as such. The report showed Ms G had borrowed 
these five short term loans in the seven weeks prior to her loan application. Id noted that 
TFS asked Ms G during a phone conversation what she had needed her recent payday 
loans for, and she had said they were for car repairs. But I thought it also might have queried 
the 19 short term loans taken out within the five months prior to the loan application. Most of 
these had been taken out very shortly after repaying the previous one. I thought this 
suggested that Ms G needed to borrow in order to fill a hole in her finances that was made by making a loan repayment which wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. It also suggested 
that she was reliant on short term loans to supplement her income. The credit check also 
showed that there were 17 credit searches in the last twelve months which I thought ought to 
have given TFS additional concerns.
Ms G also had two credit card accounts around their credit limit as well as a mail order 
account near its limit. There was also evidence on the credit report that several of the 
accounts had been either in arrears or over their respective credit limits three to five months 
before the loan application. 
I also said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. I thought TFSs credit checks 
suggested that Ms G was facing significant financial pressures. 
Altogether I thought the extent of Ms Gs short term borrowing, together with the accounts 
near their respective credit limits and the relatively recent arrears that TFS would have likely 
seen on its checks should have put the lender on notice that Ms G was having serious 
problems managing her money. I didnt think it could be confident that Ms G would be able to 
repay the loan sustainably. And I didnt think TFS made a fair lending decision to provide the 
loan to her based on what it had already seen in its checks. Agreeing further credit for Ms G 
was only likely to add to her financial difficulties. 
Id noted that the purpose of the loan was to pay off some of Ms Gs credit. But I could see 
that the new loan wouldnt have covered all of Ms Gs outstanding debt. I could see that TFS 
was aware of this and had taken it into account in its assessment. But further checks would 
likely have shown that Ms G had other debts it didnt know about.
In addition, Id noted that TFSs loan repayment was around 27% of Ms Gs income. This 
was on top of her payments to her unconsolidated monthly credit commitments (calculated 
by TFS as £239) which were not being repaid by the loan. So, her total spending on credit 
would be almost half of her relatively low income. Even though Ms G was living at home, I 
thought that TFS ought to have been concerned about this and that it was unlikely to be 
sustainable over 60 months. 
I also thought it likely that TFS ought to have realised that Ms G would most likely have had 
difficulties repaying its loan out of her usual means, without borrowing, as it didnt appear 
she was managing to do so with her existing debt. 
Id said that I wasnt going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of 
what Id said above. It was clear that Ms G wasnt managing the debt she already had. So, 
bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that the available information demonstrated that  
Ms G wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and I thought TFSs decision to arrange 
the loan wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I thought it worth mentioning that Ms Gs bank statements from around the time of the 
loan application showed that in the month prior to borrowing TFSs loan, Ms G had taken out 
six short term loans in addition to those shown on her credit report during that period. Her 
current account was also overdrawn by around £233 prior to applying for the loan and so 
was near the overdraft limit of £250. Id also noted that the high cost credit loan that Ms G 
was repaying from TFSs loan had been borrowed just three months prior to her application. 
But shed also needed to take out four payday loans in the same month as that loan was 
taken out. I thought all this might have suggested that Ms G was reliant on short term 
lending and other high cost credit. As Ms G was borrowing a significant amount of short term 
loans each month just to fund her existing expenditure and credit commitments, I thought there was a very real prospect that Ms G would need to borrow again in order to repay her 
new loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on her financial situation. 
Id also noted that TFS had said in response to the investigators view that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to suggest that if it had taken further steps to verify Ms Gs expenditure, 
that would have told it that the loan wasnt affordable. But I thought if TFS had seen 
evidence of Ms Gs spending, it would have likely seen, in particular, that she was regularly 
spending a relatively large amount on maintaining an animal. I asked the investigator to ask 
Ms G more about this and she said she spent between £200 and £300 a month on the 
animals maintenance as well as her other regular expenditure.
TFS also said that Ms Gs income could increase. But, it was also possible that Ms G could 
cease to be employed. I understood that was currently the case.
TFS also said that the loan payments had been maintained since it agreed the loan which  
was evidence this loan was affordable for Ms G. But I didnt think that necessarily meant that 
the loan repayments were repaid sustainably, or without causing Ms G undue difficulty.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think TFS acted fairly when it provided the loan to 
Ms G and subject to any further representations by Ms G or TFS, I intended to say that      
Ms Gs complaint should be upheld and that TFS should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
TFS should:
- Ensure that Ms G only repays the principal of £10,000 borrowed on the loan. In 
other words, she should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, TFS 
should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from when it 
was opened.
- Treat any repayments made by Ms G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan.
- If this results in Ms G having made overpayments, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the overpayments are 
refunded.
- If an outstanding principal balance remains then TFS should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms G, bearing in mind its obligation to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file as a result of the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give  
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Ms G hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
TFS hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that both Ms G and TFS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require TFS to pay Ms G some compensation and take the steps as set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what TFS needs to do.  
My final decision
My decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order TFS Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what TFS needs to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman