DRN-3761433
The complaint
Mr G complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) provided him 
with ambiguous information regarding the closure of his current account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the Investigator. Ill explain 
why:
In considering Mr Gs complaint, its important to say its clear there has been a 
misunderstanding between himself and Tesco.
Its not disputed that Tesco were entitled to close Mr Gs account, or that they failed 
to give him notice prior to doing so. Rather its the specific date and time which Tesco 
closed his account that Mr G disputes. What I need to consider is if they were at fault 
for closing his account when they did.
Mr G says by stating in their communication he should move any regular incoming or 
outgoing payments to a different account, and make sure his account had a balance 
of £0 before the end of November, Tesco shouldve closed his account at 23:59:59 
on 30 November 2021 and not before.
Ive carefully looked at the communication and I dont agree with Mr G for what I 
consider to be two key points.
Tescos communication said Mr Gs account would close on 30 November 2021 
without giving a specific time the closure would take place.
Tesco advised Mr G his account would close on 30 November 2021. And it did. Mr G 
himself said he assumed that the last day for using his card would be 30 November 
2021 and that his account would close at 23:59:59 however at no point was a specific 
time set out.
And importantly, Tescos letter also advised Mr G he should make sure hed either 
switched to a new current account or returned his balance to £0 before                    
30 November 2021.
So, Im satisfied by saying Mr Gs account should be brought into a position ready for 
it to be closed before 30 November 2021, it was clear his account could be closed at 
any point throughout 30 November 2021.
While I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with my findings, had his account been 
brought to nil by the deadline Tesco gave, the issues he experienced wouldnt have 
occurred. I wont be asking Tesco to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman