DRN-3452001
The complaint
Mr S says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 on 2 November 2016. The monthly
repayment was £299.32 and the total repayable was £7,183.68. I understand there is an
outstanding balance.
Mr S says the loan was unaffordable and he has suffered financial hardship as a result.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. He said the lenders checks were proportionate
and did not show anything that meant 118 118 Money shouldnt have lent to Mr S.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments or new evidence by 28 April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr S before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of his monthly income and his monthly expenditure. It says it
checked these against reasonable average figures  but it hasnt made clear if this meant it
amended what Mr S had declared. It asked about his residential status and whether he had
dependents. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was home furnishing. It also
checked Mr Ss credit file to understand his credit history and current commitments. From
these checks combined 118 118 Money concluded Mr S had enough monthly disposable
income to afford to repay the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not persuaded 118 118 Money made a fair
lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Mr S declared a net monthly income of £1,550 and 118 118 Money could see that he had
recently taken out two loans that had combined monthly repayments of £371. By giving this
loan 118 118 Money was increasing the amount of his income Mr S would need to spend on
servicing debt to around 43%. I think at this level the lender ought to have realised there was
a risk the repayments would not be sustainable over the term of the loan. And it needed to
consider this to meet its regulatory commitments, not just the pounds and pence
affordability. I note Mr S went on to have problems making his repayments seven months
into the term of the loan.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to lend to Mr S.
I havent seen any evidence 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in
some other way.
I then set out what 118 118 Money would need to do if I went on to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Neither party sent any comments or new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence it follows I have no reason to change the findings 
or outcome in my provisional decision. For the reasons set out above I find 118 118 Money 
was wrong to lend to Mr S.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been provided to him.
It seems 118 118 Money has sold the debt so it should first buy it back it if is able to. If this is
not possible it must work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps
below. It must:
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr S
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ss loan account results in an outstanding capital balance 118 118
Money must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, must 
put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman