DRN-1193690
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) gave him incorrect 
information regarding the value of his plan after it had already made the same mistake 
earlier. Mr E said because hed lost confidence in Scottish Widows, he took his benefits as a 
lump sum. He now holds Scottish Widows responsible for any potential growth hes lost out 
on because of this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that the £200 offered by Scottish Widows 
for the loss of expectation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Scottish Widows did make mistakes, after if said it had put in place measures to 
avoid this happening again. However, Mr E wasnt entitled to the higher value so he 
hasnt lost out. Whilst I can understand Mr Es expectations were raised that he might 
get more than he did, Mr E ought reasonably to have suspected due to the prior error 
that the value quoted appeared too high. Furthermore, this error was corrected within 
6 days, so Mr Es expectations werent raised for long. In these circumstances I dont 
think a further award is required.
Mr E made his decision to take his benefits knowing the correct value that would be 
paid.  This decision wasnt made the same day he was told about the corrected 
value. So Mr E had time to consider this but chose to take his pension benefits in any 
event.
Mr E says hed lost confidence in Scottish Widows so thats why he took his benefits. 
But I cant hold Scottish Widows responsible for a decision Mr E made with 
knowledge of the correct values.
 
My final decision
My the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr E's complaint about Scottish Widows 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman