DRN-4172419
The complaint
Mr M complains TransUnion International UK Limited (TU) took too long to dispute an entry 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had an existing default on his account which he settled with the data provider  who Ill 
call E. In December 2022 Mr M noted the default was still showing incorrect and raised a 
dispute with TU on 25 December 2022. He received an update on 8 February 2023 saying 
his dispute had been passed to E. In response, Mr M complained as he felt things were 
taking too long.
TU explained its the data provider who supplies the information they show, and they cant 
remove or update this information without the data providers consent  otherwise itll just 
show up in the next automatic monthly update. TU said they could see Mr M got in touch on 
25 December 2022, and they raised the dispute with E on 29 December 2022. TU said their 
records show they received a response shortly afterwards, which said theyd recorded the 
account as settled, and the data would be sent as part of the automatic updates. E told TU 
there wasnt anything they needed to do.
TU said because of this it appears the email of 8 February 2023 was sent in error, as theyd 
already contacted E. And, having reviewed Mr Ms credit report again, they could see E are 
still reporting the account as in default, so theyd contacted them again. TU accepted theyd 
made a mistake in emailing Mr M on 8 February 2023 and said sorry for this.
The entry on Mr Ms credit file was ultimately removed.
In response, Mr M asked if TU were going to compensate him for the damage to his credit 
file. TU said no, as it was E who sets the status of his account, so hed need to contact them 
directly.
Unhappy with this Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
found TU had contacted E as theyd said they had  so he didnt think any compensation 
was due.
Mr M didnt accept this. He said the main issue with credit applications being declined is 
because his credit file still shows the default as outstanding when it should be settled. So, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in this case is whether TU contacted E as they said they did. Thats 
because if they did, then theyve done what Id expect them to do.
The evidence on file shows Mr M raised his dispute on 25 December 2022, and that TU did 
contact E on 29 December 2023 as they said they did.
The response from E on 17 January 2023 says:
Having reviewed the account, I can see the defaulted balance was paid in full on 08/11/22. 
As the balance has been cleared on the account this will mean that the Credit File will 
automatically update with all the Credit Agencies to show as a satisfied default. This is a 
system driven process, therefore no manual intervention is required at this stage.
Generally speaking, TU cant update their records unless the data provider says they can do 
so. Here, E havent given permission for TU to update the records and are clear in saying 
theyll be updating Mr Ms account status to show the default has been satisfied. In the 
circumstances, I dont think TU have done anything wrong, as E have said theyd update the 
records.
TU have provided a copy of the email they sent to Mr M to let him know of Es response. 
This was sent also on 17 January 2023. They say in this email that after investigating it with 
the lender, theyve said the account should be amended to show the defaulted balance was 
paid in full on 8 November 2022. So, reflecting what E had told them. 
Its good TU passed on Es reply, but I think they could and should have been clearer. In this 
email, as well as reflecting what E had told them, they said:
1)We can confirm that we are in the process of updating the account to reflect this. 
Please allow seven days for this amendment to show.
2)This update will be reflected on your credit report within the next 4-6 weeks when we 
next receive an update from this lender. 
3)A search of our records today shows that this amendment has already been made.
I think its fair to say given the three options all contradict each other TU should have chosen 
one of those. In Mr Ms case, it was option two, and I think that would have been helpful for 
him to have explicitly been told that.
The next contact Mr M received was the incorrect email of 8 February 2023 where TU said 
theyd raised Mr Ms dispute.
I think the above two messages are quite sloppy, and TU could and should have done 
better. 
Following Mr Ms complaint, TU did then dispute the entry with E again. Ive noted TU said 
this wasnt something they had to do. But, Mr M was still disputing the entry, so Id have 
expected TU to have done so, and am pleased to see they did. This second contact by TU to 
E seems to have led to the entry being removed. 
Overall, the primary impact to Mr M is about the entries not being removed as early as he 
expected. This isnt something I can hold TU responsible for given what Ive outlined above. I 
do think TUs responses to Mr M have been sloppy, but they have said sorry for some of 
their administrative failings. In the circumstances, Im satisfied thats a fair resolution to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman