DRN-1145452
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) has handled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S says UKI didn't give him the option of a windscreen replacement as part of a claim on 
his policy. If he had been he would've only have had to pay a £75 excess. He's also unhappy 
about other aspects of the handling of the claim including the fact he had to pick up his car 
after the repairs which led to a loss of earnings and that he wasn't given legal assistance in 
respect of his partner's injuries.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldn't be upheld. She said:
The damage to Mr S' vehicle was more than a broken windscreen. The policy 
says UKI will pay to replace or repair broken glass as long as there isn't any other 
damage. Here there was more damage so it isn't unfair for UKI to charge Mr S 
according to the terms of the policy.
The £750 excess on the policy was mentioned in the call reporting the claim. And Mr 
S was told it had to be paid to the garage when the repairs were completed. Mr S 
was given enough information about the excess and should've reasonably been 
aware it was payable.
There's no evidence any issues with the courtesy car were present before Mr S 
collected it and its reasonable for him to be held liable for any damage to it.
Mr S was told he could instruct his own solicitor and claim for personal injuries from 
the third party. That was reasonable as we wouldn't expect UKI to pay for injuries it 
wasn't responsible for.
Mr S' car couldn't be delivered on the day he wanted after the repairs were 
completed but other dates were offered. It was agreed he would collect it. And it's not 
reasonable to hold UKI responsible for any costs incurred by Mr S collecting the car.
Mr S was given some incorrect information about whether his no claims discount 
would be affected and reduced. But this was corrected later in the call and didn't 
have a negative impact.
UKI hasn't acted unreasonably.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr S is unhappy with the way UKI has dealt with him but I think it has treated him fairly and 
in line with his policy terms and conditions.Mr S was advised and made aware of the £750 policy excess payable to the repairer. And I 
don't think UKI was obliged by the policy terms and conditions to deal with the windscreen 
replacement any differently as Mr S has suggested. Mr S was also reasonably held 
responsible for some damage to a courtesy car. He also agreed to collect his car when it 
could've been delivered to him at a later date and as a result I don't think it would be fair to 
require UKI to cover his associated costs or losses of doing so.
Overall, although I recognise Mr S' strength of feeling and frustration, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably require UKI to do or pay anything more.
And I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman