DRN-3130369
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit), lent to him irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded, and any negative information on his credit file removed.
What happened
In September 2018 UK Credit approved a loan of £6,000 for Mr R, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £265 per month over a term of 60 months. The loan was 
intended to fund some home improvements; wedding expenses; and Mr R described himself 
as covering [his] back following a period of unemployment. Mr Rs friend was approved by 
UK Credit to act as a guarantor. When assessing the application, UK Credit took steps to 
verify Mr Rs income; completed an income and expenditure assessment (I&E) over the 
phone; viewed a bank statement; and carried out a credit check before approving the 
lending.
It seems that Mr R encountered some difficulties in repaying the loan, and it remains live.
After UK Credit rejected his complaint, Mr Rs representatives brought the case to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at the evidence and thought that UK Credit should 
not have granted the loan. For various reasons, UK Credit didnt accept that and asked that 
the case be passed to an Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
UK Credit is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mr R would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr R needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay UK Credit for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did UK Credit carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
In its final response letter (FRL) to Mr Rs representatives, UK Credit acknowledged some 
shortcomings in its checks. As a result of the credit search evidencing that Mr Rs 
financial position experienced some difficulties, UK Credit accepts that its 
underwriter should have explored things in greater detail and perhaps requested more 
bank statements
I agree. Its checks should have gone further in order to be proportionate. As noted by UK 
Credit, the credit search it undertook showed that Mr R was in an arrangement on his 
current account, as a result of the sizeable overdraft, and had been for the previous nine 
months. Mr R had been out of work for a few months and had just started a new job when 
he applied, so his employment position wasnt especially stable. And from what it could 
see, UK Credit was aware that he was permanently overdrawn on his current account  
usually by an amount approaching what he was expecting to earn per month in his new 
job. Finally, I also note Mr Rs description in the I&E call of him wanting the loan as a way 
of him covering [his] back. By that, I take it to potentially mean that he needed the loan 
just to exist. Which would obviously be a significant concern when considering the 
sustainability of the borrowing. So, at the very least, all of these flags together ought to 
have led UK Credit to carry out further checks.
To be clear, I have placed far less weight than the investigator on Mr Rs employment 
stability and him being in a probation period with his new job  it is only one flag which 
should have led UK Credit to carry out more in-depth checks.
What would UK Credit have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of bank statements, as opposed to the sole one obtained by UK Credit at the time. There is 
no requirement on a lender to obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted 
to source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so UK Credit 
could have opted to gather more information about Mr Rs financial position in a range of 
ways. However, UK Credit itself has set out how it would have expected the underwriter to 
have potentially asked for more bank statements and, in the absence of anything else 
provided, Im happy to rely on them.
The statements from June to September 2018 show that Mr R was essentially reliant on 
his overdraft to live. This was acknowledged by UK Credit on the final page of its FRL. I 
can also see that his overdraft limit was reducing by £100 per month, presumably as a 
result of the banks concerns about the extent of his borrowing via that facility. Although I 
cant know that for sure. UK Credit highlights that Mr R was not close to the limit on 
that overdraft. I disagree. Just on the bank statement that UK Credit saw, it is clear that 
Mr Rs average balance was about 93% of his limit. I would describe that as close.
The statements also show £10,000 coming into his account from another high cost 
guarantor lender, £9,000 of which he then transferred out to an individual who may well be 
his partner. So it seems likely that he may have been acting as guarantor on that loan, 
meaning he would have been liable for repayments had the borrower not been able to 
make them.
UK Credit also highlights that his use of his overdraft, and seeming reliance on it, is to be 
expected given his employment situation and low salary he was receiving. I accept that to 
some extent. However, it is also important to remember that the size of his overdraft was 
only slightly smaller than his expected net income at the time of the application. So, at 
best, he would only have been left a small amount in credit when he got paid. I can also 
see that at the end of July Mr R received an amount, which appears to be earnings from an 
organisation in his industry of work, broadly the same as the income he was expecting 
from his new job. And that had not improved his financial position as he seems to have 
needed to use it to immediately pay family and friends  likely for sums hed borrowed previously.
UK Credit underlines that much of Mr Rs outgoings related to items that were not a 
necessity for the normal standard of living but classed more as a luxury. Therefore, it 
posits that:
With a few changes to [Mr Rs] lifestyle choices, I have no reason to believe this 
loan was unaffordable.
However, the regulations require lenders to make a determination about affordability based 
on the realities of borrowers circumstances. Not idealised potential changes. So this point 
is not relevant.
UK Credit has also mentioned that Mr R cleared his overdraft in 2019, seemingly showing 
that he was able to move beyond relying on it. However, I can draw no conclusions from 
something that happened after the sale of this loan, especially as there is a very clear 
possibility that he borrowed elsewhere in order to be able to do this. (I also note that the 
month after he repaid his overdraft, and the facility was removed, he continued to be 
overdrawn and to have direct debits returned due to a lack of funds.)
At best, what the statements Ive seen show is an individual who was moving money 
around to stay within his overdraft limit and who was borrowing elsewhere to stay afloat. 
On this basis, I cannot see how UK Credit could have concluded that Mr Rs situation was 
about to improve so significantly and so quickly that he would be able to meet all his 
financial commitments and repay this loan without borrowing.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr R, UK Credit must do the following:
A) UK Credit must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
the loan. 
B) If this results in Mr R having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman