DRN-4063319
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc reviewed and then closed her accounts.
What happened
Ms N had two current accounts with Santander. But in October 2022 Santander blocked her 
accounts and, a few days later, decided to close them.  Santander wrote to Ms N informing 
her of its decision on 28 October 2022, enclosing cheques for the outstanding balance.
While this was going on, Ms N complained to Santander, and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at what happened but didnt think Santander had acted incorrectly. 
Ms N doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander, like all financial businesses, is subject to legal and regulatory requirements. 
These require it to monitor activity on its customers accounts and may need to carry out a 
review at any time. Where it does this, it doesnt need to give reasons. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Santander was acting in accordance with its legal and regulatory 
requirements when it blocked Ms Ns account.
The terms and conditions that applied to Ms Ns account allowed Ms N or Santander to close 
the account at any time. In some circumstances, Santander could close the account 
immediately. In all other cases, Santander needed to give Ms N two months notice. In this 
case, Santander closed the account immediately. Based on everything Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Santander acted in line with the terms and conditions.
I acknowledge that Ms N wants to know more about why Santander did this. But where 
Santander closes accounts, it doesnt need to give reasons, and nor would it be appropriate 
for me to tell Santander to share its reasons with Ms N.
Id also expect Santander to complete any review in a timely manner. The account was 
blocked on 24 October. Santander closed the account on 28 October and sent Ms N a 
cheque for the balance the same day. So based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Santander completed the review and decided to close the account without undue delay.
Ive noted Ms Ns further comments. She says that losing access to her accounts was 
stressful, particularly as it happened at the end of the month when her income comes in and 
she pays her bills. But Santander is entitled to decide who it wants to offer banking services 
to, just as Ms N wouldnt need to give reasons if shed wanted to closer her account with 
Santander. Ive concluded that Santander was acting in line with both its regulatory and legal 
obligations and the applicable terms and conditions when it blocked and closed Ms Ns 
account. Im not persuaded this was unfair. So while I dont doubt this was inconvenient to 
Ms N, this isnt something I can compensate her for.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman