DRN-1635146
The complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) when she 
took out a loan in 1996.
What happened
Mrs K applied for a loan in 1996. Mrs K took out PPI with the loan at the same time. The loan 
was for £2,500 and was to be repaid over 12 months. The premium for the PPI policy was 
£479.50. It was added to the main loan, so the total borrowed by Mrs K was £2,979.50.
The PPI policy covered Mrs Ks loan against her not being able to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. If Mrs K became too unwell to work or lost her job it would cover 
her loan repayments until she returned to work or until the loan was repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mrs K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so her complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to 
have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
The loan and the PPI were most likely arranged during a meeting at a branch. 
Lloyds doesnt have copies of any of the paperwork for the sale. I dont think this is 
surprising given how long ago it was. Lloyds has, though, shown us sample documents it 
says it was using around the time Mrs K took out the loan and was sold the PPI. Based on 
what I know about these sales at this time, I think its probable that Mrs K wouldve seen 
documents similar to those Lloyds has given us.
The loan agreement wouldve most likely have had a section about PPI with the option to tick 
a box accepting the PPI or a separate box to decline it. 
Taking into account everything Ive seen, and what I know of Lloyds usual sales process at 
the time, I think its most likely Lloyds made it clear Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose to buy it - although I can understand why she might not recall this after so 
many years.Because it looks like the PPI was sold in a face to face meeting, I think its most likely Lloyds 
recommended Mrs K buy it. That means it had to make sure it was right for her. And from 
what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mrs K was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as 
if these wouldve affected Mrs K. For example, she didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mrs K told us she wouldve received sick pay from her employer if she became unwell. But 
the PPI sold to her would have paid out on top of any sick pay, and potentially for longer. 
The policy would also pay out if Mrs K lost her job, meaning she could use any redundancy 
pay or savings for other living costs. So, I think Mrs K wouldve found the policy useful if 
things went wrong.
The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which was added to the loan.        
I note that if Mrs K cleared the loan early, she wouldnt have got a proportionate rebate so 
she may have lost out. But this was a relatively short-term loan and Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mrs K intended to repay the loan early or had a history of doing so in 1996. 
So, I dont think the early cancellation terms made the policy unsuitable for her.
Lloyds should also have given Mrs K clear information about the policy so she could decide 
whether to buy it. Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mrs K all the information it shouldve done. 
But I think its likely she agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover. 
And as the policy appears to have been right for her, I dont think any clearer information 
wouldve put Mrs K off taking it out. So, I dont think shes lost out because of anything 
Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
In summary, I think it most likely Lloyds made Mrs K aware that the PPI policy sold to her in 
1996 was optional. And I think she chose to buy it. I think the policy was right for her and 
would have been useful if Mrs K couldnt work or lost her job. And even if Lloyds had given    
Mrs K all the clear information it should have, I still think she would have taken out the PPI 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint, and I make no award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman