DRN-3989343
The complaint
Miss E complains a three-year bond she invested into issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G 
plc) was mis-sold. She says was told the investment was relatively secure and protected by 
the financial services compensation scheme (FSCS).
Miss E is represented in this complaint by her grandfather but, for ease, Ill refer to Miss E 
directly throughout my decision.
What happened
Miss E invested £19,000 into a three-year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond in July 
2017. Sales of this bond was dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from B&G plc. BG Ltd arranged applications for investment in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Miss Es investment in the bond
Miss E recalls that she was referred to BG Ltd by her grandfather, who also helped her 
complete an application. Miss E sent a cheque to Gallium dated 25 July 2017 to fund her 
investment.
Ive been provided a copy of the records BG Ltd held on its system and this confirms the 
application history for the bond. I have a copy of the bond certificate showing an application 
date of 24 July 2017. 
Ive seen system records which confirm an everyday investor tag was added on 24 July 
2017. The investment questionnaire, ISA, and B&G terms were also completed the same 
day.
There are post-sale call recordings on file, but I havent received any calls conducted on the 
date the application was made. 
Based on the Miss Es recollections, and system records Ive seen, Im satisfied there is 
some evidence that the application process was completed online. And this is in line with 
what Gallium has told us. 
At the time, Miss E was a student and received the money she invested from a relative. The 
purpose of the investment was to help Miss E fund future studies. She didnt have any other 
investible assets. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Miss E 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Miss E underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Miss 
E was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Miss Es complaint
Gallium did not uphold Miss Es complaint. It said Miss E had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once 
Miss Es complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Miss Es complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
He said, in summary:
   The application process  both in terms of the certification of Miss E as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
   Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Miss E wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Miss E to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Miss E for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
   Regardless of label, Miss E was required to confirm that she met the requirements 
of a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Miss E giving an 
incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
   The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
   It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
   Miss E made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of 
the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment 
regardless.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear, and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
   BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Miss E into certifying herself as 
belonging in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Miss E fairly 
or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Miss 
E, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
   The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Miss E. In the circumstances Miss E 
would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should 
have concluded it should not promote the bond to Miss E.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Miss Es complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Miss E would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Miss E for her loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Miss 
E as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Miss E would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Miss E's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Miss E fairly, Gallium must:
  Compare the performance of Miss E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
  Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
  Pay to Miss E £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss E and for the 
disruption in her plans for future study.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Miss E agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Yes to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Miss E that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the portfolio in future.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
  Miss E wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Miss E's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Miss E would have invested 
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Miss E in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman