DRN-3701704
The complaint
Miss H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S). 
Miss H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2018, Miss H purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Miss H financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The first 
loan repayment was deferred for six months and the loan was repayable over ten years.
In July 2021, the CMC made a claim to Ikano on Miss Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Miss H to enter into the contract. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The solar panels would pay for themselves over the loan period from the combined 
benefits of the Feed-in-Tariff and electricity bill reduction. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld.
Ikano disagreed and said the sales contract clearly stated the basic cost and the first-year 
benefit of the solar panel system. And from this it was clear that the system would not be 
immediately self-funding. Especially considering that additional costs were added on top by 
the use of the interest-bearing loan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. I 
reviewed all the evidence and information to reach my decision. I issued a provisional 
decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. I provisionally decided 
that, given the available evidence, it was unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
misrepresented the solar panel system in the way Miss H has alleged.
Ikano provided no further information or comments.
The CMC responded to say that Miss H disagreed with my provisional decision for various 
reasons, including:
Miss H was told the system was self-funding in that the monthly loan repayments 
would be met or exceeded by a combination Feed-In-Tariff (FIT) payments and 
savings in electricity bills after year 3. 
This was in direct contrast to the information provided within the sales contract. 
Miss H was aware the system would not immediately be self-funding, but when she 
challenged the salesperson on this, she was assured that the panels would be self-
funding after year 3.
The sales contract only provided estimated benefits for year 1. For Miss H to have 
sufficient information to make a reasoned decision estimates would have to be 
provided for each of the first 10 years. 
To date, more than 4 years after installation, the benefits of the solar panels still do 
not cover the loan repayments. 
The sales contract does not show the true costs of the system to Miss H, simply 
referring to a deposit and balance. It does not include the costs of the finance. So, 
Miss H could not compare the true cost with any benefits, making it extremely difficult 
for her to make an informed decision.
Miss H deferred her first loan payment for six months. 
It is no defence to a misrepresentation to say that the complainant could have 
discovered that the statement that induced them to enter the contract was false had 
they taken more care.
I have now considered these additional points in making my final decision. This is in line with 
provisional decision  and I do not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Miss H could claim against Ikano, the creditor, 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could 
have claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss H 
and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documentsThere are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The sales contract is a two-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed by hand 
and signed during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Miss Hs 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Sales contract
The sales contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits 
of the system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £8,800.00, through a deposit of 
£100.00 and a balance of £8,700.00 for which Miss H took out a loan. 
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£401.91 and £527.31 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. 
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Miss H 
would use herself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown on the same 
page, which Miss H signed. 
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. To spread the cost of 
£8,800.00 over ten years would mean repayments of at least £880 per year. This is 
significantly more than the highest potential first-year benefit quoted of £527.31. And that is 
before adding the cost of interest on the loan. I think this sales contract was an integral part 
of the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed with Miss H as they 
were written on the contract during the meeting. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Miss H has alleged.
Self-funding
Miss H may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  
such as its expected 25-year lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the system 
may be self-funding over 16 years if the benefit was in line with the estimate and remained 
about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Miss H couldve been told that the system was self-
funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that she was told the system 
would be self-funding within the loan term  given the information shown on the contract, 
which I think wouldve been discussed with her.
The CMC has suggested that Miss H wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if she was told 
it was not self-funding within 3 years. But, it appears she agreed to pay approximately 
£1,119.00 per year in loan repayments when she was told the financial benefit of the system 
in the first year would be up to £527.31. In doing so, she wouldve been expecting to make a 
net contribution in the first year of at least £591.00. So, I think Miss H wouldve been aware 
that the system would not be self-funding within three years.
The CMCs additional comments
While I have taken into account Miss Hs testimony about what she was told, Im not 
persuaded that this is plausible and persuasive  given the other evidence available. Bearing 
in mind what was shown on the sales contract, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson 
wouldve described the system as self-funding in the way Miss H has alleged. Or that if they 
had, and Miss H had challenged them on this, that Miss H wouldve accepted that the 
system would be self-funding despite what it said in the sales contract.
While the sales contract didnt provide estimated benefits beyond year one, the estimated 
benefit shown was only £527.31. The sales contract showed the basic cost of the system 
totalled £8,800.00. Divided by ten years, that would be £880.00 per year  far more than the 
year 1 benefit even before accounting for the loan interest. 
The loan agreement, which the CMC says Miss H accepts was clear, shows a monthly loan 
repayment of £93.31, deferred for 6 months. And a total amount payable of £11,195.93. So, 
by year three, Mrs H would need to receive benefits of at least £1,119.60 per year for the 
system to be self-funding. This is more than double the first-year benefit. I am doubtful that 
Mrs H could reasonably have accepted that the benefit would more than double within a few 
years in order to cover the loan repayments. Overall, I am not persuaded that it is plausible that the salesperson wouldve made the 
misrepresentation that has been alleged. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that there were no untrue statements of fact made 
by the supplier that induced Miss H to enter into the contract for the system, and I have 
found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman