DRN-3804893
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2018, Mrs A was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call Z to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of Z, Mrs A decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs As behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, Z had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs A to enter into the contract with Z. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500 each 
time).
The CMC also alleged that an unfair relationship had arisen between Shawbrook and Mrs A, 
due to:
the misrepresentations;
Shawbrook allegedly paying commission to Z as an incentive to offer Shawbrook 
loans to Zs customers; and
Shawbrook allegedly failing to carry out a credit assessment to see if Mrs A could 
afford the loan.
The CMC criticised Z for not making it plain that the solar panels would depreciate over time.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs A or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that Z had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs A and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
it was not plausible that Mrs A would have agreed to buy the system if she had 
known it would take 13 years to begin to turn a profit;
the salesman had not taken Mrs A through Zs quote;
the High Court has ruled in favour of consumers in other cases (in particular in 
Hodgson v Creation Finance [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm)).
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs A could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by Z in the same way she could 
have claimed against Z (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by Z as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid Z commission or gave Z some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary. The CMC also relies on Shawbrooks alleged failure to carry out a 
credit check, but Shawbrook has provided evidence that it did carry out a check with a credit 
reference agency, as well as ascertaining Mrs As income. So I do not think there is anything 
in those two points; I deal with the alleged misrepresentations below.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
I have read the Hodgson judgement, but I derived limited assistance from it, as that case 
was decided on different facts. The solar panels in that case were sold and installed by a 
different company and its sales literature was different. In this case I have focused on what Z 
did and said, and on Zs sales documentation.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.Mrs A says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive considered these, along 
with Mrs As testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Z, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
Z would have discussed this in detail with Mrs A, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. Mrs A has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs As 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs A has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by Z as well as Mrs As recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The quote has a page titled What will you earn & save per year?  This sets out the total 
estimated income and savings Mrs A could expect to receive from the system, and is broken 
down into FIT payments, savings on energy bills, and savings from her selected optional 
extras. This shows the figures for each year for the first 20 years, and then for another five 
years after that (the FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period). It gives the 
totals for each year, and also for the entire 25 year period.I think that the table is clear that Mrs A could expect to receive a total income in year one of 
£751.29. This results in an average monthly income of £62.51. Im satisfied that the quote 
also set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £106.98, or more than 
twelve hundred pounds a year. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs A was told that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a page headed Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs A entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £106.98. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £108.33, but the difference  £1.35  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for every 
year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to cover the 
loan payments.
The years of shortfall  which is all of them  are highlighted in red. In the table for 180 
months, the profitable years are highlighted in green, so I think this information is presented 
in a clear and accessible manner.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs A could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mrs As version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of 
the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether Z told Mrs A that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the repayments table above which sets out the estimated average monthly 
income from the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan 
repayment. Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 
£1.35 discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by 
Mrs A, so Im satisfied that Z did bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs A was told by Z that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The 25-years table shows that it would take ten years for the overall benefits that Mrs A 
could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system, which was £9,473.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£13,499.60) 
would be reached during year 13.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 25 at 90.40%. So Im satisfied that the quote did take into account 
that the panels would deteriorate over time, and said so, and that this would have been 
factored into the table, and into the quote generally. Im also satisfied that the quote made 
this clear to Mrs A.
So Im satisfied that Z told Mrs A that the system would pay for its cash price in ten years, 
and for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the graph and the table above, which 
were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this 
was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, then 
that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of 
the system and whether this is in line with the contract between Z and Mrs A.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote both set out that the system is expected to produce 2,932 
kWh a year. I have looked at Mrs As FIT statements and can see that her system, on 
average, has generated 3,406 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by Z at the 
point of sale (116%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of 
energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Mrs A has not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by Z, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by Z at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs A hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by Z were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for Z to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs A could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by Z at the time Mrs A entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mrs A that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell her during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by Z that induced Mrs A to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman