DRN-2255102
The complaint
Mr Z complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to send him a new 
account card after telling him it would.
What happened
Mr Z says he asked RBS for a new credit card in April 2020 and it agreed to send him one. 
But it then said it would not do so. Mr Z says RBSs actions amount to discrimination and 
caused him financial difficulties. He would like £1,000 compensation and says RBSs 
compensation offer isnt enough. Mr Z says he hadnt used the credit card account since 
2016 but needed to use it due to the present difficulties.
RBS accepts it made a mistake by telling Mr Z that it could order a new credit card for him. It 
says it gave Mr Z the wrong information when he called it on 17 April 2020 and called him on 
18 April 2020 to provide the correct information. RBS says it has paid £50 compensation and 
paid £32.40 for Mr Zs call costs. It also says Mr Z can apply for a new credit card account.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought RBS was entitled in these circumstances to decide it was not going to issue a 
replacement credit card and had paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for 
giving Mr Z the incorrect information.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that RBS has dealt fairly with this complaint. 
I realise Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that RBS made a mistake by telling Mr Z that it would send him a 
new credit card. But I can see that RBS told Mr Z the following day that it gave him incorrect 
information and so I dont think that mistake had a significant impact on Mr Z. Im also 
satisfied that RBS has fairly apologised for what took place and has paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation as well as fairly paying for Mr Zs call costs.
I appreciate that Mr Z says RBS has discriminated against him but I make clear I have not 
seen any evidence of that. I think this was a mistake and the RBS member of staff Mr Z 
spoke to didnt appreciate that this account hadnt been used in some years and it couldnt 
simply send Mr Z a new account card to allow him to start using the account again.
I also think in any event RBS is entitled under the account terms and conditions to restrict 
the use of an account or end an agreement. So overall, I think its up to RBS to decide if it 
wishes to continue its relationship with Mr Z in these circumstances, and that it fairly told him 
that he could apply for a new credit card account if he wished.
Overall, I find that RBS has dealt fairly with this complaint and for those reasons I cant order 
it to pay the compensation Mr Z would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman