DRN-2117266
The complaint
Mrs H and the estate of the late Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about two PPI policies  one taken out in March 2001 and the other in June 
2001. Each policy was added to a secured personal loan with Halifax when Mr and Mrs H 
took out the loan. The policies were sold on each occasion during a meeting with Halifax.
The PPI policies were both in Mr Hs name. They would have covered Mr and Mrs Hs 
monthly loan repayments until Mr H returned to work or the loan was paid off if hed made a 
successful claim for accident or sickness, or for up to 12 months if hed made a successful 
claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Both loan agreements which Mr and Mrs H signed included equally prominent options to 
accept or decline PPI. And on both occasions the box was selected indicating that they 
wished to take PPI. It looks as if the cross in the yes box may have been printed. But 
I think its likely PPI was discussed during the meetings and, on each occasion, Mr and 
Mrs H agreed to take it out. I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware on both occasions 
that the PPI was optional. And I think they decided to take it, knowing that they had a 
choice  although I can understand how Mrs H may no longer remember this, given the 
time thats passed.
Halifax says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. Based on what we 
know about the way Halifax sold these policies at the time, Ive assumed that this is right. 
This means that Halifax had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs H. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances when the policies were sold.
Mrs H originally told us that Mr H was in permanent, full-time employment when they 
took out the loans. After the adjudicator sent out his view of the complaint, she told us 
that Mr H worked on contracts, but the contracts were acquired by a company with 
which, to the best of her knowledge, Mr H was in permanent, full-time employment. She 
doesnt know how much, if any, sick pay hed have been entitled to. But I think its likely 
that the PPI would potentially have paid out for significantly longer than Mr H would have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the PPI policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay Mr H would have received from his employer. 
So Mr and Mrs H could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr and Mrs H, 
particularly as Mrs H has told us that they didnt have any savings they could have fallen 
back on.
The cost of the policies was clearly set out on the loan agreements. So I think Mr and 
Mrs H would have known how much they needed to pay for the PPI each month and 
found this acceptable.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H chose to take 
out the policies. So they appear to have wanted this type of cover, even if Mrs H has 
understandably forgotten this now, so many years later. Based on the information 
provided, Im satisfied, on balance, that they werent affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think theyd still have 
taken out the policies.
Ive borne in mind that Mrs H has told us she believes people who sold these loans knew 
how to persuade people who werent familiar with the documents. I accept that Halifaxs 
adviser may have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, and pointed out the benefits of 
having the cover. But I cant fairly conclude, based purely on what Mrs H says about events 
that happened so long ago, that unfair pressure was put on Mr and Mrs H to take the 
policies.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but for the reasons Ive set out, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman