DRN-3719287
The complaint
Miss W complains NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua wont correct the mobile number it has on its 
system and dealt with her complaint poorly causing distress.
What happened
Miss W says Aqua offered her a pre-approved credit card which she applied for and was 
sent. She says she was told shed need to download Aquas app and activate her new card, 
but that she couldnt do this as Aqua had an incorrect mobile number on its system.
Miss W says she emailed Aqua and then wrote to Aqua asking it to correct the mobile 
number on its system. She says Aqua didnt initially respond, and when it did it said that 
shed have to call. Miss W says shes unable to call Aqua and complained.
Aqua investigated Miss Ws complaint and said that it had a process it needed to follow 
when updating a customers details, and that it couldnt update them on the basis of a letter 
or an email. Aqua said Miss W would need to call. Miss W was very unhappy with Aquas 
response and customer service and so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint and said that they didnt think Aqua 
had acted unfairly. Miss W was unhappy with our investigators response saying that the 
customer service shed received from Aqua was well below what she should expect as a 
customer. She was particularly unhappy that Aqua didnt initially reply to any of her emails or 
letters and when it did it made no mention of her inability to call. She asked for her complaint 
to be looked at by an ombudsman. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss W is unhappy. Aqua sent her several emails offering her a pre-
approved credit card, and after deleting the first three she decided to apply for the card as 
money was tight. Aqua then sent her a card, but shes been unable to use the card as the 
mobile phone number in Aquas records is incorrect and shes been unable to change it. 
Thats important because a code is sent to that number in order to activate the card and to 
use it on an ongoing basis.
Im satisfied that the number on Aquas records is the number that was given on the 
application for the card sent to Miss W. In the circumstances, I can understand why Aqua 
has to take care to make sure who it knows has asked for the number to be changed. I can 
see that Miss W has told Aqua shes unable to call. But on the facts of this particular case, I 
agree that Aqua didnt act unfairly saying that it needs to follow the process it has in place.
Miss W has told us that she deleted the first three emails Aqua sent her offering a pre-
approved credit card. Shes also told us that she ultimately decided to apply as money was 
tight. Ive seen emails about Miss W not being able to activate the card, some of which say 
that the card will have to sit in a drawer if nothing is done and others of which show how 
annoying this was. I can, in the circumstances, understand why this whole experience has 
been frustrating. However, Im satisfied that Aqua investigated this complaint within the time 
its allowed, and although it could have said more about what it had been told, I dont agree 
that it should have done more in this particular case.
I know that Miss W will be disappointed to hear this, and that shes also very unhappy that 
Aqua has now closed the card. But I dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint as I 
dont think Aqua acted unfairly in this particular case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman