DRN-2869113
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited is acting unfairly by not offering him a 
higher discount off his debt in line with the offers made by other businesses.
What happened
Mr K tells us that for some years hes been paying off various debts to different businesses.
And that due to his low income he thinks that Capquest should write off the debt or offer a 
discount of more than the 30% its offered. He says other businesses have written off his 
debts or offered larger discounts than Capquest.
Capquest told us that Mr K didnt meet its criteria for a debt write off. But it had previously 
offered him a 30% discount in 2018. It said that a payment arrangement of £5 per month 
was in place. But that if this was unaffordable to Mr K it would consider a more suitable plan.
Our investigator thought that Capquest had acted fairly and didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with Mr K and recognise that debt can be a stressful experience. And I can see 
that Mr K has been paying off debts to Capquest and other businesses for many years.
I understand why Mr K might think that if other businesses have written off his debts or 
offered higher discounts that it was unfair of Capquest not to do likewise.
Capquest, like any other business, is entitled to collect debts that it is lawfully owed. But in 
doing so its required to treat Mr K with forbearance and due consideration. Theres no set 
means by which this has to be done. Each business is entitled to apply its own criteria. But 
typically this might include a freeze on interest and affordable payment arrangements. 
Its not in dispute that Mr K has a payment arrangement of £5 per month. And the account 
statements Ive seen indicate that Capquest hasnt charged any interest on the account 
since it acquired the debt several years ago.
I can see that in 2018 Capquest wrote to Mr K offering a 30 % discount for settlement of the 
debt. Im aware that Mr K doubts the authenticity of these letters. And says that he didnt 
receive them. But having seen copies of the letters, Im satisfied they were genuine. And 
Capquest cant be held responsible if correctly addressed mail isnt delivered.
Whilst Mr K may not have seen these letters, it seems improbable that he wouldve been 
able to act upon them even if he had been aware of them. Hes explained he has no savings. 
As the discount was being offered in respect of a lump sum settlement its unlikely he 
wouldve been able to accept the terms offered.
Our investigator explained that Capquest isnt required to follow the offers that other 
businesses have made. It has its own criteria and Mr K doesnt come within that. And I note 
that Capquest explained this to Mr K when it declined his request for the debt to be written 
off in 2020. Ive seen no information that indicates that this decision was for reasons other 
than those based on Capquests present criteria.
Id add that Capquest would be required to keep Mr Ks account under review. And if his 
circumstances changed or in future he met the criteria for the debt to be written off, the 
position might alter.
In summary, I dont think that Capquest has done anything wrong here. Its agreed a 
sustainable payment arrangement with Mr K. And has said that if Mr K considers this is no 
longer affordable it will review the position if he provides details of income and expenditure. 
Its confirmed that whilst any arrangement is being met it wouldnt take further recovery 
action.
Overall, whilst I accept that Mr K is likely to disagree, I find Capquest has acted fairly.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman