DRN-2969872
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
a claim he made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H contacted Red Sands to make a claim under his pet insurance policy.  
This was for treatment his dog, C, needed. The treatment was for a corneal ulcer on Cs left 
eye.
Red Sands considered the claim and declined it. It said it had reviewed Cs clinical history 
and had become aware that C first had signs and symptoms of a problem with his eyes in 
February 2019. 
Red Sands said this was relevant because Mr H has purchased a time-limited policy. 
Meaning that cover for an illness or condition was in place for 365 days after the illness or 
condition was first noticed. After that, the policy no longer provided cover for the same 
condition. Red Sands said because it considered the issue with Cs eyes had first been 
noted in February 2019, the 365-day cover run out in February 2020, long before the recent 
claim made. And so, the claim made in March 2021 wasnt covered under the policy. 
In addition to this, Red Sands explained that if it had known of the problem C had in 
February 2019, it would have provided the 365 days cover for that instance. But an exclusion 
would have been added to Mr Hs policy, to say that Red Sands wouldnt cover any more 
claims in relation to the eyes, or sight.
Mr H felt Red Sands decision was unfair. He said the incident C suffered in February 2019 
was different to the one being claimed for in 2021. In 2019 C suffered with an ulcer in his 
right eye, because of complications with having dry eye. But, in 2021 the ulcer was in the left 
eye, and was as a result of a scratch. So, Mr H didnt feel the 365-day time limit applied to 
his recent claim.  
Red Sands reviewed Mr Hs points but maintained its position. It said Mr Hs policy explained 
that problems with one eye, and then later in the other, would be considered a bilateral 
condition, and as such treated as one. This meant that when the problems with the right eye 
started, cover was for 365 days from that date for both eyes. Following that point, there was 
no further cover under the policy. Any claims for the eyes, or sight, would no longer be 
covered.
Mr H remained dissatisfied with this response. So, he referred his case to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Red Sands had acted fairly in declining the claim  because it had been declined in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. She considered that Cs medical history showed C 
had a bilateral condition, and this meant that cover under the policy had expired by the point 
Mr H had come to make a claim.
Mr H didnt agree. He noted that he hadnt made a claim for the problems with Cs right eye 
in the past and asked whether this made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. And, 
Mr H highlighted the expense of the treatment C needed in March 2021.
Our investigator explained that whether a claim was made or not, this didnt alter her 
viewpoint on the matter, and she noted she costs of the treatment. And as Mr H didnt agree, 
this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained my reasoning for 
this below.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy purchased by Mr H. And I can see Mr H 
purchased a policy that does provide cover for vet fees. But, as with any policy, the cover 
provided is subject to terms and conditions. Red Sands have said the terms and conditions 
of the policy meant the claim made in March 2021 wasnt covered. And so, Ive considered 
whether Red Sands applied these terms fairly or not. And I think it did.  
Time-Limited policy
Mr Hs policy schedule notes that claims are limited to 12 months in duration. And the 
insurance product information document (IPID), which sets out the key facts of cover says;
Our Time Limited pet insurance policies offer cover from accidents, illnesses and 
conditions. Your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition is first noticed by 
yourself or your vet, so this could mean when symptoms first arose or when an accident 
occurred.
The above is also noted in the policy summary, contained in the full policy booklet. Given 
this, Im satisfied that Red Sands made it clear that cover under the policy for an illness, 
accident or condition (such as a corneal ulcer), will only be covered for 365 days from the 
date the issue was first noticed. 
Ive looked to see when the issue was first noticed, using Cs clinical history - notes from the 
vet in relation to Cs previous visits. I can see that in February 2019 Mr H visited the vets 
because C had a sore, red eye, which the vet noted was conjunctivitis. The vet advised 
eyedrops in both eyes for a few days. 
On a subsequent visit in March 2019, the vet diagnosed dry eye in the right eye, and noted 
that this meant there was an increased risk of corneal ulcers in the future. So, drops into 
both eyes were advised going forward. It was also recommended to trim Cs hair, to stop the 
effects of hair rubbing on the eyes.
And then in August 2019, C unfortunately did suffer from an ulcer on the right eye, which 
was treated. 
Given the above information, Im satisfied that a history of problems with the right eye, 
leading to ulcers began in 2019. And, as the policy only provides cover for an illness, accident or condition for 365 days, cover for this would have run out in 2020, before Mr H 
made a claim for the ulcer in Cs left eye. 
The question however, is whether the above problems with Cs right eye, meant that when a 
claim was made for a corneal ulcer in the left eye, this was no longer covered. Ive thought 
carefully about this, and I do think the above history meant the claim in March 2021 wasnt 
covered under the policy.
I say this because Mr Hs policy also explains how it treats bilateral conditions in a pet. This 
being that it treats them as one condition.
Bilateral conditions are explained as follows;
Also, if your pet has received treatment for a particular illness or injury which appears in 
another part of the body at a later date, for example the other leg, ear or eye, we will treat 
this as the same condition. This is known as a bilateral condition. When applying a benefit 
limit or exclusion, bilateral conditions are considered as one condition.
Reading the above, Im aware that if C had an illness or injury in one eye, and then later in 
the other, this would be considered as one condition. And as it would be one condition, the 
benefit limit  i.e. cover only running for 365 days from when it was first noted, would apply 
from when the illness occurred in the first eye. 
From looking at the clinical notes of the problem C suffered in March 2021, I can see the vet 
saw a red and sore left eye and noted a moderate conjunctival infection. And shortly after, C 
returned to the vets for a corneal ulcer check-up. Im aware of the similarities of this problem, 
with the ones noted above in 2019, when C had conjunctivitis and a corneal ulcer in the 
other eye. And considering this, along with the definition of a bilateral condition, Im satisfied 
Red Sands has made a reasonable decision in saying this fall under the bilateral condition 
terms.  
I do appreciate Mr H has said the cause of the ulcer was different on the two occasions. One 
being as a result of a scratch to the eye. But the terms dont say the problem has to be 
caused in the same way to be considered bilateral. It just needs to be the same illness or 
injury. And both are corneal ulcers. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied the 365-day policy limit ran from the first issues in 2019. And 
so, by the time Mr H came to make a claim in March 2021, there was no cover under the 
policy for this instance. 
Exclusion for the eyes and sight
In addition to this, Red Sands has said if it had known that in February and March 2019 that 
C had been taken to the vet due to eye problems, it would have applied an exclusion to the 
policy from the next time it was due to renew  which was 10 August 2019. 
It notes the exclusion would have explained there was no longer any cover for the eyes, or 
sight (accept the 365 -days already running at that time). Ive thought about the application 
of this exclusion. And I dont think Red Sands has done anything wrong by applying this 
exclusion either. 
Mr Hs renewal documents do ask whether C has visited the vet for anything other than 
routine vaccinations. And by 10 August 2019, C had been to the vets twice in relation to his 
eyes. As above, the clinical history shows issues with conjunctivitis and dry eye in February and March 2019 (later resulting in a corneal ulcer in August 2019). So, the answer to this 
question should have been yes  and Red Sands should have been told about it. 
Red Sands has provided me with evidence to show that if it was informed a pet had 
Conjunctivitis, Dry Eye or Corneal Ulcers, as it should have been, it would have added an 
exclusion under the policy for any claims in relation to the eyes, or sight. Which is what it has 
done, based on is consideration of the facts, and the renewal dates of the policy. 
As this is in line with how it would treat other customers in the same situation, I dont require 
it to do anything differently here. And Im satisfied that because of this, when Mr H came to 
claim for problems with Cs left eye in 2021, there was no cover under the policy for eyes, or 
sight. So, I think Red Sands acted fairly here too. 
Mr H has asked whether the fact he didnt make a claim in 2019 makes a difference to the 
outcome here. And, I dont think it does. Mr H could have claimed for the first incident if he 
wished to, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And cover for Cs 
eyes was excluded when he came to claim in March 2021 because it was part of a bi-
lateral condition where the benefit limit had been reached. And because of the exclusion on 
the policy, noting no claims for the eyes and sight would be covered. 
Due to this above, Im satisfied Red Sands has acted fairly in declining the claim.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman