DRN-3436378
The complaint
Miss L complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund her for transactions she 
says she didnt agree to. 
What happened
Miss L has an electronic money account with PayPal. She says in December 2020 she 
noticed a payment had gone out to a merchant which she wasnt expecting. It appeared to 
be for a subscription she thought shed cancelled in 2017. She later found another payment 
for the same amount in 2019.
She complained to PayPal, but they declined to refund her. They said the billing agreement 
with the merchant had been set up in December 2018. Since then Miss L had made a 
number of payments to the merchant that she hadnt disputed. They said the billing 
agreement is between the merchant and the account holder, and Miss L should contact the 
merchant directly.
Miss L referred the complaint to our service, saying she had not agreed to the payments. 
One of our investigators took a look, and asked PayPal if theyd received anything from the 
merchant to show that the payment was for a subscription. PayPal confirmed they had not 
approached the merchant, and declined to do so. They said they had no evidence that the 
account was accessed by a third party.
The investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She felt Miss L had demonstrated that 
she had cancelled the subscription in 2017. She said PayPal hadnt provided enough 
evidence to support that Miss L had agreed to these payments, and as such should be 
treated as unauthorised. As the payments were distance contracts, she though PayPal 
should be liable for them. She asked for the payments to be refunded, and 8% interest 
added from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
PayPal disagreed, saying they had shown evidence Miss L had logged in to her account to 
set up the billing agreement. What this agreement entailed they did not have access to, but 
they said the IP address used had been used for 65 transactions on her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
Firstly, I dont think theres any real dispute that Miss L set up the billing agreement herself  
shes accepted making purchases from the merchant directly and hasnt disputed these. But 
an arrangement like this doesnt mean that all payments taken by the merchant would 
automatically be considered authorised. 
PayPal havent provided any specific information on the goods or services provided by the 
merchant, although both parties seem to believe it is a subscription service. This seems 
likely as both payments were taken exactly a year apart. 
The user agreement for Miss Ls PayPal account say that PayPal cant know what has been 
agreed to with the merchant, or why they have decided to collect payment.
However, the generally accepted industry best practice when considering disputes around 
recurring payments, such as a subscription service, is that there should be enough evidence 
to demonstrate that the consumer has entered into an agreement with the merchant. This 
would include being provided knowledge of the dates and amounts agreed. 
In the event of a dispute over recurring payments I would expect the financial business to 
provide some information to the consumer about what the transaction was for. This would be 
a reasonable course of action.
PayPal have commented that a billing agreement is set up between the consumer and the 
merchant, and they are purely a payment processor. But I also note from their user 
agreement, under the section of reversals, it says We may have to compensate your payer 
when they claimed that there was a problem with their payment (including that their payment 
was unauthorised or incorrect or that their billing agreement payment was not expected).    
This shows me PayPal can carry out investigations into payments made using a billing 
agreement, and that they can be reversed. In this case its unclear why PayPal havent 
requested anything from the merchant. 
Miss L has been consistent in that while she has made use of the merchant, she didnt agree 
to these payments. Nothing Ive seen from PayPal has disputed this central point. 
It doesnt seem likely this was a malicious third-party carrying out the transaction. But I cant 
discount the possibility this may have been an error on the part of the merchant. In any case, 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me these were authorised transactions. As they are 
distance contracts  payments made not in the presence of the merchant  then the relevant 
regulations say Miss L shouldnt be held liable for them. 
On that basis, Im satisfied the fairest outcome would be for PayPal to refund them to Miss L.
My final decision
My final decision is that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must 
refund Miss L the two payment transactions totalling £99.98, and; 
add 8% simple interest from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
If PayPal considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should also give Miss L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman