DRN-3967568
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Ms W holds a motor insurance policy with Aviva. When she was involved in an accident with 
another vehicle, she contacted Aviva to make a claim.
Aviva accepted the claim and based on the circumstances thought Ms W wasnt at fault for 
the accident. Ms W initially wanted her car repaired.
Aviva offered to settle the claim by paying a cash in lieu (CIL) payment of £4,92.25 or have 
the car repaired by one of its approved repairers.
But, while Ms W wanted to keep the car and repair it using her choice of garage, the amount 
offered as a CIL settlement was significantly less that the amount three garages had quoted 
her for the repairs. And less than what an engineers report estimated too.
Ms W complained to Aviva to increase its offer, but Aviva didnt change its stance and 
maintained it acted in line with the policy.
Ms W remained unhappy, so, she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended Aviva write the car off and pay Ms W its market 
value. He said the engineers report that Ms W provided showed that the car was a CAT S 
write off. He also recommended Aviva pay her £350 compensation and reimburse her for the 
cost of the engineers report.
After our investigator issued his opinion on Ms Ws complaint, she let us know that her claim 
was settled directly with the third party, so she didnt want or need Aviva to deal with the 
repairs to her car. But she accepted the remaining compensation our investigator 
recommended.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the report Ms W paid for wasnt needed, and it thought the 
compensation was too high, so, it asked for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Its ultimately Avivas decision whether or not it repairs the car, pays a CIL settlement 
or writes the car off. Thats clear in the policy. But any decision it makes must be fair. 
So, if it does offer a CIL settlement, that amount needs to be reasonable.
Aviva is also not obliged to pay more in a CIL than it would to pay its own repair 
network to carry out the same repair. But it still needs to evidence the amount its own 
repairers would charge would complete an effective repair.
In this case, Im more persuaded by the evidence Ms W has provided. Her estimates 
were much more than what Aviva were offering her, and the engineers report she 
had commissioned also set out costs for repair much higher than what Aviva had put 
forward. 
That report also recommends the car be deemed a CAT S write off. I understand 
Aviva thinks that report wasnt needed. But I disagree. Wed expect strong evidence 
to support any claim, and if Ms W wasnt happy with Avivas offer, both us and Aviva 
would expect her to evidence why. As the third party settled the claim directly too, in 
line with this report, Im more persuaded it was needed, and that it evidenced why 
Avivas offer was unfair. For that reason, I recommend Aviva reimburse Ms W for the 
cost of the report.
Ms W was driving the car but was driving it less and she was worried she was driving 
it unsafe. And as the report shows the car was a CAT S write off, she shouldnt have 
been driving it without it being repaired. That wasnt all within Avivas control and the 
report Ms W commissioned clearly states the car is unroadworthy  so it was her 
choice to drive it knowing this information. But Aviva was the party in the position of 
knowledge in relation to how claims work, and armed with the report, it should have 
either written the car of or explained clearly why it didnt agree with its findings. So, I 
think it contributed to the distress and inconvenience Ms W experienced.
Ultimately, as set out above, Im more persuaded by the evidence provided by Ms W 
than the evidence provided by Aviva. Ms Ws claim has since been paid for directly 
by the third-party insurer, so Aviva need not worry about that. But I do think it should 
have either written off Ms Ws car or provided a comparable engineers report 
countering the one Ms W provided. Because it didnt do this, Ms W has had to do 
much more chasing than would normally be expected and has been without the full 
use of her car for longer than expected too. For that, it should compensate Ms W 
£350.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to:
Reimburse Ms W for the cost she paid for the report upon receipt of the invoice (or 
equivalent) from Ms W showing what she paid and when she paid it.
Pay Ms W £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman