DRN-2857283
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts which meant that he didnt 
have the opportunity to benefit from a Help to Buy ISA.
What happened
Mr F explains that he had an appointment on 27 November 2019 with Barclays to open the 
Help to Buy ISA. He was persuaded to apply to switch his account from another bank too. 
Although he received some documents saying the switch was going ahead he was then 
given a notice of closure of his accounts. And he says he called a number of times to find out 
what was going on. He wants the Help to Buy ISA.
Barclays said it wouldnt be opening any account for Mr F. It said that it had made initial 
checks when he applied. But that it then made further checks and Mr F didnt meet the 
criteria for an account. It said that it had reviewed this decision when Mr F complained. At 
the time of the final response letter Barclays told Mr F that it couldnt locate any record of the 
Help to Buy ISA or funds and asked him to provide any further information so it could look 
into this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He referred to the terms 
and conditions of the account and said that Barclays could decide to close an account or not 
to provide a service. It didnt have to give a specific reason. As it had explained it made a 
number of secondary checks and these included with credit and fraud prevention agencies. 
It had provided a letter saying the accounts would be closed and this covered all the 
accounts. It wasnt going to be possible for the Help to Buy ISA to be opened now. And it 
was unfortunate that Mr F had applied for this close to the deadline of this scheme to new 
applications. Mr F had referred to what could have happened if hed sent money to an 
account that didnt exist, but this wasnt something that did happen.
Mr F didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He remained unhappy about the 
communication about the Help to Buy ISA and that he missed out and that this could have 
been a serious issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Fs frustration at missing out on the Help to Buy ISA especially as this was 
withdrawn for new applicants on 30 November 2019. Im afraid Barclays didnt have to offer 
him this or any other account  that was fairly a matter for its commercial discretion. And I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr F not being able to apply anywhere else  its not as if 
there was a significant delay before he was told he couldnt have the account. And he had 
applied close to the government deadline. 
Barclays has explained to Mr F that it makes a number of checks about the information 
provided in an application and as our investigator has said accesses external databases. I 
have seen the details of its review and I dont consider any error was made.
I know Mr F continued to pursue this, but Barclays had made its position clear on 30 
November 2019. That letter didnt specifically refer to any particular type of account but was 
relating to all accounts. I havent seen any further information from Mr F about the Help to 
Buy ISA application after the final response from Barclays. But from what Ive seen that 
account wasnt opened. And I wont be asking Barclays to open this account now as Mr F 
wants. I also agree with our investigator that we wouldnt look at what could have happened- 
only what did. And I dont have a basis to find that Barclays made a mistake.
I appreciate Mr F will be very disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman