DRN-3737003
The complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt uphold a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Nationwide, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Nationwide have explained that they rejected Ms Fs section 75 claim as she refused to 
allow the merchant an opportunity to repair the boots shed had custom made for her 
daughter. I dont think that was reasonable of Nationwide as by that point it was clear the 
relationship between Ms F and the merchant had broken down and Ms F didnt have to deal 
with the merchant anyway as Nationwide with jointly and severally responsible for the claim.
Im persuaded there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the boots were of 
satisfactory quality.
Ms F was paying a lot of money for the boots and they were custom fitted. I think she could 
have expected them to fit perfectly. The photographs suggest they didnt as there are marks 
on Ms Fs daughters feet. Whilst the independent shoemaker hasnt seen the boots I think 
their desk top appraisal gives more weight to the likelihood the shoes were not wide enough 
and wont wear in. The retailer has suggested the process was rushed as thered usually be 
three fittings and not two. But I dont think it would be fair to suggest that was a reason for 
Ms F to accept boots that didnt fit. 
Nationwide have explained they are happy to go back to the merchant and ask them to 
repair the boots. But they also said that if the merchant refused they would want to arrange 
an independent inspection before taking the claim any further. They didnt respond to our 
investigators suggestion they arrange that inspection through Ms F. 
 
Putting things right
I dont think an independent inspection is necessary here. I think we have enough 
information to suggest the boots are not of satisfactory quality and in those circumstances 
the relevant legislation (the Consumer Rights Act (2015)) allows the business an opportunity 
to repair the goods.
If that repair fails or, as it seems may be the case here, if the merchant refuses to repair the 
goods, I think the best solution would be for Nationwide to arrange to take the boots back (at 
their expense) and to refund the money Ms F spent on the boots adding 8% interest to the 
refund as Ms F has been deprived of the money. The relevant legislation allows them to 
retain some of that money in respect of the usage Ms F has had from the goods. That was 
clearly limited but I think a 5% deduction would be reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Nationwide Building Society 
to:
Liaise with the merchant and Ms F to arrange for the boots to be altered to fit at no 
cost to her.
If the shoes are unable to be altered to fit, and this is evidenced either by
confirmation from the merchant or an in-person inspection from an independent 
expert, Nationwide should in that scenario collect the boots at no cost to Ms F, and 
refund the cost of the boots minus a 5% deduction to take into account the limited 
use of the boots. The credit should be applied to Ms Fs account and the interest 
recalculated as if the transaction didnt take place. If this puts Ms Fs account in credit 
the balance should be refunded to her adding 8% simple interest from the date of 
transaction to the date of settlement.
If the merchant refuses to carry out further alterations, Nationwide should collect the 
boots at no cost to Ms F, and refund the cost of the boots minus a 5% deduction to 
take into account the limited use of the boots. The credit should be applied to Ms Fs 
account and the interest recalculated as if the transaction didnt take place. If this 
puts Ms Fs account in credit the balance should be refunded to her adding 8% 
simple interest from the date of transaction to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman