DRN-2774594
The complaint
Ms C complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) mis-sold her a 
pension policy during a time when she was going through a traumatic divorce and the 
adviser took advantage of this.
What happened
In 2018, Ms C received pension funds from her ex-husband as part of a Pension Sharing 
Order to the value of around £316,000. The funds came from a workplace defined benefit 
(DB) pension scheme which didnt allow Ms C to retain her funds in that scheme. So Ms C 
had to transfer the funds to a different pension plan.
Ms C contacted (TPWM) for advice and, after having discussed her circumstances, they 
issued Ms C with a suitability report. It was recorded that in her own words her goal was:
To ensure that the monies received as part of my recent Pension Sharing Order earn as 
well as possible- initially over the next three and a half years and then into my later 
retirement. I have estimated that a retirement income of £18,000 per annum will be sufficient 
to maintain my standard of living at the time. I expect to take many more holidays and for my 
typical monthly expenditure to increase to approximately £1,400/£1,500 per month. 
Accordingly, my required income will equate to £18,000 or thereabouts. I would like my 
investment to grow over the next little while, until I attain the age of 60 in October 2022, 
when I expect to convert it to a flexible income stream. Ideally, I would like to see the 
investment grow at 5% to 6% per annum.
At the time of the advice Ms C wasnt working and focussing on working on her home to 
increase its value. She was living on her accumulated savings and did not foresee this to 
change in the next few years. 
TPWM assessed both Ms Cs attitude to risk and capacity for loss as low to medium. The 
pension funds from the Pension Sharing Order would provide the bulk of her retirement 
income and so she couldnt afford substantial investment losses. However, she was happy 
to take to take a degree of risk to achieve better long-term returns.
The suitability report said Ms C agreed she best fitted the risk profile of a cautious investor.
TPWM recommended Ms C to create a personal pension on the True Potential Investment 
Platform and invest in a True Potential Cautious+ portfolio. The platform charges were 0.4% 
with aggregated fund charges of 0.88%. The adviser charged 1% of the pension funds for 
the initial advice and 0.5% per year for ongoing advice on the pension. 
The adviser and ongoing charges have since been refunded by TPWM to settle a separate 
complaint Ms C made about their lack of advice and service in 2019 when she tried to make 
a withdrawal from her pension. 
Ms C also informed TPWM in 2019 that she didnt want to continue to use the ongoing 
advice service as she had lost trust in the adviser. She was offered a different adviser at 
TPWM, however this offer wasnt taken up. TPWM stopped being Ms Cs adviser in July 
2019.
Ms C raised a complaint about the sale of her pension in 2018 which is what this decision 
deals with. She feels her pension wasnt invested in line with her attitude to risk and she 
subsequently experienced losses which were too high for a cautious investor. She thinks the 
adviser should have recommended a defensive portfolio and took advantage that she was in 
a vulnerable position and didnt understand the risks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms C says she was in a vulnerable state of mind after her divorce and her 
adviser took advantage of this. However, I cant see any evidence of this.
The adviser had to take reasonable steps to give Ms C a suitable recommendation for her 
pension and I think he did. Ive carefully considered the attitude to risk assessment TPWM 
made and I think theres no dispute that Ms C was a relatively cautious investor. However, 
equally, she was looking to grow her pension as well as possible in the next few years and 
into her retirement when she was looking for a flexible income. 
In order to be able to provide her with the income she required over the course of her 
retirement, I think it was reasonable to invest her funds with some equity exposure. And 
large amounts of her portfolio were invested in lower risk assets. Having looked at the 
recommended portfolio I dont think it exposed to her an unreasonable amount of risk. 
I understand that Ms Cs funds decreased significantly in value in February/March 2020 due 
to the start of the Covid pandemic and the related market volatility. Ms C says she panicked 
and disinvested her funds in March 2020 at a time when markets were really low. She didnt 
reinvest her funds until December 2020 and subsequently lost out on significant recovery of 
the markets during the period she was disinvested.
I have sympathy with Ms C and how she reacted at the time. However, I dont think the 
losses she suffered were the fault of TPWM. The markets crashed and even lower risk 
portfolios suffered unprecedented losses at the time. By disinvesting at the time she did, she 
crystallised these losses. 
Ms C didnt have a financial adviser at the time and she didnt seek advice elsewhere. Again 
I cant hold TPWM responsible for this. Ms C made it clear she didnt want the ongoing 
advice service from TPWM. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman