DRN-3772526
The complaint
Ms W, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had it done so, Morses 
wouldve realised she couldnt afford the loans. 
What happened
Ms W was advanced six home collected loans between April 2014 and March 2017. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 10/04/2014 16/12/2014 34 £5.00
2 £150.00 06/01/2015 08/09/2015 34 £7.50
3 £100.00 08/09/2015 05/04/2016 34 £5.00
4 £200.00 05/04/2016 09/02/2017 33 £10.00
5 £200.00 09/02/2017 15/11/2018 33 £10.00
6 £150.00 16/03/2017 07/02/2019 33 £7.50
Following Ms Ws complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Ms Ws representative then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  3 so he didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint about them. But he thought the 
lending was now harmful for Ms W by the time loans 4 - 6 were granted and so he upheld 
Ms Ws complaint about these loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below.
While Morses acknowledged the value of the loans increased, it still considered the 
amounts lent to be low. 
Loans 5 and 6 were running concurrently, but the value of the payments were low - 
utilising nearly 9% of Ms Ws income. 
Ms W had a good repayment history and she hadnt told Morses of any repayment 
problems. 
Ms Ws representative confirmed it would pass the assessment to Ms W  but no further 
comments have been received. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms W. These factors include:
Ms W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms W.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ws complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms W (nor her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
I would add that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans. So, I say no more about them.
Loan 4 - 6 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms W for details of her income and 
expenditure. However, for loan 4, possibly due to the amount of time that has passed since 
the loan was approved  Morses doesnt have the details of the income and expenditure 
information provided by Ms W. For loans 5 and 6 Ms W declared the same weekly income of £200 and the same weekly 
outgoings of £50. Leaving weekly disposable income of £150 to make her weekly loan 
repayments of no more than £10. 
Based solely on Ms Ws income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
reasonably confident she would be able to afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms W had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Ms Ws finances. For example, by loan 4, it was the second time Ms W returned for 
further borrowing on the same day a previous loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the information 
it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms W. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Ms W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms W had taken out her fourth loan in two years. So Morses ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms W was having to borrow further to 
cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Ms W was generally provided with a new loan on the same day a 
previous loan was repaid and some of the loans were used to fully repay the previous 
one. For example, it seems that some of loan 4 went towards repaying loan 3. To 
me, this is a sign that Ms W was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her 
income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Ws capital amount she borrowed by 
loan 4 was increasing and was now twice as much as loan 1. There was no time 
when her commitment decreased. The fact that these loans were lent in generally a 
consecutive manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent sustainable 
anymore. 
Ms W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 35 months after Ms Ws first loan and was to be repaid over a similar term. 
Her final loan was slightly smaller than loans 4 and 5 but was still 50% larger than 
her first loan.  Ms W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.
These loans, in my mind were clearly unsustainable for Ms W given it took her 11 weeks 
longer to repay loan 4 than the contracted term  yet Morses still advanced loan 5 on the 
same day for the same capital sum. 
It also took Ms W three times as long to repay loans 5 and 6 then contracted  further 
evidence that the loans were unsustainable for her.  I think that Ms W lost out when Morses provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint about loans 4  6 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms W with loans 4, 5 and 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms W the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ws borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms W as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman