DRN-3733008
The complaint
Mr O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly handled two chargeback claims.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr O placed two separate orders on different dates for an item of clothing 
and a pair of sunglasses from an online marketplace. He used his Monzo debit card for both 
purchases. Mr O says that when the item of clothing arrived, he discovered that it wasnt the 
style of clothing hed actually ordered. And when the sunglasses arrived, he found they were 
the wrong size.
Mr O returned both items using the return process provided by the online marketplace and 
used a tracked mail service when doing so. Mr O was upset when the online marketplace 
declined to refund him. It said the retailer had said Mr O had returned items which werent 
the ones that had been sent to him. The retailer had said it had correctly sent the items he 
had ordered and no refunds could be issued until the rights items were sent back.
Mr O made two chargeback claims to Monzo. Monzo raised both claims with Mastercard 
who was the debit card provider. The retailer defended both claims. Mastercard declined 
both chargebacks.
Mr O complained to Monzo that both of his chargebacks had unfairly been declined. Monzo 
didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had offered appropriate support and followed its internal 
procedure and the regulatory guidelines. Monzo explained that chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme which it hadnt been obliged to raise. But on doing so, Mastercard had assessed 
both of Mr Os claims and ruled in favour of the retailer. Monzo said there wasnt sufficient 
evidence that the wrong goods had been delivered and the process had now been 
exhausted.
Mr O was unhappy at Monzos response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said Monzo had passed each 
chargeback claims to Mastercard who had assessed his claims and declined them. Our 
investigator said she didnt think Monzo had acted unfairly.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators view. He said it was unfair that he lost his money. Mr 
O also said that the online marketplace had informed him that the money had been refunded 
and he believed this had been unfairly kept by Monzo.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here is whether Monzo has handled Mr Os claims for 
reimbursement of the cost of the two items he says were wrongly supplied and returned 
by him. Ive seen that the retailer defended his chargeback claims and said Mr O had 
received the correct items hed ordered but had actually returned different ones.
When Mr O made his claims to Monzo, it used the chargeback scheme to seek 
reimbursement of the costs of the items. Chargeback is a process that involves the card 
issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme 
operated by the companies which run the card networks, here thats MasterCard. It allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or 
services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up.
If Monzo had felt that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So, Monzo wasnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concluded that the 
chances of success would be remote. Here, Monzo asked Mr O for evidence about 
what he had ordered, what had been delivered and returned and had decided to a 
raise two chargeback claims for Mr O.  It was Mastercard which then assessed these 
claims and found in favour of the retailer.
So, looking at Monzos actions Im satisfied that it didnt act unfairly taking Mr Os claims 
forward. It requested the required evidence and put forward what Mr O provided together 
with his claims for assessment by Mastercard. This was in accordance with the scheme 
rules. It hadnt been Monzos decision to decline the claims. I dont think there was more 
Monzo could have done.
Mr O says he was later told by the online marketplace that refunds had been made for both 
items, but these funds had been kept by Monzo. Monzo disputes this and says that although 
at the start of Mr Os chargeback claims the money would have been deducted from the 
retailer while the claim was considered, it wasnt returned to Monzo but actually held in a 
separate account. It explained this is the set process when chargeback claims are raised. 
Once the claim has been considered the funds are either returned directly to the consumer 
or passed to the retailer depending on the result of the chargeback claim. Monzo has 
provided screenshots showing that both of the dispute balances are zero meaning that the 
funds had been re-presented to the retailer. Monzo said it didnt challenge this re-
presentation as Mr Os chargeback claims had been declined.
Looking at the evidence that Mr O has presented to support his assertion that the funds had 
actually been refunded but not passed to him, Im unclear why the retailer has said refunds 
for both of these items had been issued in January 2022 as this would have been before the 
chargeback claims had been considered by Mastercard. And Ive seen that the retailer had 
defended both of these claims with Mastercard which wouldnt fit with it agreeing refunds. 
Ive also seen that Mr O says no credit for either of those items had been recorded on his 
account with the online marketplace which I would have expected had this occurred. 
I think the most likely thing to have happened in respect of these funds was that the retailer 
had been confused by the payments having been debited during the chargeback claim 
process. And I dont think its likely that the money was reimbursed to Monzo and it then 
failed to reimburse it to Mr O. Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that Mr Os two 
chargeback claims were declined, and the money was then passed to the retailer.For the reasons set out, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr O. Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman