DRN-2517920
The complaint
Mr B complains about the excess mileage charge that has been applied by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited when it accepted his rejection of a car that had been supplied to him 
under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
A nearly new car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services that he electronically signed in March 2020. He complained to BMW 
Financial Services about some issues with the cars brakes and it agreed in December 2020 
to accept his rejection of the car. It said that it would refund his deposit of £3,564.60 less an 
excess mileage charge of £288.37. 
Mr B didnt agree to pay an excess mileage charge so complained to this service. Our 
investigator thought that Mr Bs monthly repayments reflected the fair usage of the car so 
she didnt think it was reasonable for BMW Financial Services to charge him for excess 
mileage. She recommended that it should refund the excess mileage charge of £288.37 to 
Mr B.
BMW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that Mr B agreed to a maximum annual mileage of 10,000 miles (approximately 833 
miles each month) and the car was rejected after approximately 8 months  so on a pro-rata 
basis it would expect the car to have completed 6,666 miles but it had completed 9,200 
miles. So it says that its charged Mr B an excess mileage charge which was deducted from 
his deposit. It says that if Mr B had completed less than the contractual mileage allowance, 
on a pro-rata basis, it would have provided him with a pro-rata refund of his monthly 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BMW Financial Services agreed that Mr B could reject the car because of issues with 
its brakes;
those issues will have impacted his use and enjoyment of the car and will have 
caused him distress and inconvenience;
Mr B has made the monthly payments under the agreement for his use of the car - 
hes driven more than the annual mileage limit on a pro-rata basis but the car has 
been rejected after only about eight months because of the issues with its brakes; 
and
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial 
Services to charge Mr B £288.37 for excess mileage so I find that it should refund 
that amount to him.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial Services 
to pay £288.37 to Mr B to refund him for the excess mileage charge that its deducted from 
the deposit that it refunded to him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay £288.37 to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman