DRN-3773509
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under his home 
insurance policy. Mr Ss complaint is about how Ageas handled a claim for damage to his 
property in bad weather.
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Ss property suffered damage during bad weather. A fibreglass cover 
was damaged as well as tiles dislodged from the roof. Mr S contacted Ageas to lodge a 
claim. Ageas treated the claim as storm damage (given the weather conditions at the time of 
the incident) and appointed a project manager (P) to handle the claim. A surveyor visited to 
validate the damage and a contractor was appointed to assess the damage and the repair 
work needed. 
However, Mr S became concerned at the time it was taking for progress to be made, and 
that he hadnt heard from the contractor. He was also concerned at further damage being 
caused inside the property from being exposed to the elements. Given what he saw as a 
lack of progress, Mr S approached his own contractor to obtain an estimate for the repairs, 
which Ageas agreed to then validate. Mr S obtained two estimates (one for £11,000 and 
another for £7,500 - to replace the whole roof) which he sent to Ageas.
 
Ageas considered the estimate, but their contractor said there was pre-existing damage to 
Mr Ss roof. This meant they couldnt guarantee any repair work they would carry out, so 
wouldnt carry out the repairs. Because of this, Ageas decided to offer Mr S a cash 
settlement to cover the damage. The cash settlement would only cover the damage caused 
in the incident (not the whole roof or any pre-existing damage). They offered £3,498 as a 
cash settlement. Of this figure, £1,965 was for the estimated cost of the damage to the roof, 
with the balance (£1,533) being for internal damage. A policy excess of £150 would be 
deducted from the figure, leaving a net cash settlement figure of £3,348.
However, Mr S wanted the repairs to be carried out by Ageass contractor. Ageas said that 
wasnt possible given the concerns about the pre-existing damage and the contractor not 
being able to guarantee the work. Unhappy at Ageass position, as well as the delays, Mr S 
complained to Ageas. 
In their final response they upheld the complaint, apologising for not providing him with the 
level of service he had expected, as he hadnt been contacted as hed been told he would on 
several occasions. They awarded £150 compensation for the inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr S then complained to this service. He was unhappy at the service hed received from 
Ageas in handling his claim, including them not arranging for a temporary repair to his roof 
not receiving calls when promised. He was also unhappy at being offered (what he 
considered) a small cash settlement, because Ageas couldnt guarantee a repair due to what 
they said was the poor condition of the roof. He wanted Ageas to complete the repair to the 
roof and apologise for the time taken to assess the claim and repairs to be made. He was 
also unhappy that Ageas hadnt considered the [cost of] internal damage to the property.
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions when making their cash settlement offer. She also thought it allowed for both the 
repair to the roof and the internal damage. But she thought there had been delays between 
the claim being made (November 2021) and the property being inspected (January 2022). 
And Mr S had to chase Ageas for updates on progress with the claim. She thought Ageas 
should pay Mr S a further £150 for the inconvenience hed suffered, in addition to the £150 
theyd awarded (so making a total of £300).
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think Ageass cash settlement offer was sufficient to cover the damage 
to his property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issues in Mr Ss complaint are, firstly, the cash settlement Ageas have 
offered to settle his claim for damage to his property. Mr S says it isnt sufficient (and 
that he wants Ageas to repair the damage). He also says the settlement offer doesnt 
cover the internal damage to the property. Ageas say the offer is in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and covers both the external damage to the roof and the internal 
damage. They say the condition of the roof means they wouldnt be able to carry out 
a repair to the roof that they (their contractor) could guarantee. Which is why they 
have offered a cash settlement for the claim. 
Ive considered this issue carefully. While I can understand Mr S wanting Ageas to 
appoint contractors to repair the roof, in the circumstances where the contractor 
couldnt guarantee the repair work because of pre-existing issues with the roof, I think 
it was reasonable for Ageas to offer a cash settlement. The terms and conditions of 
the policy provide for this option and for Ageas to decide how to settle a claim. As well 
as Ageass contractor view about the condition of the roof and the pre-existing issues, 
Ive noted the estimate from the contractor engaged by Mr S quotes for a new roof, 
mentioning that the roof is some 61 years old. This would be consistent with Ageass 
contractor view about existing issues (which are elaborated on in the Ageas case 
notes).  
Ive also considered the basis for the cash settlement offered. From correspondence 
Ive seen between Ageas and Mr S, the figure of £1,965 for roof repairs comes from 
an estimate provided by a contractor engaged by Mr S. It covers the repairs only to 
the section of roof damaged  not to replace the whole roof. Given the issues 
identified with the roof (as well as it being reasonable for Ageas to only cover the cost 
of repairing that part of the roof damaged in the incident) then Ive concluded the 
element of the cash settlement for repair of the roof was fair and reasonable.
The balance of the cash settlement (£1,533) was in respect of the internal damage to 
the property. While I havent seen a specific breakdown of what exactly this covers, 
from the information and evidence available (including the case notes from Ageas) it 
would be consistent with the nature of the damage being water ingress following the 
damage to the roof (theres reference to ceiling staining). And Ive not seen any 
evidence from Mr S that sets out the interior damage or an independent estimate of the cost to repair the damage. So Ive concluded, on the available evidence, that 
Ageas have acted fairly in this element of the cash settlement.
The second key issue is how Ageas have handled the claim, including the time taken 
and how theyve communicated with Mr S. Mr S is unhappy at the service from Ageas 
in handling his claim, including not arranging for a temporary repair to his roof nor 
receiving calls when promised. And the time taken for the claim to be progressed. 
Ageas acknowledge there were some delays and have offered Mr S £150 in 
compensation for inconvenience.
Ive considered both views, together with the evidence and information available. 
Looking at the sequence of events, Ageas instructed P as soon as Mr S contacted 
them to report the damage and lodge a claim. However, progress on the claim was 
slow, and Ageass case notes indicate Mr Ss unhappiness at the delays as well as 
the lack of contact he had from Ageas and (in particular) their contractor. The case 
notes also record Ageas apologising to Mr S for his not getting calls back when 
expected. Overall, it took over two months from the date of the incident to get to the 
position where Ageas offered a cash settlement. 
On the issue of a temporary repair to the roof, Ageass case notes indicate they told 
Mr S he could arrange for a temporary repair when he first told them of the incident. 
They subsequently confirmed the offer and that if he engaged a local contractor and 
sent the invoice to them to be paid (or obtain a quote for Ageas to approve) then they 
would pay for the cost. I appreciate what Mr S has told us about his financial 
circumstances and not being able to pay (upfront) for a temporary repair, but I think 
Ageass offer was fair.
Taking all these points into account. And thinking about what happened, the delays 
and lack of communication, I agree Mr S suffered distress and inconvenience. While 
Ageas accept this and have offered £150 compensation, I dont think thats sufficient 
given what happened and the impact it had on Mr S. Taking account of all the 
circumstances, I think £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman