DRN-2711073
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Mattioli Woods PLC (MW) has administered his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2012, Mr Hs occupational pension was transferred into an Essential SIPP which was 
operated by Stadia Trustees Limited (STL). The funds were invested into a Store First 
investment. Unfortunately, the investment performed badly and Mr H made significant 
losses, although Mr H says that STL was still able to collect rents from the Store First 
investment on his behalf.
Subsequently, in 2016, STL decided to stop acting as a scheme administrator for its SIPP 
schemes  which meant it would no longer administer Mr Hs Essential SIPP. STL wrote to 
Mr H in February 2016 to offer him two options. The first was a default option to move to a 
holding SIPP with MW, which attracted an annual fee of £200 plus VAT. Or Mr H could move 
to a SIPP provider of his own choice.
Mr H signed an agreement to move to the MW holding SIPP and this transfer happened in 
March 2016. Following the transfer, MW decided that the most appropriate SIPP for Mr Hs 
investment was its City Personal Pension SIPP. Thats because it contained an active asset. 
This type of SIPP attracted an annual fee of £690, plus VAT. Mr H agreed to transfer into the 
City Personal Pension SIPP.
Separately, Mr H made a complaint about STL to our service. In brief, our adjudicator upheld 
Mr Hs complaint as she didnt think STL had carried out sufficient due diligence on Mr Hs 
investment before accepting the business. She recommended that STL should pay Mr H 
financial compensation and she also recommended that STL should buy the Store First 
investment at a fair price, to allow Mr H to transfer away from the SIPP without incurring 
further annual SIPP fees. However, STL later went into default and it didnt pay Mr H the 
compensation our adjudicator had recommended. Instead, Mr Hs complaint was later 
considered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which awarded Mr H 
its maximum compensation amount of £50,000.
STL had provided MW with a Power of Attorney in order for it to collect rents from the Store 
First investment, as it had previously done. However, once STL went into default, the Power 
of Attorney was no longer valid. This meant that MW wasnt able to legally re-register the 
asset and therefore wasnt able to collect rents from the investment on Mr Hs behalf until a 
new Power of Attorney was granted by STLs liquidators. This was finally granted in May 
2020. At this point, MW was able to collect rents on Mr Hs behalf and these were paid into 
his SIPP.
Mr H was unhappy with MWs administration of his SIPP. In summary, he was unhappy that 
it wasnt collecting rents on his behalf as STL had previously done and so he felt it hadnt 
entered into a valid contract with him. He considered that MW ought to be bound by the 
adjudicators previous recommendations in respect of STL. He didnt think it was fair for MW 
to charge annual fees when he wasnt being paid any rents and he said the amount of these 
fees hadnt been made clear each year. He said MW hadnt assisted the FSCS with its 
investigations into his complaint about STL. And he later complained that he wanted to close 
the SIPP and withdraw all of the funds to enable him to fund a property purchase, but he 
said MW wouldnt allow him to do so. He told us that MWs administration of his SIPP had 
caused him and his family significant upset and financial difficulty. He asked us to look into 
his complaint about MW.
MW agreed to suppress its annual fees while it was unable to collect rents and while Mr Hs 
SIPP had been illiquid. It made it clear that it wouldnt pursue Mr H for these fees outside of 
the SIPP. However, it maintained that given the amount of work itd carried out on Mr Hs 
SIPP, the fees would be due. It told Mr H that it hadnt been in a position to collect the Store 
First rents until the re-registration had been completed. It accepted that Mr H was unhappy 
with the way it had administered his SIPP and it said that if Mr H wished to transfer his 
investment to a new provider, it would waive its transfer out fees. MW also said that the 
SIPP couldnt be closed, as Mr Hs Store First storepod was still tenanted and receiving 
rents. It said that Mr H could buy the storepod personally or sell it to a third party. 
In terms of Mr H taking benefits from his pension, MW said that as the funds were currently 
uncrystallised, he could drawdown up to 25% tax-free cash of the schemes value in line with 
his lifetime allowance, with the remaining 75% being designated for drawdown payments. 
Given the difficulty in valuing Mr Hs investment, it said it wouldnt require a full valuation, it 
would simply value the investment at nil for the purposes of the benefit crystallisation event. 
It said when the investment achieves a value, it can recalculate the fund split to ensure that 
Mr H didnt lose out on any tax free payment. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he explained that 
MW wasnt responsible for STLs actions and therefore, it wasnt responsible for paying the 
redress our adjudicator had previously recommended. He felt MW had provided a 
reasonable explanation as to why it hadnt been in a position to collect Mr Hs rents for some 
time. And he thought that even if Mr H had opted to move from STL to a new provider in 
2016, that new provider wouldve encountered similar difficulties in re-registering the asset 
and collecting rents. The investigator was satisfied that Mr H had been made aware of what 
the annual SIPP fees would be when he agreed to enter the City Private Pension. He felt 
that MW had responded to the FSCS in a timely way.
And having considered the specific evidence MW had provided about the work itd carried 
out in relation to Mr Hs SIPP, in these circumstances, he concluded it was fair for it to apply 
its annual fee in line with the charging structure. He was also persuaded that MW had 
provided a clear explanation as to why it couldnt simply close Mr Hs SIPP and that it had 
given him reasonable information about what steps he needed to take.
Mr H didnt agree and Ive summarised his detailed responses to our investigator:
In 2016, MW had promised him a smooth transition from STL to its own SIPP. But 
MW didnt have an agreement at this point to collect his rental incomes from the 
Store First investment and itd hidden this fact from him. If hed been aware of this 
fact, hed never have agreed to transfer his SIPP to MW and therefore, there wasnt 
a valid contract in place;
MW had previously stated that no SIPP fees would be applied to his account and itd 
now reneged on this statement. He didnt think it was fair or reasonable for MW to 
charge these fees when it hadnt been collecting Mr Hs rents;
MW had indicated that it would follow the adjudicators recommendations in relation 
to STL;Until recently, he hadnt been able to take his 25% tax-free allowance. The net effect 
of this was that hed had to take out high-cost credit loans.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think MW has treated him fairly and so 
Im not directing to it do anything more. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr H and MW that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and both parties detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all both 
parties have said and sent us. In making my decision though, I wont comment on each and 
every point the parties have made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, this decision 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.
Is MW responsible for STLs actions?
Mr H feels strongly that MW should fulfil the recommendations our adjudicator made when 
she assessed Mr Hs complaint about STLs actions in June 2016. Its clear that Mr H lost a 
great deal of money as a result of his investment into Store First and our adjudicator found 
that STL hadnt met its regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due diligence when it 
accepted the business. I acknowledge the impact this situation has had on Mr H and I 
sympathise with his position. 
However, MW is an entirely separate financial business and legal entity to STL. MW was 
asked by the industry regulator to administer STLs SIPP assets. It isnt responsible for any 
of the actions STL carried out and Ive seen no evidence that MW agreed to take 
responsibility for STLs acts or omissions when it agreed to administer its SIPP business. 
This means that MW isnt responsible for paying Mr H the redress the adjudicator 
recommended or carrying out any of the other actions she proposed. 
Did MW unreasonably delay the collection of Mr Hs storepod rents?
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that STL was able to collect the ground rents from Mr Hs 
investment while it was operating his SIPP. Its also apparent that once the SIPP was 
transferred to MW, it wasnt in a position to collect rents until July 2020. Thats because until 
MW had re-registered the assets, it wasnt entitled to collect any of the rents on Mr Hs 
behalf. I dont doubt how frustrating this was for Mr H, as he was aware that rents due to him 
werent being paid into his SIPP. So Ive considered whether this delay was down to any 
unreasonable actions on MWs behalf.
Our investigator asked MW to explain what actions it had taken in relation to the re-
registration of Mr Hs assets. MW provided a detailed timeline, which the investigator set out 
in his assessment of the complaint. As both parties have seen this timeline, Im not going to 
repeat it here. What is clear is that since the transfer from STL to MW took place, MW has 
been working to re-register the assets. Part of the delay was down to MW not being able to 
access STLs records once the transfer had taken place. There were some attempts to sell 
storepods at auction, but auctioneers later decided not to go ahead with auction sales of 
these assets.
However, the majority of the delay, which broadly spanned a two-year period, followed the placing of STL into default and the winding-up of its assets. At this point, the Power of 
Attorney itd previously granted MW was no longer valid. MW was working with both the 
liquidator and the industry regulator to try and resolve the matter during 2019 and it wasnt 
until May 2020 that the liquidator company granted MW a new Power of Attorney. At this 
point, the Official Receiver agreed to release the rent monies to MW and rents were received 
in June 2020.
From the evidence Ive seen, MW was actively engaged with the relevant parties between 
March 2016, when Mr Hs SIPP was transferred to it until rents were received in June 2020. 
Initially, STL doesnt seem to have cooperated with MW fully. And once STL was placed in 
default and had to be wound-up, the matter was broadly out of MWs hands until the 
liquidator provided it with a new Power of Attorney and the Official Receiver consented to the 
release of the funds. I think MW took fair and appropriate steps to try and move this matter 
forwards so far as it was able and to work with the relevant parties to reach a positive 
outcome. 
In my view, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold MW responsible for the actions of 
third-parties when all parties were dealing with a complex, legal matter. This means I dont 
find that MW was responsible for the delays in Mr Hs rents being collected. Indeed, once the 
Power of Attorney was granted in May 2020, rental proceeds were collected the following 
month. This indicates to me that it was MWs unavoidable reliance on the necessary actions 
of third parties that led to the unfortunate delays in rent payments. 
Mr H strongly feels that at the outset, MW misled him into agreeing to transfer his existing 
arrangements into one of its SIPPs. He says he was told the transfer would be a smooth 
transition and that hed never have agreed to transfer to MW had he known it couldnt collect 
his rents.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Ive looked closely at the letter STL sent Mr H in 
February 2016. The letter says:
Mattioli Woods are working closely with us in order to transfer clients and we have worked 
together to build a process that is as streamlined as possible.
Theres no guarantee that MW would be able to collect rents from the storepods, although I 
can understand why Mr H wouldve expected MW to be able to carry out the activities STL 
had previously done. But Ive borne in mind that when MW agreed to take over the 
administration of STLs SIPP business, it couldnt reasonably have foreseen the nature and 
range of the difficulties it would encounter. Or that it would need to engage with the range of 
third parties Ive set out above.
And it seems to me that whilst Mr H says he wouldve transferred his SIPP to a different 
provider, this wouldnt have led to him being in a position to access his rents any more 
quickly. I say that firstly because given the illiquidity of Mr Hs assets at the time of the 
transfer in March 2016, I think its less likely that another SIPP provider wouldve agreed to 
accept Mr Hs SIPP. And even if it had, in my view, given STL was placed in default, its 
more likely than not that any other SIPP provider wouldve faced the same legal and 
documentary hurdles in the investment assets being re-registered to them. 
Overall then, I dont think MW misled Mr H into agreeing to transfer his SIPP to it.
Did MW delay in engaging with the FSCS?I can see that it took some time for the FSCS to look into Mr Hs concerns about STL and to 
pay redress. I accept this mustve been frustrating for Mr H, especially after hed already 
complained to our service about STL.
But the FSCS wasnt investigating a complaint about MW. It simply asked MW for some 
information to help it carry out this investigation. And the evidence Ive seen shows that the 
FSCS asked for information on 20 November 2017, which MW provided seven days later. As 
such then, Im persuaded that MW handled the request very promptly and assisted the 
FSCS in its investigation as far as it could.
Did MW disclose the annual fees?
Mr H says that MW didnt disclose its annual fees to him in breach of regulatory obligations. 
Ive seen copies of the invoices which were sent to Mr H on 30 June 2016, setting out the 
2016-17 annual fee and on 30 April 2017, setting out Mr Hs fees between May 2017 and 
April 2018. In both cases, the fee is clearly expressed. 
I acknowledge that fee invoices werent raised after April 2017. Thats because MW had 
agreed with Mr H that it would suppress the fees until the outcome of a legal claim he had 
made was known. It made clear though that fees would continue to be raised annually.
Taking this evidence together, Im satisfied that MW did disclose the level of annual fees to 
Mr H and made him sufficiently aware that while it had placed the charging of fees on-hold, 
these would remain payable following the outcome of his legal claim.
Has MW applied the annual fees fairly and reasonably?
Principle six of the regulators Principles for Business say that financial businesses must pay 
due regard to the interests of their customers and treat them fairly. Ive considered then 
whether Im satisfied that MW has met this obligation.
Initially, when Mr H first agreed to transfer into the Holding SIPP, he was told that hed 
attract fees of £200 per year, plus VAT. At this point, MW understood that Mr Hs asset held 
no value. However, once it realised that Mr Hs investment did have a value, it wrote to him 
in May 2016 to confirm that instead, his investment would be re-registered to a City Private 
Pension, which attracted an annual fee of £690 plus VAT. The letter gave Mr H the option to 
transfer to another SIPP provider. Given Mr Hs asset wasnt inactive and given it was 
generating an income, I dont find MWs decision on this point to be unfair. I also need to 
bear in mind that Mr H seems to have accepted this transfer. And I think the level of fees 
was made sufficiently clear.
It's clear that MW took over Mr Hs SIPP at a time when the Store First investment was 
already in difficulty. I also appreciate Mr H is in a difficult situation financially, so I understand 
how frustrating it must be to be charged fees for an asset he considers has little value. But I 
need to balance those considerations against the fact that MW is a commercial business and 
there is a cost to it in providing administration of the SIPP. With that said, the fees MW levy 
upon Mr H must be fair.
I understand there are a number of tasks and responsibilities that may be required to be
carried in relation to the administration of a SIPP. In this particular case, MW has provided 
us with evidence of just some of the work it has carried out in relation to Mr Hs SIPP  
particularly in regard to the re-registration of the asset. It hasnt included much of the 
detailed correspondence its had with Mr H since it took over operation of the SIPP within 
this cost breakdown, but I can see that MW has been in regular communication with Mr H over a number of years. This was both in regard to the rental income, but also in actively 
trying to assist him to either close the SIPP or access his funds.
Given the evidence Ive been provided with, on the specific facts of this case, I am satisfied 
that MW has carried out significant work on Mr Hs SIPP. And so I find that in these 
particular circumstances, its fair and reasonable for MW to charge Mr H fees for each year 
since it took over the SIPP.
Closure of the SIPP
Mr H has told us that hed like to close down the SIPP and draw out the funds to purchase a 
property. I can entirely understand why Mr H would like to close the SIPP and I appreciate 
that hes in a difficult position.
However, as Ive set out above, MW says that at the current time, this simply isnt possible. 
Presently, as Mr H wasnt compensated for his full losses by the FSCS, hes entitled to 
continue to receive rental returns for the value of his remaining loss. As the storepod is 
tenanted and rent is received, its still assigned to the SIPP. The SIPP cant be closed until 
the asset is sold or reassigned. In this case, MW has previously discussed the potential of 
Mr H buying the storepod or a third party doing so with Mr H.
MW has explained that as the scheme is uncrystallised, Mr H is entitled to take up to 25% of 
the schemes value tax-free up to his lifetime allowance and leave the remaining 75% for 
drawdown. It isnt currently requiring a valuation in order to make such a lump sum payment 
to Mr H, although its said that once the pods do realise a value, it can recalculate the fund 
split to make sure Mr H doesnt lose out on his tax-free amount.
In my view, MW has provided clear and persuasive reasons why the SIPP cant be closed. It 
also seems to discussed with Mr H potential options which are available to him. It seems to 
be taking a pragmatic and reasonable approach to enabling Mr H to take a tax-free lump 
sum of 25% of the scheme value at this point. And its made clear that it wishes to help Mr H 
move forwards and resolve things fairly.
As such then, I think MW has taken reasonable steps to try and help Mr H and Id add that 
Id expect it to continue to do so. But given the position Ive outlined; MW simply isnt in a 
position to close Mr Hs SIPP at this point.
Summary
I do have a lot of sympathy for the position in which Mr H finds himself. Hes lost out on his 
pension funds through no fault of his own and he wasnt able to receive rental income for a 
few years. But for the reasons Ive set out, I simply dont think MW has unfairly administered 
Mr Hs SIPP or unfairly charged him SIPP fees. And so Im not telling MW to do anything 
more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman