DRN-3607728
The complaint
Mr C complains that an error made by I Go 4 Ltd led to his not being covered by the motor 
insurance policy hed bought through it. 
What happened
I Go 4 sent Mr C a renewal invitation in May 2021. On 1 June 2021 it emailed him to say his 
policy would lapse on 18 June 2021. On that date, it sent a further email to say it would 
lapse that day. Mr C called immediately to accept the renewal quote. I Go 4 sent a further 
email to him on 19 June 2021 saying the policy had lapsed, but Mr C says he didnt see it. In 
October 2021 he was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. His car was seized 
and he was required to pay a fine and accept penalty points on his licence or attend court. 
Shortly afterwards, I Go 4 found that thered been an error on its part. It refunded the 
impound charge Mr C had paid the police, plus the cost of the temporary insurance hed had 
to buy. It also asked the insurer to backdate Mr Cs cover and provide a letter of indemnity, 
which it did. I Go 4 said that to compensate Mr C for distress and inconvenience it would 
charge him only half the cost of the policy, so Mr C got a reduction of £118.47. But he 
thought I Go 4 hadnt compensated him enough for the inconvenience and upset hed faced.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He thought I Go 4 should pay Mr C a 
further £150 for distress and inconvenience, especially given the upset caused to Mr C by 
being stopped by the police and being left stranded miles from home. But I Go 4 said Mr C 
should take some responsibility for what happened, given that it had emailed him to say the 
policy had lapsed. It said the total of £218.47 proposed by the investigator was a very 
specific sum that was higher than wed awarded in the past for similar cases. It asked for a 
review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the fact that - due to the error on I Go 4s part - the insurance Mr C 
had accepted and believed he was covered by wasnt in place. I Go 4 tried to put matters 
right by refunding the impound charge and the cost of the temporary cover Mr C had to buy. 
I think that was fair, as he only incurred those expenses as a result of its error. But I dont 
think the reduction of £118.47 offered by I Go 4 on the cost of his insurance was sufficient to 
compensate him for the significant distress and inconvenience hed faced.
Mr C told us he was humiliated and distressed to be stopped by the police and charged with 
having no insurance, when he had every reason to believe that he was covered. I think most 
consumers would find being confronted by the police in these circumstances an alarming 
and stressful experience. Mr C was then left on the roadside, miles from home. He had the 
inconvenience of getting other insurance, collecting his car and liaising with I Go 4 about 
what had happened, all with the threat of a fine, penalty points or court hanging over him. 
I dont think a further £150 on top of the £118.47 reduction in the cost of Mr Cs policy is by 
any means an excessive sum in compensation, considering the effect of I Go 4s error on Mr 
C. It amounts to £268.47 in total. Thats only a more specific sum than is usual because of 
the precise reduction I Go 4 made in the cost of cover. I think the overall sum falls within the 
range of compensation normally awarded by us in similar cases  but as I Go 4 has 
acknowledged, each case is treated on its own merits. 
Ive noted I Go 4s point that Mr C should have noted the email it sent informing him that the 
policy had lapsed. He says he didnt see it (although I think he should have done, as it was 
sent to the correct email address). But in my opinion, an average consumer who noted the 
message - but had renewed the policy the day before - might reasonably conclude that it 
was sent in error. So I dont think Mr C would have acted differently had he seen the email  
and the fact remains that I Go 4 made a major error in not ensuring that he was insured.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require I Go 4 Ltd to pay him a further 
£150 for distress and inconvenience (£268.47 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman