DRN-2909949
The complaint
Mrs W complains about delays and poor service by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post 
Office Financial Services after she paid in a cheque. 
  
What happened
In the middle of December 2020 Mrs W paid a cheque for £3,000 into her savings account 
over the counter in a Post Office branch. The cheque wasnt processed correctly and was 
ultimately lost. 
A week after Mrs W paid in the cheque she contacted Bank of Ireland and asked for help 
tracing the cheque. A week after that, Bank of Ireland sent Mrs W a letter and asked for the 
Post Office counter receipt for her cheque. Bank of Ireland received Mrs Ws receipt and at 
the end of January the Post Office advised the cheque had been sent for processing. Bank 
of Ireland later asked Mrs W to contact the party whod given her the cheque to find out if it 
had been cashed. 
Mrs W has told us the cheque was from a charity and due to the impact of Covid restrictions 
it wasnt possible to contact it. Mrs W says when she was able to speak with the charity it 
confirmed the cheque hadnt been cashed and sent her a replacement. The replacement 
cheque was received around nine weeks after Mrs W paid in the original. 
Mrs W has told us she made numerous phone calls to both Bank of Ireland and the charity 
over the course of several weeks to try and find out what had happened to the cheque. 
Mrs W has also said she was given confusing information, not contacted by Bank of Ireland 
as promised and wasnt kept informed. 
Mrs W complained and Bank of Ireland apologised and paid her £150. Mrs W referred her 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They recommended Bank of 
Ireland increase the settlement to £300 to take into account the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs W. Bank of Ireland asked to appeal and said it felt its existing offer was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland has apologised that the cheque Mrs W paid in via a Post Office branch was 
lost when sent for processing. Im pleased Mrs W was able to obtain a replacement cheque 
and hasnt lost out as a result. 
Our investigator didnt think £150 fairly reflected how the loss of the cheque impacted       
Mrs W. They noted it had taken nine weeks for the situation to be resolved. Mrs W has told 
us she needed the funds to pay for veterinary treatment and found the delays stressful. 
Mrs W has also explained she offered to send Bank of Ireland the counter receipt during her 
first call but it took several weeks from that point for it to be requested. In addition, Mrs W 
has told us she found the process of trying to find out what had happened very difficult as 
she was given contradictory information by different members of staff and wasnt called back 
or written to as promised. 
Mrs W has explained that contacting the charity for a replacement cheque was difficult 
because its operating hours had changed due to the national lockdown. 
Bank of Ireland responded has said Mrs W couldve used other funds to pay for the 
veterinary treatment, and I take its point. But I agree with the investigator that the existing 
settlement isnt a fair way to resolve Mrs Ws complaint. I can see the loss of Mrs Ws 
cheque took a long time to fully resolve. The sums involved are substantial and Mrs W was 
clearly upset. It took Mrs Ws involvement and numerous phone calls to find out that the 
original cheque hadnt been cashed and arrange for a replacement to be sent. I agree with 
the investigators recommendation that Bank of Ireland increase the settlement to £300. In 
my view, that figure more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mrs W. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as 
Post Office Financial Services to pay Mrs W a total of £300 (less any compensation already 
paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman