DRN-2990500
The complaint
Mr M complains of issues when changing his address with Jaja Finance Ltd and how they
have handled his complaint.
What happened
Mr M says he received a message from his credit card provider stating that Jaja would be
taking over the running of his credit card and he would need a new Jaja credit card as his
existing credit card would cease to work. Mr M noticed that Jaja held a previous address for
him so he says he contacted Jaja by phone to update the address as he was worried the
new card would be sent to his old address.
Mr M said that the call handler had said his address had been changed to his new address
before he gave Jaja his new address which left him concerned that his change of address
would not be actioned correctly. Mr M says he checked his account after the call and it still
displayed his old address.
Mr M tried to contact Jaja several times by phone over the following week but he was unable
to be connected to a call agent to speak to. He says out of desperation he tried to contact
Jajas press office to resolve this and he asked for them to raise a formal complaint. Mr M
says he had no response to this, so he contacted Jaja through a social media account. Mr M
says he had no communication about his complaint until more than a month after he
attempted to raise the complaint.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. During our investigation, Jaja issued a final
response letter to Mr Ms complaint. They said they were partially upholding his complaint
due to the customer service he had and credited £50 to his account. But Jaja said they could
find no evidence of Mr M speaking to a call agent on any occasion for the past one year to
amend his address. They explained that as Mr M wanted the verification of his address
completing via email then they needed identification from him first to ensure that he was the
account holder who was eligible to change the address. Jaja also apologised to Mr M for
trying to contact him during the day to complete security protocols with him even though he
had explained to Jaja that he works between 9-5 and could not take calls at work.
Mr M did not agree with Jajas response to his complaint, so he wanted us to continue our
investigation. He also said that he had issues with a Subject Access Request (SAR) he had
submitted to Jaja. Our investigator said she felt the compensation of £50 that Jaja credited
Mr Ms account was fair. She did not uphold the complaint as she said that Jaja confirmed
the replacement credit card was sent on 12 November 2020 but Mr M moved address in
September 2020. So even if his address had been updated when he says he spoke to Jaja
on the phone, then this would have been after the replacement card had already been sent
out.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that although his call logs showed that he was on the
phone to Jaja for 14 minutes on 20 November and 20 minutes on 21 November 2020, his
calls did not go through to a customer service agent. Our investigator explained that under
our rules, we can only consider a complaint about regulated activities or activities that are
ancillary to a regulated activity so we cant comment on his issues with the SAR. Mr M did
not agree with the investigators view of his complaint, so he asked for an Ombudsman to
review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to both Jaja and this service and Ive considered and
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr M that complaint handling by a business and how a business responds
to SARs arent regulated activities and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to
how Jaja have investigated his complaint and how Jaja have responded to his SAR dont
come under my powers to consider. So, Ill just be looking at the merits of his complaint.
Im not persuaded that the new card being sent to Mr Ms previous address is an error on
Jajas part. I say that because Mr M says he moved address in September 2020. But under
the terms and conditions of the account - section 18.11 states: You must tell us immediately
of any change to your address. Mr M has said he tried in late November to change his
registered address. So, I dont think its reasonable to hold Jaja responsible for issuing a new
card to the address which was registered on his account on the 12 November 2020  this
was before Mr M had attempted to contact Jaja to have his address updated.
Next, Ive considered the customer service which Jaja gave Mr M. I know that Mr M says he
spoke to an agent to change his address. I asked Jaja to send their system notes and proof
of inbound calls which have been made by Mr M. Jaja sent information which shows he
passed security through the automated services but did not speak to an agent. The dates of
the inbound calls when automated security had been completed matched Mr Ms call log that
he provided us. But the system notes on the date of these calls were automatically
generated by automated services, when he completed automated security and not from a
call agent. On other occasions where Mr M has spoken to an agent, the system notes show
a different code to show he has spoken to a call agent. So in order to say he received poor
customer service on this call I would need to see evidence of this. But with the information I
have, I cant say that he did receive poor service here as I have no access to any call or
system notes from a call agent. But I can evidence that Mr M did have poor customer service
when trying to change his address with Jaja and Ill explain why below.
Mr M wanted to communicate with Jaja via email and was clear that he worked between 9-5,
so email was the best way to contact him. But Jaja repeatedly tried to contact him between
9-5. This will have been frustrating for Mr M as it is clear he was eager to get a new
replacement card as his previous card had expired. So what I would expect Jaja to do here
is to apologise to Mr M, recognise that the poor customer service would have had an impact
on him and to compensate him for the inconvenience. Im satisfied that this is what they did
here. They apologised to Mr M and credited his account with £50 to recognise that he would
have been inconvenienced. Had Jaja not taken these actions then I would have upheld his
complaint on this point and the compensation that I wouldve awarded would broadly be the
same as what Jaja had paid him.
In summary, Im not persuaded that its fair to hold Jaja responsible for sending Mr Ms new
credit card to the address registered on their system on 12 November 2020. This is becausehe didnt inform the credit card provider of his new address when he moved out of his last
address in September 2020. The phone call he made to Jaja was after his card had been
sent out so the phone call was too late to prevent this from happening. Jaja has credited Mr
Ms account with £50 due to poor customer service he experienced and Im persuaded this is
fair for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I do not intend to ask Jaja to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Mr M did not respond to my provisional decision. Jaja responded and said they had 
nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there was no further information for me to consider, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr M will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman