DRN-3614850
The complaint
Mr R complains Experian Limited incorrectly changed details of a County Court Judgment 
(CCJ) on his credit file.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant information below, and this forms part of my final decision.
Mr R complained the CCJ, which he said had been added to his credit file incorrectly 
anyway, had some of the details on it changed to match his details. He said the name was 
changed, along with his date of birth.
Experian said this was an internal mistake by them. They said sorry for their mistakes and 
paid £25 compensation. 
Unhappy with this Mr R asked us to look into things, saying hed spoken to a solicitors firm, 
and a representative, who both felt £1,000 or more was a fair amount of compensation. Mr R 
also said data protection laws have been broken.
After resolving an issue about what we could or couldnt look into, one of our Investigators 
upheld Mr Rs complaint  and felt £200 compensation in total was a fair figure.
Experian accepted this outcome, but Mr R didnt think this was fair, because he said the 
change impacted his creditworthiness and hes experienced a lot of stress dealing with this 
matter. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain in this case I cant decide whether the CCJ was incorrectly 
applied  as Mr R says. He brought a separate complaint to our service about that, and we 
decided we couldnt consider it because the issue had been brought too late under the rules 
we have to apply.
I say this because Im aware Mr R, and his representatives, feel all the circumstances of his 
case arent being taken into account. To be clear, the only issue Im able to consider is the 
changing of the details of the CCJ on Mr Rs credit file  not whether the CCJ itself should or 
shouldnt have been applied. So, in that sense, I am only looking at part of what happened 
because thats all the rules allow me to do.
Ive seen Mr R has said Experian have broken data protection laws. I cant decide if they 
have or havent. My role is to take into account the law, rules and regulations, and good 
practice at the time. But, overall, my remit is to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis.
The CCJ was already showing on Mr Rs credit file when it seems Experian thought the 
name thatd been recorded had a typo in it  and updated it to what they saw as the correct 
name in April 2021. The name thatd been recorded was one letter out from Mr Rs. Theyve 
explained to us the date of birth change was due to an internal error. As I understand it, the 
CCJ was changed back to the original details around five months later.
My starting point is to consider the impact on Mr R. In doing so and paying particular 
attention to Mr Rs concern about it impacting his credit worthiness, I cant ignore that a CCJ 
was already registered at this time. A CCJ is quite a serious indicator that someone hasnt 
paid their debts  because it means a company has gone to court, and the court has agreed 
that person owes this debt.
So, the existence of the CCJ in itself would likely have already significantly impacted Mr Rs 
creditworthiness. And, as Ive mentioned above, I cant decide whether this was or wasnt 
correctly applied.
Mr R has said that changing the details of the CCJ which he says was incorrectly recorded, 
removed any opportunity he had to argue it wasnt his. But hed raised disputes about this 
previously, so could have provided some evidence of this to prospective lenders. In any 
event, the key focus is to carefully consider the impact on Mr R  along with any evidence he 
might have to show that impact.
I could see our Investigator had mentioned to Mr R about sending us evidence of the impact 
on him, but hed not provided anything in response  saying that providing any evidence was 
stressful. Mr R says his complaint is worth around £1,000 compensation  following advice 
from his solicitors and representatives. 
For context, I wanted to explain the first example given on our website for this kind of 
compensation is of an insurer failing to correct a repair properly  leading to a leak in the 
ceiling which a consumer had to deal with for six months and having to empty a bucket of 
water daily. I dont wish in any way to downplay the frustration Mr R has experienced, but I 
didnt deem the impact on Mr R to be equivalent to having to empty a bucket of water every 
day due to a financial businesses error. I felt the amount he was asking for was excessive 
given the impact this issue had on him  based on the evidence thatd been provided to me.
But to ensure Mr R had a fair opportunity to present all of the information he wanted me to 
consider before deciding the outcome of his complaint, I asked our Investigator to get in 
touch to gather more information.
Having done so, Mr R has explained:
He had dental treatment which he had to pay £700 of the total £1,995 up front and 
the remainder at each appointment. When he asked the dental practice why, he says 
they told him its because of a CCJ registered in his exact name. He said he disputed 
this, but they wouldnt change their mind. He said the impact of this was stressful, as 
he had to borrow cash from friends and family and pay that back within three months. 
Mr R said the dentist would provide a letter at a cost of £60 to him but would reply to 
our enquiries for free.
His car insurance premiums were much higher than in previous years and he knows 
insurance companies carry out credit checks and use a range of factors to determine 
premiums. And when asked if he could provide the full quotes of the insurance from 
this year when it was higher, along with the previous years lower quote, the website 
didnt show the information we asked for.When we asked about him providing his Experian credit report to see exactly what it 
showed, he said we could speak to them on his behalf. We explained we couldnt do 
that as only he could get his credit report. No Experian credit report was provided.
In October 2021 Mr R tried to purchase some cleaning equipment, and tried to do 
this on credit, but he said they told him a CCJ matching his name was returned so he 
had to pay up front to buy the items.
Mr R also expressed frustration at being asked to provide this information to only then be 
told its not enough  he said he hopes this is taken into account and gives perspective on 
the stress and hurt hes been through.
I need to make it clear our Investigator was asking Mr R these questions at my direction, and 
as I can see he explained to Mr R on several occasions, to ensure we fully understood the 
impact on him. Given the amount Mr R was asking for I was concerned there were aspects 
of whatd happened that we didnt know about, so I wanted to make sure he had every 
opportunity to share his points.
As Mr R said, we contacted his dentist. They replied and said Mr R started his treatment on 
10 September 2019. They said they were using an external finance company but have no 
record of Mr R ever making an application. They said Mr R paid for his treatment on regular 
visits by credit card.
Thinking about the dentists response, it seems the treatment was started long before the 
issues involved in this complaint. The update by Experian took place in April 2021, and it 
seems the treatment was started around 18 months earlier. The dentist has also said no 
application was ever made for credit  so, in effect, I dont think this supports Mr Rs claim.
 
Regarding Mr Rs motor insurance, hes mentioned the premiums factor in whether someone 
has a CCJ amongst a large number of other points. But when replying hes not provided me 
with enough information to clearly show the only reason his car insurance premiums 
increased was due to Experians error.
The email from the cleaning company says Mr R tried to make a bulk purchase of cleaning 
products on 3 June 2021. This was within the timeframe of the CCJ having been updated. 
The cleaning company said Mr R asked to pay on credit, but when they ran a check it 
showed up a CCJ. The cleaning company noted Mr Rs explanation, but also said theyre 
unfortunately unable to extend credit to any individual whos has (sic) an outstanding CCJ 
on their credit report. They did go on to say both Mr Rs first and second names matched, 
which is why they were unable to take into account what Mr R had told them.
I dont think this is sufficiently definitive to say the cleaning company would have granted the 
lending anyway but for Experian having updated the name on the CCJ  theyve explicitly 
said they dont grant lending to someone with a CCJ. So, purely because of the existence of 
the CCJ Im not persuaded they would have granted the lending  regardless of what name 
it was in. Also, part of the reason of asking for the credit report was to understand whether it 
was likely any company might have lent to Mr R even factoring in what he said about the 
CCJ. But Mr R hasnt provided his credit file, so I cant take this into account.I do appreciate that this happening in April 2021, and seemingly not being corrected for 
around five months is disappointing. I think Experian could have acted far quicker in 
resolving this matter. But, in thinking about the impact, Ive not been provided the kind of 
evidence Id expect to see to increase the award to the £1,000 or more as Mr R and his 
representatives have suggested. I can see theyve looked at our website to judge the 
compensation  but the examples given of why wed award £1,000 arent reflective in my 
opinion of Mr Rs complaint. 
Taking everything into account, based on the information that has been provided, I do think 
the £200 recommended by our Investigator is a fair amount. Mr R had the details of a CCJ 
changed on his credit file, but beyond the frustration hes experienced as a result of this, hes 
not been able to evidence its had any further significant impact on him. I realise hell be 
disappointed by this, and I have listened to the call he had with our Investigator when the 
outcome was explained by him  but I think the £200 total compensation is fair. Im aware 
Mr R has already been paid £25  so Experian can deduct this when sending Mr R any final 
payment.
I understand the CCJ has since been removed, because of an update by the originator of the 
CCJ, so itll no longer be an issue for Mr R going forward now.
Responses to my provisional decision
Experian said theyve nothing further to add.
Mr R said there had been an error in the decision as it says the CCJ was corrected within 
the timeframe of 3 June 2021. But, that wasnt correct as the error was still there on that 
date. Mr R also said the cleaning company did also mention theyd consider giving him credit 
if the CCJ didnt match his exact name. 
In a second response Mr R said hed spoken to the dentist, and cleaning company again, 
and theyd said:
Dentist  They said I am writing to confirm the payments that were made. After the 
refusal from our previous finance company. Regular payments were made to fulfil the 
overall balance. If needed, we can send a confirmation of these payments.
Cleaning company  They said Further to our conversation today I can confirm the 
following. If the name on the CCJ was not (Mr Rs actual name) as per your identity 
documents and it was in a different name such as (previous CCJ name), then our 
organisation would most (sic) have extended credit as there would be grounds to 
dispute this. Once again, I will confirm we as business will extend you credit if the 
name is different to your actual name on the basis of this being ambiguous.
Mr R added the most upsetting part of all of this is the fact that despite doing all the chasing 
and numerous attempts to gather more information there hasnt even been a slight increase 
in the compensation. Mr R said he feels hes not being taken seriously at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im disappointed to see Mr R thinks hes not being taken seriously. As I outlined in my 
provisional decision, the reason for asking him to provide evidence of the impact on him is 
precisely because I am taking him seriously. Mr R had asked for compensation of £1,000 which is very high for an issue which didnt, at face value, warrant a figure near to what he 
was asking. In order to address that I arranged for our Investigator to ask a large number of 
follow up questions solely to ensure wed fully understand his complaint. Ill now address the 
points hes raised as appropriate.
I understand Mr R thinks Ive made an error, but I dont think I have. I say that because Ive 
said in the provisional decision this was within the timeframe of the CCJ being updated. In 
context, what I meant was the CCJ had been updated to Mr Rs name  rather than the 
previous name the CCJ had been in. So, I was acknowledging this took place when the CCJ 
had been incorrectly updated.
And I did see the cleaning company mention the CCJ was in Mr Rs name, so they couldnt 
factor in what hed told them about that being incorrect. But, I placed more weight on their 
statement which said I am aware you did explain this is not connected to yourself but as per 
our company procedure we are unfortunately unable to extend credit to any individual whos 
(sic) has an outstanding CCJ on their credit report.
Given this statement, I wasnt persuaded even if the CCJ hadnt been updated to Mr Rs 
actual name, that theyd have lent to him given he did have a CCJ on his credit file (whether 
that was legitimate or not).
Looking at Mr Rs second response  and addressing the cleaning company first, I find it 
unusual theyve now sent a reply saying they would have considered granting lending if the 
CCJ was in the wrong name  when they clearly said they wouldnt before. 
Similarly the dentists have now given different information  and said they did turn down 
Mr Rs credit application  after saying they never had one (and telling us treatment dates 
didnt match to the dates the CCJ was on Mr Rs credit file in his name).
Where Im presented with conflicting or contradictory information, as I am here, then I have 
to decide which piece of evidence to place more weight on. That can be tricky, as is the case 
here, where two parties have given entirely different responses.
Because they have given different responses, its difficult for me to know what their actual 
position is  or for me to place as much weight on their responses as I might if theyd given 
consistent answers. Given that, I think its difficult for me to rely on what theyve said, so Im 
going to disregard their evidence.
So, taking everything into account, I still think £200 compensation in total is fair  and 
Experian can still remove the £25 theyve already paid Mr R from any final settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Experian Limited 
to pay Mr R a total of £200 compensation (with any deduction for payments already made by 
Experian Limited). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman