DRN-3063629
The complaint
Miss A complains that ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Group Insurance Group has turned down a 
cancellation claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A held an annual travel insurance policy which was underwritten by ZAD. She was due 
to fly abroad on 1 March 2020 and return to the UK on 15 March 2020. However, Miss A 
said she began to suffer with symptoms of a sore throat and a temperature. So she decided 
to cancel her trip, in case she was suffering from Covid-19. She made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling her trip.
ZAD turned down Miss As claim. It noted that on her claim form, Miss A had stated that the 
reason for the cancellation of her trip was because of the risk of Covid-19 on planes and 
trains; the risk of lockdown and of not being able to return to the UK for work. ZAD said that 
the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover Miss As situation. When Miss A later told it 
about her symptoms, it maintained its decision to turn down the claim. It said it couldnt 
accept a fundamental change in the circumstances.
Miss A was unhappy with ZADs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that the 
fear of developing Covid-19 was something the policy covered. And she noted that a 
policyholders disinclination to travel was specifically excluded by the policy terms. She 
acknowledged that Miss A had provided evidence to show she had been off work sick on 28 
February 2020. But she also noted that the policy required a policyholder to provide medical 
evidence to show that it had been medically necessary to cancel their trip. And Miss A hadnt 
provided any medical evidence to show that this had been the case. So she concluded itd 
been fair for ZAD to turn down Miss As claim.
Miss A disagreed. She said shed believed she had Covid-19 and thats why she hadnt 
travelled. She hadnt been advised to get a medical certificate  but in any event, it wouldve 
been difficult to see a GP. So she wouldnt have been able to obtain this evidence.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, I think it was fair for ZAD to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms 
of Miss As policy and the available evidence, to decide whether ZAD treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Miss 
As contract with ZAD. As Miss A decided against travelling, I think it was appropriate for 
ZAD to assess her claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This provides cover for 
the following, listed insured events:
1. the death, bodily injury. Illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
6. your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with, being 
stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
7.you, or any person you Intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, nursing profession or a government employee being 
ordered to return to duty.
In this case, Miss A completed a claim form on 24 March 2020. She set out her reason for 
cancellation as follows:
Risk of coronavirus on planes, trains, while travelling and at country destination chance of 
lockdown and plane cancellations while on holiday and not being able to come back for 
work/to help family. Ski resorts closing due to virus.
Based on the information Miss A initially gave to ZAD, I think it was reasonable for it to 
conclude the claim wasnt covered. Thats because the insured events Ive set out above 
dont cover cancellation due to the risk of contracting a virus, or the fear of government 
restrictions affecting travel plans. Ive noted too that at the point Miss A decided to cancel 
her trip, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office hadnt advised against travel to 
her destination and neither were there any restrictions in place at her destination country. 
And the cancellation section of the policy also specifically excludes: disinclination to travel or 
continue travelling, unless your change of travel plans is caused by one of the circumstances 
listed under 'What you are covered for. I think, based on the claim form presented to it, it 
was fair for ZAD to conclude that Miss As claim was down to a disinclination to travel.
Miss A subsequently told ZAD that she cancelled her trip because she was suffering from 
symptoms of Covid-19. I appreciate shes provided us with her absence records which show 
that she was off work on 28 February 2020  two days before she was due to travel - with a 
cold/flu. Ive considered then whether ZAD should fairly treat the claim was covered by the 
provision for cancellation due to illness. 
However, the cancellation section of the policy says that ZAD wont cover: 
Claims where you have failed to obtain a medical certificate from a medical practitioner, 
confirming that cancellation of the trip is necessary.
This is a standard term in most travel insurance policies. Thats because its for a 
policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that they have a valid claim on their policy. 
I think this term is clearly set out in the contract. In this case, Miss A didnt provide a medical certificate from a GP to show that her symptoms prevented her from travelling. I appreciate 
that due to concerns about Covid-19 at the relevant time, Miss A mightve found it more 
difficult to visit a GP. But I think it wouldve been reasonable for her to speak with a GP or 
NHS 111 about her symptoms and whether or not theyd prevent her from travel. Theres no 
evidence to suggest Miss A spoke to either a doctor or the 111 service.
Ive looked carefully at the absence records Miss A provided. I can see that she was off work 
for one day on 28 February 2020 with a cold/flu. But it doesnt seem that Miss A took any 
further time off work as a result of this illness after that date and theres no evidence to 
suggest that she was self-isolating due to Covid-19 after 28 February 2020. On this basis, I 
dont think I could fairly conclude that this evidence is enough to show, on balance, that Miss 
As wasnt medically fit to travel.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Miss As position, I dont think ZAD treated her unfairly. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for ZAD to conclude that her claim wasnt covered by the 
terms of her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman