DRN-3817806
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited  trading as 
Direct Line Home Insurance (UKI) following a claim on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had home insurance with UKI. In September 2021 they made a claim 
following an escape of water at their home. UKI accepted the claim and identified the cause 
to have been from the external drainage system at the property. It appointed a drainage 
expert to inspect the system and report on the required repairs. 
They concluded that while a repair is needed, the septic tank needed to be updated in order 
to meet recently updated legislation regarding the discharging of effluent. And the cost to 
carry out the upgrade wouldnt be covered under the insurance. UKI therefore offered Mr 
and Mrs M a cash settlement based just on the repair to the system, rather than carrying out 
the work itself. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this. They said there were a number of errors in UKIs 
experts report. The most critical being that their drainage system didnt discharge sewage, 
but instead was regularly emptied. Therefore it was a cesspit rather than a septic tank and 
therefore the new regulations wouldnt apply to it. They said UKI should therefore carry out 
the required repairs under the policy. They made a complaint.
UKI didnt uphold the complaint so Mr and Mrs M brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that while Mr and Mrs M had provided emails from other drainage companies who 
didnt agree with UKIs findings, UKIs expert was the only one who had attended to inspect 
the damage and compiled a report. So on balance she found UKIs evidence most 
persuasive and therefore felt it had offered a fair claim settlement.Mr and Mrs M didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the dispute here is whether the drainage system at Mr and Mrs Ms property is a 
cesspit or a septic tank. As UKI have declined to carry out the repairs itself because the 
system doesnt meet new regulations that apply to septic tanks, but wouldnt apply to 
cesspits. 
It isnt the role of this service to decide whether the system is a cesspit or a septic tank, as 
we arent experts in drainage systems. Instead we rely on the opinions of those who are 
experts in order to determine whether UKI has offered a fair settlement based on the 
available evidence.  
UKIs contractor is an expert in drainage and they attended Mr and Mrs Ms property to 
inspect the drainage system. They produced a detailed report that recommended the 
required repairs and concluded that the system was a septic tank and therefore would 
require upgrading to meet the new regulations. I find this report persuasive as it was based 
on a direct inspection of the system by a drainage expert.
Mr and Mrs M have provided numerous emails from other drainage experts, who have 
commented on details and a photograph provided by her. While I understand the responses 
she has received from these contradict UKIs experts own findings, I find these less 
persuasive. As they are based on limited, and poor quality, photographs and a written 
explanation of the system rather than an in person inspection. Mrs M has said that one of 
those experts did visit the property and inspect the system directly. However shes provided 
no report from the visit, as UKIs expert has provided. So I dont consider this to be as 
persuasive as UKIs own report.
Mr and Mrs M have also provided a letter from a solicitor from 1988 that mentions a cesspit 
in relation to the property. However due to the date and lack of detail in this letter, it doesnt 
change my position. While the letter appears to confirm that the property had a cesspit as 
part of the original deeds, it doesnt account for the current position of the property or any 
improvements or changes that may have been made. So I dont consider this enough to say 
that UKI has acted unfairly. 
Based on this, I consider UKIs experts report to be the most reliable and persuasive 
evidence. And, in the absence of any other expert reports, I think UKI acted fairly by relying 
on it when settling the claim.
But its also important to note, that regardless of whether the drainage system is a cesspit or 
a septic tank, UKI has offered a cash settlement for the repairs required to address the 
problem that Mr and Mrs M claimed for. Which is what its required to do under the policy. So 
even if the upgrades to the system arent required as Mr and Mrs M believe, theyll still be 
able to have the repairs carried out as required. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest this 
wouldnt be possible. So I dont agree that the settlement offered is an unfair one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman