DRN-3292329
The complaint
Miss P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have declined a claim 
shes made under her building and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P took out a building and contents insurance policy with Admiral in early August 2021.
Miss P made a claim for accidental damage under her policy in late August 2021. The claim 
was for spilt paint on her carpet in the hallway, two bedrooms and living room. 
To validate the claim, Admiral appointed loss adjusters. The loss adjusters needed to visit 
Miss Ps property, so they contacted her to arrange a convenient date and time.
Miss P wasnt comfortable letting people into her home at the time, due to the Covid19 
pandemic. She said shed be happy to provide further photos or video evidence, or she said 
the appointed loss adjuster could attend her property if they wore full protective equipment 
and provided a negative lateral flow test result. 
Admiral said it wouldnt be able to validate the claim using photos and video evidence. It 
explained that a site visit was necessary to validate the claim and this was standard 
procedure. It explained that the loss adjuster would follow government guidelines and wear 
the appropriate PPE and social distancing measures would be followed to minimise the risk. 
It issued a final response letter explaining this to Miss P and it said that if the site visit 
couldnt go ahead, it wouldnt be able to validate the claim. 
Miss P remained unhappy and refused to let the loss adjuster attend the property. She 
arranged for the carpet to be taken up and replaced  she let Admiral know shed done this. 
At this stage, Admiral said because it hadnt been able to visit the property and the carpet 
had now been removed, it couldnt validate the claim, and it would be taking no further 
action. It referred to the terms and conditions of the policy that allowed it to do this.
Miss P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter. They didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further. They were 
satisfied that Admiral had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
trying to visit the property. They also didnt think Admiral could do anything further now the 
carpet had been removed and they didnt agree there were any customer service issues.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators findings. She said that Admiral hadnt considered 
her concerns about Covid19 and as a result shed had to pay for the carpet to be replaced 
herself. She asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Miss P is claiming for accidental damage caused to her carpet by a spilt paint pot. The photo 
evidence she has provided shows it has been spilt in several rooms and down the stairs. 
Miss Ps building and contents insurance policy allows her to claim for accidental damage, 
so there is no dispute that she had the option to claim for the damage caused. But what is in 
dispute is whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to continue with Miss 
Ps claim.
Ive reviewed the relevant terms and conditions of Miss Ps policy and they state the 
following;
You must co-operate with our investigationwe are entitled to enter your home, if 
necessary, to recover anything we can and to make sure no further damage happens; 
and
You must not dispose of or destroy items that are damaged, until we agree that you can.
In order to validate the claim and move it forward, Admiral said it needed to attend Miss Ps 
property. It explained that a desk top valuation wasnt appropriate in the circumstances 
because the damage spanned across several rooms. I know Miss P has said the appointed 
loss adjuster said a desktop valuation may have been appropriate  but ultimately as the 
policy provider it was for Admiral to decide how it assessed the claim. 
I appreciate Miss P was concerned about Covid19 and allowing strangers to enter her 
property, especially as she had a newborn baby at the time. But at the time of the claim, the 
government restrictions had been lifted in England, which meant there was no reason for 
Admiral not to attend the property. Admiral also explained that its appointed loss adjuster 
wouldve socially distanced when discussing and validating the claim to put Miss P at ease. I 
think this was fair in the circumstances.
I understand Miss P has arranged for the carpet to be removed and replaced at her own 
cost. She says it was agreed she could do this. Having looked through the communication 
with Miss P and Admiral I cannot see that Admiral agreed to Miss P removing the carpet, 
without them attending the property first. 
Given the terms set out above and the reason for needing to attend the property, I think 
Admiral has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions set out when saying it cannot 
validate the claim without attending the property. Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to say it will not take any further action with regards to Miss Ps claim.
customer service concerns
Miss P has raised concerns about delays in Admirals communication with her. She says 
deadlines have been missed and shes had to chase Admiral for answers. 
Ive reviewed the communication between Miss P and Admiral. I dont agree that Admiral 
caused unnecessary delays. The claim has taken longer than usual, but this is because of 
Miss Ps concerns with Admiral needing to visit the property to validate the claim. I acknowledge Admiral said on one occasion it didnt meet a deadline that it agreed to, but it 
apologised for this in its final response letter. I dont think Admiral needs to do anything 
further here. 
overall 
I understand Miss P feels strongly about her complaint, in particular about the risk imposed 
to her family when allowing someone to enter the property and I sympathise with her. But 
overall, Im satisfied Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It also said it wouldve taken further precautions to put Miss Ps mind 
at ease when entering the property  something it didnt need to do under government 
guidelines.
Admiral has said it hasnt heard back from Miss P since it requested further information and 
a telephone discussion. If Miss P wishes to get back in touch with Admiral to discuss her 
claim, she should do so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman