DRN-3934063
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains that IWOCA Ltd misled it into taking a loan with a high 
interest rate and would not provide any assistance when it struggled with repayments. 
What happened
V made an application for a £50,000 recovery loan with IWOCA in June 2022, however this 
was declined. Following an automated decision, IWOCA was able to offer to reinstate an 
existing flexi-loan with a limit of £15,000 which V took out in 2018. V accepted the offer and 
initially drew down £4,000, followed soon after by another draw down of £11,000. 
V made the initial payment of £449.46, but was then unable to meet further payments. It 
contacted IWOCA and requested for interest on the account to be waived for six months so 
they could have some breathing space. IWOCA asked for more information about the 
purpose of the loan and the issues the business was facing, and asked V to complete an 
affordability assessment so they could work out a repayment plan. 
V answered the questions but refused to complete an affordability assessment. Because of 
this, IWOCA could not agree a repayment plan and no further payments were made to the 
loan, however interest continued to accrue. 
IWOCA issued a final response in which it explained that the terms of the flexi-loan were 
clear in the agreement that was signed in February 2018. The agreement set out that the 
interest was per 30 days, not annual, and explained how the interest would be calculated. It 
said that as the interest had accrued in line with the agreement, and V was still active as a 
business, it would not look to reduce or freeze the interest. It also explained that it requested 
further documents from V to assess what arrangement would be affordable to it. As it did not 
receive those documents, a payment arrangement could not be made. So, it did not uphold 
Vs complaint.
V raised a complaint with our service in which it stated it was unclear the loan was set to run 
for 12 months and that the 5% interest was monthly and not annual. It did not expect the 
monthly payments to be so high and felt interest should have been frozen to give some 
breathing space. It also stated the individual representing the business, Mr D, was neuro-
divergent and had issues managing the account. And that he felt IWOCAs threats to enforce 
the personal guarantee he signed was tantamount to bullying.
Our Investigator looked into the case and firstly explained that the complaint point around 
the personal guarantee was outside of our jurisdiction, due to issues with V not meeting the 
definition of an eligible complainant for that issue. They went on to explain that IWOCA 
made the interest rate and how it worked clear, as well as the repayment schedule and loan 
term prior to V drawing down the funds. And that they felt it was reasonable that IWOCA 
asked for more information to ensure a sustainable and affordable repayment plan could be 
agreed. But as this was not provided, it was reasonable that they did not accept a payment 
arrangement and that they continued to charge interest. 
The Investigator did communicate an offer from IWOCA to deduct 30 days interest that 
would have been frozen had they been aware of Mr Ds medical conditions; on the provision 
that he provided medical documents to support this so they could better understand it and 
how it affected his ability to manage the flexi-loan. 
Mr D, on behalf of V, did not accept the offer and felt it was immoral for IWOCA to ask for 
medical documents. He still felt V was led to believe it was taking out a low interest recovery 
loan and that it was unaware the 5% interest was not an annual percentage rate (APR) but a 
monthly one. He said that he did not recognise the credit agreement from 2018 and that it 
was not signed by him. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think that 
IWOCA has acted reasonably in the circumstances, and I dont think it needs to take further 
action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.  
The Investigator set out that the complaint point relating to the Personal Guarantee is 
outside of our jurisdiction as a service. As neither party has disagreed with this, I will not be 
addressing this part of the complaint within my decision.
Ive firstly considered if IWOCA gave V clear information about the flexi-loan prior to the 
funds being available in 2022. IWOCA has provided account notes which include 
communications between V and IWOCA, as well as the original agreement from 2018. 
The product in this case is a flexi-loan, which acts as a type of revolving credit. I can see that 
the flexi-loan was initially taken out in February 2018. Mr D, on behalf of V, has said he does 
not recognise the agreement and states it is not signed by him. I can see that the agreement 
has been electronically signed my Mr D and this document would have been a requirement 
to set up the flexi-loan, which was drawn down on the same day that the agreement was 
signed. I also note the Personal Guarantee that Mr D mentioned as part of this complaint 
was also electronically signed on the same day. On balance, I think its more likely Mr D had 
sight of the credit agreement. Looking at this, I think it was clear that the agreement was for 
a revolving credit facility. 
I can see that in July 2022, V initially made an application for a £50,000 recovery loan, which 
was declined. V was instead offered a £15,000 limit on the flexi-loan that was already open. 
Ive listened to a telephone call between Mr D and IWOCA on 14 July 2022 in which Mr D 
states he has a flexi-loan with a limit of £15,000 and needs to update the bank details on it. 
I have also seen e-mail communication between V and IWOCA from 13 July in which V 
states they have £15,000 on a flexi loan from a number of years ago and that they would like 
to keep it. Looking at this, Im satisfied that it was clear V was drawing down from the 
existing flexi-loan that was initially taken out in 2018 and not applying for a new recovery 
loan.V says that it was not fully aware of the true interest rate and was led to believe it was 
around 5% APR. Ive again looked at the communications between V and IWOCA and can 
see on 15 July, prior to the funds being drawn down, IWOCA set out that: you've got a credit 
limit of £15,000 at an interest rate of 4.84% per 30 days. V then specifically asked about 
APR and was told that APR is not a true reflection of how much the product costs, but the 
exact cost will be shown on the account dashboard online. 
IWOCA has sent me an example of the dashboard and what would have been visible when 
V was selecting to draw down funds. This set out at the top what the interest rate was and 
that it was per 30 days. This also allowed V to select a drawdown amount and would then 
show the term of the loan, the minimum monthly repayment, the total interest that would be 
charged, what the total repayment figure would be and there was the option to open up the 
full repayment schedule. There is no indication that V did not have access to the dashboard.
Considering all of this, I think IWOCA made it clear that the interest rate was 4.84% per 30 
days, and not 4.84% APR. I also have to consider that V had used the same flexi-loan at the 
same limit in 2018, so had prior knowledge of the loan and how it worked, including the 
interest which was slightly higher previously. I cannot see that IWOCA has made an error in 
communicating the interest rate and other costs relating to the flexi-loan.
Ive gone on to consider what happened when V contacted IWOCA and requested a freeze 
of interest and a deferment of payments for six months on the flexi-loan. I can see that 
IWOCA initially asked questions about the purpose of the loan and what issues the business 
was facing that was causing the non-payment of the loan. They also sent some documents 
for V to complete and said once this was completed, they would do an affordability 
assessment to see what support they could offer. They then warned that while the account is 
overdue the interest would continue to accrue on the principal balance.
Having considered this, this is what I would expect IWOCA to do in the circumstances at that 
stage. They tried to obtain more information about Vs circumstances and required more 
information about Vs financial situation to know how they could affectively help it. I can see 
this back and forth continued and IWOCA made it clear that an affordability assessment 
needed to be completed in order for a payment arrangement to be made. And that if the 
account was not brought up to date, a potential default would be registered. 
However, V did not agree to complete an affordability assessment and indicated it was 
happy for the issue to be taken to court. Considering this, I think it was reasonable that 
IWOCA did not set up a repayment plan, defer payments or freeze interest. I think it is 
reasonable for IWOCA to have an understanding of what is affordable for V prior to giving 
financial assistance to it. 
I do appreciate that IWOCA could have frozen interest while V had a complaint outstanding 
about this issue. But I can also see that they clearly set out what was needed to see what 
financial assistance was reasonable and what the consequences of not receiving this was. 
So, overall, I think them continuing to apply interest in line with the terms of the agreement 
was reasonable and I cant agree they have made an error.
I note that IWOCA made an offer to deduct 30 days interest that would have been frozen 
had they been aware of Mr Ds medical conditions but required medical documentation so 
they could understand how it affected his ability to manage the account. Mr D has said he 
does not want to accept this as he does not think he should have to share his medical 
information. It is entirely up to Mr D what he chooses to share with IWOCA and I appreciate he may feel 
uncomfortable sharing personal information. It is not unusual for a business to request 
medical documents if the medical condition has impacted a consumers experience with the 
business, so I dont think IWOCAs request was unreasonable. Mr D should contact IWOCA 
directly if he would like to pursue this offer further.
Things have moved on since this complaint was brought to our service. As I understand it, 
the loan has since been defaulted, which V considers unfair. As this is something which 
IWOCA hasnt responded to, it will need to be addressed with them in the first instance, so I 
wont comment on it as part of this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Vs complaint against IWOCA Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman