DRN-3457835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited has handled their travel
insurance claim. 
Any reference to Astrenska also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T booked to travel abroad on holiday, departing on 11 March 2020, with a return
date of 26 March 2020. On 1 March 2020 they purchased an annual multi trip policy which
was underwritten by Astrenska.
Mr T currently works for the UK Armed forces and is posted to a consulate outside of the UK,
in a country Ill refer to as S. Not long after their arrival at their holiday destination, Mr and
Mrs T found out that S was going to shut its borders  this was due to the developing
situation that was occurring due to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs T booked flights back to S on 15
March 2020. This flight was subsequently cancelled whilst Mr and Mrs T were waiting to
depart at the airport as S stopped all international flights entering the country.
As a result, Mr and Mrs T bought tickets on the next available flight - which was to the UK.
They remained in the UK in transit accommodation until June 2020, when they were able to
board a government repatriation flight to S.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim to Astrenska for the additional travel and accommodation
expenses they had incurred.
Astrenksa declined their claim. It said there wasnt any coverage under the curtailment
section of the policy for claims as a result of a pandemic or epidemic. Unhappy with this
response Mr and Mrs T made a complaint. Astrenska looked at the complaint and reiterated
that there wasnt cover under the curtailment section of the policy. But it also said that cover
was only available for residents of the UK and, as Mr and Mrs T didnt reside in the UK, they 
wouldnt be eligible to claim. Astrenska did accept that there had been delays in their claims
handling and offered £75 for the poor service.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this outcome and said they had discussed their residency with
someone when they took out the policy and had been advised this would not be an issue.
Astrenska said they couldnt locate any calls but as Mr T was working for the consulate in S,
it would consider him as being resident on British soil  and therefore eligible for the cover. It
said it would consider the claim under the Catastrophe section, which provides cover for
accommodation and transport costs if you have to move from your pre-booked
accommodation due to a medical epidemic. However, it said it would only accept the claim
for the flights to the UK as this would be considered British soil.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that there
wasnt any cover under the curtailment section of the policy. And in relation to the cover
under the Catastrophe section, she said there didnt appear to be any confirmation that Mr
and Mrs T were unable to remain in their booked accommodation. And as there wasnt
evidence to show that Mr and Mrs T had done everything to mitigate their losses, she
thought it was reasonable that Astrenska only paid for the flights to the UK.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 21 April 2022 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts
complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The curtailment section of the policy provides the following cover:
SECTION 2: Curtailment
The medical emergency service must be contacted immediately in the event of a 
serious injury, illness or hospitalisation, where repatriation to your country of 
residence has to be considered.
YOU ARE COVERED
Up to the amount shown in the policy documentation for:
1. the unused portion of your travel and/or accommodation arrangements 
which were paid for before your departure from your country of 
residence (including ski hire, ski school and lift passes, which do not 
have to be paid for before your departure from your country of 
residence, in respect of winter sports trips where the appropriate 
premium has been paid), if you have to curtail your trip due to:
a. the death, severe injury or serious illness of:
i. you; or
ii. an immediate relative of yours, resident in your country of 
residency, or
iii. a travelling companion; or
iv. a close business associate of yours; or
b. complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion; or 
c. your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being 
made unusable due to fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, 
subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil commotion, 
malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the police 
requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home or place of business; or
d. you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel 
itinerary, due to loss or theft of your passport, or that of a travelling 
companion; or
e. you or a travelling companion being a member of the Armed 
Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services and you have to 
return to your country of residence because your leave is 
unexpectedly withdrawn.These proportionate values will be calculated from the date of return to 
your country of residence and/or for the period you are hospitalised as 
an in-patient abroad.
2. reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by you for returning to 
the country of residence (on the same basis as your original booking) 
earlier than planned (for a reason stated in YOU ARE COVERED 1 of this 
section).
Mr and Mrs T cut short their trip at their holiday destination due to the imminent closure of
the borders of S, the country in which they reside. The reason for the borders closing was
the developing situation relating to the Covid-19 pandemic. The curtailment section detailed
above does not include cover for cutting short a trip due to this reason and therefore Im
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ts claim is not covered under this section.
Im aware that Mr T works for the armed forces and he has said that, as a result of this
situation, his leave was effectively withdrawn  which is a covered reason for claiming under
this section. Whilst I appreciate his viewpoint, I havent seen any evidence that Mr T was
specifically told to cut short his holiday by his commanding officer or that his leave was
withdrawn, so Im not of the opinion that his claim would fall under this section.
The policy also includes another section, titled Section 7: Catastrophe, which provides
cover for additional expenses. This section states the following:
YOU ARE COVERED
We will pay up to the limit shown in the summary of cover for extra accommodation 
and transport costs, if during your trip you are forced to move from your pre-booked
accommodation as a result of fire, flood, earthquake, avalanche, storm, or medical 
epidemic.
YOU ARE NOT COVERED 
1.For claim where the local or national authorities confirm that it is safe to travel 
to or stay in the area.
2.For cost or expense payable by or recoverable from the tour operator, airline, 
hotel or other provider of services.
3.For claim not supported by official written confirmation that you were unable 
to stay in your booked accommodation.
4.For circumstances already known at the date you bought your policy or 
booked your trip (whichever is later).
Astrenska has considered Mr and Mrs Ts claim under this section. It has paid for the cost of
the flights they incurred to leave their holiday destination to travel to the UK but refused to
provide cover for the other expenses incurred. Astrenska said that cover ended once they
were on British soil and so the expenses for accommodation and ongoing travel to reach S
are not covered.
Was the claim handled fairly?
Astrenska has agreed to consider the claim under the Catastrophe section of the policy and
has made a payment for some of the expenses Mr and Mrs T incurred. Im aware that
Astrenska has referred to the coverage under this section as being if you are forced to leave
your pre-booked accommodation  it has said that it isnt clear if Mr and Mrs T could have
remained in the holiday accommodation and got a later flight to S at some point. However,
as it has paid some of the expenses under this section, it would appear to me that Astrenskahas accepted that there is a valid claim under the terms. So, I dont think it would be
reasonable to now ask Mr and Mrs T to provide evidence to show that they were unable to
stay at their holiday destination in order for the remainder of their claim to be considered.
One of the main reasons raised by Astrenska for only paying for the flights to the UK is that
the policy is for UK residents. As Mr T was working for the British consulate in S, Astrenska
consider this as British soil and therefore said Mr and Mrs T would be covered by the policy
for travel from their home. However, it said that, as Mr and Mrs T had decided to travel to the
UK, instead of their home in S, they were on British soil at that point and so the cover under
the policy ended.
Ive thought about this point very carefully. I can see that the policy wording states that cover
is provided for trips that start in your country of residence. And country of residence is
defined as The United Kingdom, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. From this it would
appear that Mr and Mrs T are not, under a strict interpretation of the policy terms and
conditions, covered for their trip which started in S.
However, Astrenska has stated that it agreed to provide cover to Mr and Mrs T on the basis
that they are considered as being on British soil when in S, as Mr T works for the consulate
as a member of the UK Armed Forces. Mr and Mrs T have said they had a conversation with
Astrenska when they took out the policy to ensure they would be covered for their travel from
S, but I understand the call recording cannot be located. However, on the basis Astrenska
has agreed that it does provide cover for those serving abroad, I think its likely that Mr and
Mrs T were told they would be covered when they called.
But I havent seen anything detailed in the policy wording which shows that Astrenska made
it clear that cover under the policy would cease if Mr and Mrs T travelled to any of the areas
defined as a country of residence. And Astrenska hasnt provided any evidence to show that
it gave supplementary documentation to Mr and Mrs T to explain to them the restrictions on
the cover in relation to their country of residence. Without this evidence, I dont think it is
reasonable to restrict the cover to Mr and Mrs Ts return to the UK only.
Mr and Mrs Ts country of residence is S. Therefore, as cover has otherwise been accepted
under the Catastrophe section, Im persuaded that on a fair and reasonable basis, Astrenska
should pay for the extra accommodation and transport costs incurred, up to the policy limit of
£750 per person under this section for Mr and Mrs T to reach their country of residence. 
Astrenska has already offered to pay for the flights to the UK and, if this amount has been
paid, it can be deducted from any settlement made.
Claims handling
Mr and Mrs T also complained about the lack of contact they received from Astrenska. Ive
seen that they sent several emails during March 2020 asking for assistance and advice but
the majority of these remained unanswered. Mr and Mrs T also tried to call the claims line on
numerous occasions, advising that they remained on hold for over 30 minutes each time but
on each call they were unable to get connected.
Im aware that the majority of these calls and emails took place whilst Mr and Mrs T were in
the UK and at this point it wasnt clear how or when they would be able to return to their
country of residence. I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs T.
And I think Astrenska could have handled the situation better by keeping them more
informed about their claim.
But I must also bear in mind that Astrenska was dealing with an unprecedented situation at
the time and Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the travel insurance industry given thenumber of customers whose travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I
dont think its unreasonable that this had some impact on their normal levels of service.
Taking that into account, I think the offer of £75 to compensate for the claims handling
service is reasonable. I dont require Astrenska to pay anything further.
Both parties confirmed they had received the provisional decision. Astrenska said it 
disagreed with the decision. It commented that the catastrophe section of the policy provided 
cover if Mr and Mrs T were forced to move from their accommodation and the necessity of 
that wasnt clear in this case. Astrenska also made the following points:
The Catastrophe section does not cover the cost of returning the customer to their 
home country.
The customers chose to travel to the United Kingdom, this was not part of their 
itinerary and they were not forced to travel here. In an e-mail of 12 June 2020, the 
customer says they followed FCO advice to return to the UK ASAP. On this basis, 
the customers appear to have decided that the UK is their country of residence and 
we have paid for these flights as a resolution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Astrenska for providing clear commentary on the provisional decision. Ive 
considered the points carefully, however, these dont persuade me to alter my initial 
outcome. Ill explain why.
Astrenska has raised that the Catastrophe section provides cover if the policy holder is 
forced to move from their accommodation. And that the need for this hasnt been shown. I 
appreciate the point but, as explained in the provisional decision, Astrenska has accepted a 
claim under this section and so it wouldnt be fair to refuse to consider the remainder of the 
claim on that basis.
Ive noted that the section doesnt specifically state itll provide cover to return Mr and Mrs T 
to their home country. However, the section covers extra accommodation and transport 
costs following the move from the pre-booked accommodation. As Mr and Mrs T were 
incurring extra accommodation and transport costs up until their return to their country of 
residence, I think it follows that Astrenska should consider these costs up until that point, 
subject to the relevant limit under the policy.
Finally, Ive looked at the email Astrenska has referred to. In this email, Mr and Mrs T make 
it clear that they were attempting to return to S, their country of residence, but this was not 
possible. However, due to FCDO advice they, as British citizens, made the decision to return 
here. Im not persuaded that this email shows Mr and Mrs T have therefore decided the UK 
is their country of residence. I think its more likely that they made the decision to come to 
the UK as it was a country they were familiar with, and they had connections with, based on 
Mr Ts UK Armed Forces role. Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to cease 
cover at this point on the basis that this was UK soil. 
Putting things right
Astrenska needs to do the following:
Pay the cost of additional accommodation costs and transport expenses incurred, upto the policy limit of £750 per person and less any applicable excess. (If Astrenska
has already settled some costs under this section, these can be deducted from any
claim.)
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Astrenska Insurance Limited must put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman