DRN-2065750
The complaint
Mr G feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a purchase on 
his credit card for some rugs.
What happened
Mrs G is representing Mr G. I shall refer to Mr G for simplicitys sake.
Mr G was abroad when he says he bought some rugs. He paid almost £2000 for the rugs 
and expected them to be delivered to his address in England. When the rugs didnt arrive he 
tried to complain. But hed lost the receipt he was given for the rugs and didnt have any 
evidence of the agreement hed entered into or any contact details of the person who he met 
abroad who sold him the rugs.
Mr G complained to Barclays, but it said it couldnt help. It didnt have any evidence to 
support a chargeback so thought that would be unsuccessful and there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show that a breach of contract or material misrepresentation had occurred. So it 
didnt think it could uphold a Section 75 claim in these circumstances.
Our investigator said that he thought that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong here. Mr G 
doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr G authorised the transaction which paid for the rugs. He freely 
explains that he did this. And Mr G hasnt argued that it shouldnt have been applied to his 
account at the time of the transaction. Bearing in mind the evidence here, Im satisfied that 
Barclays hasnt done anything wrong in applying the transaction Mr G says was for the rugs 
to his account. 
Having decided the transaction payment by Barclays is fair there are two possible avenues 
for this complaint to follow, namely a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
or via the credit card chargeback process which is under the chargeback scheme rules 
administered by the card scheme provider (not Barclays).
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr G has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Barclays here) provided certain conditions are met. Barclays 
says that there isnt persuasive evidence that any breach or misrepresentation has taken 
place.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor, supplier, often 
referred to as the DCS relationship. This hasnt been made out here. Mr G has provided no 
persuasive evidence as to who supplied the rugs, who was to deliver the rugs or what the 
relationships were involved between those who he met who sold the rugs. The only thing Mr 
G has put forward is the name of the entity who appears on his statements has having been 
the merchant. But its not clear whether this entity was a broker, rug owner, deliverer or a 
third party who just received the funds. So Im not persuaded that on balance I can decide 
the required contractual relationship is in place here.
And even if I was persuaded this claim met the requirements of the Act to be considered 
under Section 75 (which Im not) Ive still to see any persuasive evidence that there has 
been a breach or misrepresentation here. Barclays only has Mr Gs word that there was any 
rugs purchased or any deal made for delivery of rugs. And Barclays does have a duty to try 
to reduce fraud. And it does point out that for a significant sum such as this there should be 
more evidence in Mr Gs possession about the contract he says he entered into. The only 
evidence there is available is that Mr G paid the amount in question in May 2019. Barclays 
has also searched online to try and help with matters but has not found anything persuasive 
to support Mr Gs case. Having considered everything here Im not persuaded Barclays has 
treated Mr G unfairly by not refunding him under Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider (not Barclays) and 
provides a process for banks and credit card companies to recover funds for its account 
holders in certain situations. Broadly speaking banks should decide whether to make a 
chargeback or not. But wed generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be 
attempted where there was a reasonable prospect of success. 
Barclays considered the matter. It notes that under the scheme, which is voluntary, that in 
such a situation where goods or services are to be delivered the scheme requires there to be 
evidence to support both the contract being made (such as invoice, contract, receipt) and 
evidence regarding the delivery of the goods or services. Mr G accepts he has nothing other 
than some photos and videos from his time on the day. There is no proof of purchase or 
delivery. Barclays said in light of this it didnt raise a chargeback because there wasnt a 
realistic prospect of success of such a chargeback.
Having considered what we know of the dispute and the circumstances and the positions of 
the respective parties I do not consider Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it 
has used its discretion here. I can see why it would think there wasnt a reasonable prospect 
of success-so I think it acted fairly by not trying to do the chargeback.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mr G has said. I appreciate how Mr G feels about 
the whole situation. However, I dont think what Barclays has done with regard to the Section 
75 or the chargeback has meant that Mr G has been treated unfairly by it.  So this complaint 
doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman