DRN-3160908
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr B held a business protection insurance policy. He claimed on his policy after his business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Arch turned down Mr Bs claim. It said while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, 
Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Archs response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said business 
interruption due to SARS was covered by the policy and this should be considered a generic 
term which extends to include Covid-19. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy covered the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular, he thought an ordinary reader of the 
policy would think that it included cover for Covid-19. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Bs business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Arch have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Bs claim.
The relevant extension within Mr Bs policy covers loss of gross rentals:
following closure of your premises or part thereof on the order advice or 
stipulation of any Government or local authority as a result of
2.1) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the premises or within a 5 mile radius of the premises.
The definition of disease within the policy includes SARS in the list of covered diseases but 
not Covid-19. Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was 
drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar 
policies on the market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for 
example policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a 
Government-defined list. Mr Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the 
diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it 
would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy 
can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS and I understand Mr B feels strongly that 
this is a generic term that includes Covid-19. So, Ive considered this point. 
While both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses, SARS is an infectious disease 
in its own right. Ive noted Mr Bs point that plague is included in the list and this is a generic 
term for the different types of plague. However, I note that plague is listed as one disease on 
the Governments list of notifiable diseases whereas Covid-19 and SARS are listed 
separately. 
The World Health Organisation acknowledged that whilst the two illnesses were related, they 
were different and caused different diseases. Because of this, I dont agree that Covid-19 
can be treated as SARS for the purpose of attracting cover under the policy terms. Rather I 
think the term SARS used in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical 
illness. And whilst I appreciate that the diseases are part of the same family, I think to 
interpret them interchangeably would render the list Arch has set out, redundant.
This position is also supported by recent case law. In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers 
Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 the Judge was presented with an argument that 
Covid-19 fell under various other diseases listed in an insurance policy. It was held that the 
key to cover was the disease itself and not how it was brought about.
Ive considered Mr Bs point that the ordinary reader would think that Covid-19 was covered 
as SARS was on the list. However, the policy definition refers to the following diseases 
which I think makes it clear that the covered diseases are restricted to those listed on the 
policy. Therefore, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
the list of covered diseases extends to include Covid-19 and I think it was reasonable for 
Arch to decide that cover wasnt available under this extension.
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Arch to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman