DRN-3260517
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited voided his motor insurance policy 
and is unfairly asking him to reimburse the money it paid to settle a claim from another 
driver.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. Mr As mother was a named driver on the 
policy.
In August 2019 another driver accused Mr As mother of hitting their car while parking. The 
other driver made a claim against Mr As policy for damage which they said had been 
caused to their car. They also claimed that theyd been injured.
Admiral wasnt able to speak to Mr As mother about the incident. But it got a diagram and 
description of the incident from Mr As father. Around four weeks after the incident, an 
engineer inspected Mr As car on Admirals behalf. They noted various areas of collision 
damage and other light damage. But they said they hadnt inspected the other drivers 
vehicle. And based on the evidence theyd been given, they couldnt, at that stage, tell 
whether any of the damage was related to the alleged collision. They said that their report 
would no doubt be compared to an inspection of the other drivers vehicle.
In the course of investigating the incident, Admiral spoke to Mr As father, who mentioned 
that Mr A was working overseas, so was out of the UK for a few months at a time. In 
September 2019 Admiral wrote to Mr A, asking him why he hadnt told it he wouldnt be living 
in the UK.
In October 2019 Admiral wrote to the other drivers insurers to say that it accepted liability for 
the incident and would be sending a payment for the costs the other driver had incurred 
within a fortnight.
A few weeks later, having got details of the dates Mr A had been in and out of the UK, 
Admiral told him it was voiding his policy from June 2019, when the policy had last been 
renewed. It said this was because he hadnt told it he was living overseas.
In December 2019, having already accepted liability and sent settlement money to the other 
drivers insurers, Admiral asked Mr A to sign a consent and indemnity form to allow it to act 
on Mr As behalf. It said it would try to settle the claim on the best terms without a judgment 
being entered against Mr A. It said that if Mr A didnt complete the form, it would probably get 
a assignment and agreement form from the other driver. It said this would allow it to settle 
the other drivers claim as it saw fit, and would transfer the right of recovery against Mr A 
from the other driver to Admiral, so it could recover the losses from Mr A or the named 
driver.
In its final response to Mr As complaint in March 2020, Admiral defended its decision to 
settle the third-party claim. It said that it had no independent evidence to support Mr As 
assertion that there was no contact between the cars or that Mr As mother was being 
framed. And it had no independent evidence to prove that the areas of damage on Mr As 
car were there before the incident. It said that since the cost of the damage to the other car 
was over £1,000, it was satisfied from its experience that a soft tissue injury could have been 
caused by the accident.
But Admiral accepted that it should have got a damage consistency report and images from 
the other drivers insurers before settling the claim. It sent Mr A a cheque for £100, which 
was made up of £50 to apologise for not having requested a consistency report, and £50 as 
an apology for its delay in dealing with Mr As complaint. But it said that the policy had been 
voided and no cover would have been provided if it had known that Mr A was living 
overseas. So it believed it was right to reclaim the cost of the other drivers claim from Mr A.
After Mr A brought his complaint to this service, Admiral asked the engineer who had 
inspected and reported on Mr As car following the incident to prepare a consistency report. 
The engineer looked at photos of the other drivers car alongside the findings in their original 
inspection report on Mr As car. They said the photos of the other drivers car were poor, but 
it was possible to make out some horizontal scuffing. And there was damage to Mr As car 
that could be considered consistent with the damage on the Third Party vehicle. They 
concluded that it is not unreasonable to suggest that the vehicles have made contact in the 
manner described and therefore could be considered consistent based on the evidence to 
hand.
Mr A accepts that there are a few scuffs on his car. But he says those were already there 
before the alleged collision. He told Admiral that his mothers an experienced driver, and 
didnt feel any impact. She told him the other driver approached her aggressively, and drove 
away without giving her a chance to assess the damage or to get their details. And she said 
that the person who the other driver claims was a witness didnt actually arrive on the scene 
until a couple of minutes after the alleged collision. So they wouldnt have been in a position 
to assess any damage. Mr A also considers unlikely that the other driver was injured, given 
that the car would have been moving very slowly during the parking manoeuvre.
Mr A believes that the other drivers claim is fraudulent. Hes dissatisfied that he wasnt given 
a chance to tell Admiral why he didnt think it should accept liability for the alleged collision. 
And he says Admiral has never explained to him how the cost of the alleged damage to the 
other car was calculated. He says that even though Admiral voided the policy, it still had a 
duty to investigate the other drivers claim properly. He believes Admiral settled the case out 
of convenience, as it would be cheaper to pay the other driver and claim the money back 
from him than it would have been to contest the claim. Hed like Admiral to remove the claim 
from his and his mothers insurance records and not to seek to recover the cost of the other 
drivers claim from him.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint, and ultimately didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary, she thought Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling 
Mr As insurance. And although she thought that Admiral should have got a consistency 
report sooner, she didnt think Mr A was worse off as a result of the delay, as she thought 
Admiral would still have reached the same conclusion as to who was responsible for the 
incident.
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Admiral on 3 December 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals decision to void the policy
Mr A had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out 
the policy. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and the insurer can show that if theyd 
known the true position, they wouldnt have offered the policy (or would have offered it on 
different terms), the insurer may be entitled to void the policy. Thats what Admiral claims to 
have been entitled to do here.
But Im not convinced that there was a misrepresentation in this case.
Admiral has sent us a copy of the Motor Proposal Confirmation it sent Mr A when he 
renewed the policy in June 2019. Its explained that it contains the information Mr A gave. It 
lists details for Mr A and the other named drivers on the policy. In each case the drivers date 
of birth is recorded. Then it says Residency: [year]. In Mr As case, the year shown is the 
year he was born. So I think its likely that Mr A told Admiral he was a UK resident and had 
been all his life.
Mr A acknowledges that at the time the alleged incident happened, he was working abroad. 
But he says he remained a UK resident. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that hed 
lost that status. Nor would I expect this to happen simply because a person was working 
overseas.
So I dont find that Mr A made a misrepresentation to Admiral if he told it that he was a UK 
resident. And that being the case, Im not satisfied that Admiral was entitled to void his 
policy.
In its final response to Mr As complaint, Admiral pointed to Condition 14 of the General 
Conditions of cover in Mr As policy. The provision was headed Residency. It said:
You will only be provided with the cover set out in this policy, if you and any additional 
drivers on your policy, are permanently resident in Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the 
Isle of Man, Alderney, Guernsey and Jersey.
If you intend to leave the country for 30 days or more, and you are not taking your car, 
you must call our Customer Services Department.
In correspondence with Mr A, and (according to its claim notes) when it spoke to Mr A on the 
phone, Admiral told him that it required the policyholder to be residing in the UK. Thats a 
different matter. I accept that if the policy had said that the policyholder needed to be 
residing in the UK, there might be an argument that they had to be living in the UK. But 
thats not what the policy said.It isnt in dispute that Mr A had left the country for more than 30 days at a time, and that he 
hadnt told Admiral about this. So he was technically in breach of the policy terms. But I dont 
consider that it would be fair of Admiral to rely on that to cancel the policy unless it 
highlighted the requirement clearly to Mr A. And Im not satisfied that it did. The requirement 
to notify Admiral of absences of more than 30 days was on p.30 of a 37-page policy booklet. 
And its not the sort of requirement that Id consider so obvious that Id expect a policyholder 
to be aware of without having it clearly pointed out to them.
Mr A kept his car at his parents house and used it whenever he was back in the UK. I dont 
think that it was unreasonable of him not to realise that Admiral required him to tell it about 
his absences from the UK. So I dont find that it was fair of Admiral to rely on this provision to 
claim to be entitled to recover the payments it made to the other driver from Mr A.
I should add that even if Admiral had known that Mr A was living abroad, I dont think its 
likely that it would have considered the risk of insuring the car to be significantly higher, 
given that Mr A was keeping the car at his parents house. But I dont need to decide that 
point, as Ive decided that the requirement to tell Admiral about absences from the UK wasnt 
made sufficiently clear.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that Admiral was entitled to void or to cancel 
Mr As policy. So it isnt entitled to require Mr A to reimburse what it paid to the other driver 
or any other costs.
Admirals handling of the other drivers claim
I now need to consider what should have happened if Admiral hadnt treated Mr As policy as 
void.
Admiral told the other drivers insurer less than two months after the incident that it accepted 
liability. And it recorded the incident as a fault claim on Mr As insurance record.
Its not our role to decide who was responsible for a collision. Thats a matter for the courts. 
But we need to decide whether the insurer acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision. Wed expect it to consider both parties versions of events  including statements 
and diagrams, any evidence to support or challenge the parties versions of events.
Under the terms of Mr As motor insurance policy, Admiral was entitled to take over any 
claim from a third party and to defend it as it saw fit. This is a common term that we see in 
most motor insurance policies.
Admirals computer records show that it tried several times to get a full account of what 
happened from Mr As mother, who was driving at the time of the incident. But it was unable 
to do so. Mr As father provided Admiral with a diagram to show the position of the cars, but 
he wasnt there when the incident happened.
So I accept that Admiral had some difficulty in getting a detailed account of what happened. 
But it should, at the very least, have got a consistency report from its engineer before 
agreeing to settle the other drivers claim. As it was, it didnt do so until around 18 months 
after the incident, long after it had settled the other drivers claim.In the consistency report which Admiral eventually obtained, the engineer examined images 
of the damage to Mr As car and the other car. He said that the photos of the other car were 
poor, but that it was possible to make out some horizontal scuffing. He concluded that the 
damage to Mr As car could be considered consistent with the damage to the other car. And 
he thought that on the basis of the photos, it wasnt unreasonable to suggest that the two 
cars had made contact in the way the other driver had said.
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to make a commercial decision to settle a claim rather 
than contest it in court if costs of litigation are likely to outweigh sums at stake. And in this 
case, based on the limited evidence it had, I think that it was reasonable of Admiral to take 
the view that there was a significant risk that it would be unable to defend the case 
successfully if it went to court. And I think that view would have been strengthened if Admiral 
had got the consistency report when it should have done.
It might be that there was some scope for argument about whether the incident was Mr As 
mothers sole or partial responsibility. But the impact on Mr As insurance record of accepting 
full liability on his part is no different than it would have been if liability had been split 
between Mr A and the other driver. It would still have been recorded as a fault claim.
But I think Admiral handled the claim poorly. And Mr A has spent a long time with the 
situation hanging over him, and with the worry that he will need to reimburse Admiral what it 
paid to the other driver. Its also clear that hes felt strongly that Admiral deprived him of the 
chance to defend the claim himself by admitting liability for the incident. I dont need to 
consider the ins and outs of whether its likely that Mr A would have succeeded in defending 
the claim. There would have been no question of him having to do so if Admiral hadnt 
wrongly voided his policy. But I can appreciate that the situation will have caused Mr A 
anxiety over an extended period, and I think Admiral should pay him some compensation to 
reflect this.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold the complaint, and to require 
Admiral to put things right by doing as Ive set out below.
Further submissions
Both Mr A and Admiral have provided comments on my provisional decision, which Ill 
summarise here.
Mr A says he was happy to see my provisional decision. But he doesnt believe that there 
should be any record of the accident on his insurance record, as he wasnt involved. He also 
believes that the incident should be recorded as a no-fault outcome, so that his mothers 
insurance premiums arent affected in the future.
Hes pointed out that the problem has been on-going for more than two years, and says hes 
lost nine years of no claims bonus, which will result in higher insurance costs for him going 
forward. Hes reiterated how much inconvenience the situation has caused him and his 
mother. He says his father was unable to insure him on his car, due to the ongoing situation 
with Admiral. And he says his mother, who is elderly and struggles to move around without a 
vehicle, hasnt been able to drive for two years.
Admiral doesnt accept my provisional decision. It says that according to the UK Government 
website, a UK resident is defined by how many days a person spends in the UK, where they 
work, and where they pay tax. It says it hasnt received any evidence that Mr A pays tax in 
the UK.Admiral says that its own guidelines would usually require a customer to spend at least six 
months in the UK to be classed as resident for the purposes of a motor insurance policy. 
And it says it asks customers to tell it if they plan to leave the UK for more than 30 days to 
ensure that it can continue insurance arrangements while theyre away  or to allow the 
customer to make alternative arrangements if it cant do so.
It says that information it received during the claim indicated that Mr A was now living 
overseas and had done for some time, although his car remained in the UK. It says it hasnt 
received enough information from Mr A to enable it to determine whether he can be classed 
as resident in the UK. But it says that the anecdotal information its received about his work 
and travel suggest that the Home Office Statutory Residency Tests would be likely to class 
Mr A as non-resident.
Admiral has suggested that a more suitable approach might have been for it to reject the 
claim, pending receipt of evidence from Mr A that he had spent, or intended to spend, at 
least 183 days in the UK. But it says that based on the evidence it had, Mr A was spending 
at least 199 days outside the UK. So it doesnt think Mr A would have been able to provide 
the necessary proof. And the underwriter decided to void the policy based on what it 
believed would have been received from Mr A.
Id previously asked Admiral to provide evidence of the questions that Mr A was asked when 
he applied for, and renewed, the policy. Following my provisional decision, Admiral has said 
that during the quotation process, Mr A was asked for his address. It says he gave his 
parents address and didnt subsequently amend that information, even though it says it 
knows that he wasnt living there by 2019, when he last renewed the policy.
As to residency, Admiral says Mr A was asked How long have you lived in the UK 
continuously for? Its explained that there was a help button with the following note 
Insurers want to know how long you have lived in the UK on a continuous basis  that is, 
without any breaks lasting six months or longer. It says Mr A responded Since Birth. 
Admiral says its possible that the answer was true in 2017 when Mr A originally applied for 
the policy. But it believes that this answer wasnt correct when the claim was made, and 
hadnt been for some time. 
Turning to the requirement to notify Admiral if the policyholder was leaving the UK for more 
than 30 days without the car, Admiral says it disagrees that it was hidden on p.30 of a 37-
page document. It says it asks about this, and provides help text about it during the 
quotation process. And it says its shown on the Insurance Product Information Document 
under the heading What are my obligations, and is on pages 6 and 20 of the policy booklet.
Admiral says that if Mr A had contacted it and explained the situation, it would have 
cancelled his policy and suggested that a policy be taken out in one of his parents names 
instead. This is on the basis that they were resident in the UK, and were effectively the main 
users of the car. 
Finally, Admiral has reiterated that it believes that the way it dealt with the third-party claim 
was correct. But it accepts that it should have requested the consistency report sooner. And 
it says its willing to pay Mr A a further £100 in compensation to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having thought carefully about all the evidence and everything that Mr A and Admiral have 
said, Im not persuaded that theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision. Ill deal with the parties further comments in turn, staring with what 
Admiral has said.
It isnt clear from Admirals submissions whether it asked Mr A about his residency during 
the renewal process. Its only referred to the quotation process. But even if Mr A was asked 
the same questions at renewal, with the same help information available, the longest 
period Admirals referred to Mr A having been out of the UK for is less than four months. The 
help text clearly explained that for the purposes of the policy resident meant living in the 
UK on a continuous basis meant without any gaps of six months or longer. So I think Mr A 
would have been entitled to assume that Admiral would have been satisfied that he was 
resident for its purposes, regardless of any definition of resident on government websites 
or elsewhere.
It follows that Im not satisfied that Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, or that there was any misrepresentation on his part. So I dont find that 
Admiral was entitled to void his policy.
Ive considered what Admirals said about the requirement to notify it of absences from the 
UK of more than 30 days. The provision on p.6 of the policy document its referred to is a 
requirement for the policyholder to tell it if they stop being resident in the UK. And for the 
reasons Ive already set out, Im satisfied, based on the evidence provided, that there would 
have been no reason for Mr A to think that hed stopped being resident in the UK for 
Admirals purposes. 
The provision on p.20 of the policy booklet that Admirals referred to is General Condition 14 
 the provision its referred to all along. That was on page 30 of the document that Admiral 
sent us with its file. But I dont regard the positioning of the provision on page 20, rather than 
page 30, as significantly less tucked away, as I put it in my provisional decision. 
I remain of the view that the requirement wouldnt have been one that Mr A would 
necessarily have expected. And if Admiral wanted to rely on it to decline a claim, it should 
have drawn Mr As attention very clearly to it. I acknowledge that Admirals provided an 
extract from the Insurance Policy Information Document, which includes the requirement 
near the bottom of a list of the policyholders obligations. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that this requirement was highlighted when Mr A renewed the policy.
Even if Mr A had told Admiral that he was going abroad for more than 30 days without his 
car, it seems unlikely that the end result would have been that it would have ended up 
looking to Mr A to reimburse the money it paid to settle the third-party claim. Its not clear to 
me that the risk to Admiral would have been significantly greater, given that Mr A kept the 
car at his parents house. But if Admiral had done as it says it would have done, and 
cancelled the policy and suggested that it was reissued in one of Mr As parents names 
instead, I think the most likely outcome would have been that it would have paid the third-
party claim without looking to Mr A to reimburse it.
Taking everything into account, my view remains that it was unfair of Admiral to void Mr As 
policy, and unfair of it to expect him to reimburse the money it paid to the third party or any 
other costs.
Turning to Mr As further comments, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that its appropriate his insurance record shows that a named driver on his policy had an 
accident. And Im satisfied that its reasonable that the claim should be recorded as a fault 
claim, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.I can understand the frustration, stress and inconvenience that the situation has caused 
Mr A over an extended period. But Im satisfied that the further £400 that I recommended 
that Admiral pay him is fair and reasonable to reflect this.
Taking everything into account, and in summary, my view remains that Admiral was wrong to 
void Mr As policy, and it dealt poorly with the situation surrounding the third partys claim, 
causing Mr A stress and inconvenience over an extended period. And my view about what 
Admiral should do to put this right remains as I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Admiral should:
Reinstate the 2019 policy voided by Admiral;
Remove any references to the policy having been voided on internal and external 
databases;
Not pursue Mr A for recovery of the money it paid to the third party, or for any other 
costs relating to the alleged incident in August 2019;
Pay Mr A a further £400 (in addition to the £100 already paid to him) to apologise for 
the stress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of the wrongful voiding of 
his policy and its poor handling of the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman