DRN-3325990
The complaint
Mr T complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) wont refund a payment 
he made using his credit card account for a cruise which he cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr T paid £4,826.76 for a cruise for himself and his wife. (He used his JLFS credit 
card account to pay £4,326.76 of this on 12 January 2020.)
Increasingly worried about Covid-19  and the high infection rates on cruise ships 
and, sadly, deaths as a result  Mr T cancelled the cruise on 10 March 2020.
The cruise provider (the supplier) refunded 30% of the total price  £1,448.02  in 
accordance with the terms and conditions.
The cruise was subsequently cancelled by the supplier on 23 March 2020.
As Mr Ts attempts to get a full refund from the supplier were unsuccessful, he 
contacted JLFS. He asked it to refund the money either as a chargeback or under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
JLFS wrote to Mr T on 2 April 2020 to say it was unable to submit a chargeback 
claim as the supplier had provided a refund in line with the terms and conditions. 
Using the name of a different part of its business, it later wrote to Mr T to decline his 
section 75 claim as there hadnt been a breach of contract  it specifically referred to 
a force majeure clause in the contract.
Mr T then referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think JLFSs decision not to attempt a chargeback 
claim or refund the money under section 75 of the CCA was unfair in the 
circumstances.
Mr T strongly disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has been clear from the outset: he thinks the supplier has been unreasonably inflexible 
given the exceptional circumstances, and its decision to keep 70% of the total price, when it 
cancelled the cruise a few weeks later, is morally wrong. He says he cancelled the cruise 
because of a force majeure and he thinks its unjust for JLFS to decline his claim, and that 
the terms and conditions it has cited are totally inequitable. Mr T says JLFS hasnt 
considered the wider circumstances and has asked that I consider his reasons for cancelling 
the cruise carefully as he sincerely believes he had no alternative  it was, quite literally, a 
life-and-death situation. Hes asked that I look at the big picture, and not just the one-sided 
terms and conditions of the supplier. And hes stressed that most other cruise providers had 
already cancelled their cruises and provided full refunds when he cancelled his cruise.
Mr T also asked our service to try to negotiate a compromise with JLFS, and attempt to 
secure an ex-gratia payment. He says hes very disappointed that our investigator didnt do 
this  and hes asked that I contact JLFS to try to negotiate a compromise.
First, my role is to make a final decision. JLFS has made its position clear  and I dont it 
would appropriate to try to negotiate a compromise on behalf of Mr T.
Second, I think its important I clarify why JLFS is involved  after all, it isnt a party to the 
underlying contract, and it didnt receive and it hasnt kept any of the money Mr T paid for the 
cruise.
Above, Ive explained that JLFS first considered whether to submit a chargeback claim.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, JLFS doesnt set the rules. And I cant 
change their meaning or interpret them widely.
JLFS chose not to attempt a chargeback claim because Mr T cancelled the booking and the 
supplier provided a refund in line with the terms and conditions.
Ive carefully considered Mastercards rules. While I appreciate that the supplier 
subsequently cancelled the cruise, it was, when Mr T cancelled the contract, able and willing 
to provide the service. Its decision not to cancel the cruise sooner, even if other providers 
had, isnt relevant for the purposes of a chargeback claim  so JLFS couldnt take this into 
account. Let me explain: alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard helpfully issued guidance 
during the pandemic. The guidance it issued at the start of April 2020 makes it clear that 
there is no chargeback right if the cardholder chose not to use an available service following 
precautionary advice or to avoid mandated quarantines upon arrival, or the cardholder could 
not to use an available service because of travel restrictions.
In the circumstances, I dont think JLFSs decision not to attempt a chargeback claim was 
unfair or unreasonable.
JLFS then considered a claim under section 75 of the CCA  albeit using the name of a 
different part of the business.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, the credit provider (JLFS) is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Thats the limit of its liability. If, as 
here, the complaint is that the terms and conditions are unfair in the context of a pandemic  
that they are, in Mr Ts words, unjust, one-sided or totally inequitable  or that the 
suppliers conduct is immoral, even if it has complied with the contract, then JLFS isnt liable 
 even if those points are well made.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr T. His decision to cancel the cruise when he did was 
eminently sensible and responsible, and hes out of his pocket through no fault of his own. 
However, I cant consider the conduct of the supplier, except in the very narrow sense of 
whether or not there was a breach of contract. And there wasnt a breach of contract in this 
case, as Mr T received a refund in line with the terms and conditions when he cancelled the 
contract. I know Mr T will be very disappointed but, given the limited scope of JLFSs liability 
 for what is, essentially, someone elses wrongdoing  I dont think it was unfair for it to 
decline Mr Ts claim under section 75 of the CCA.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman