DRN-3282088
Complaint
Miss T says that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) misled her into believing that the 
outstanding debt from her overdraft had been written off and is now unfairly seeking 
payment.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ts concerns. He that Barclays could have provided 
clearer information but that it wasnt unfairly expecting the outstanding balance to be repaid. 
Miss T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It would probably help for me to start by explaining that it doesnt appear to be in dispute that 
Miss T hasnt repaid the outstanding balance on the overdraft, or that a balance of just under 
£2,000.00 remained on the account at the time Miss T complained. And Miss T also 
acknowledges that the payments she made arent enough to have cleared the balance.
Miss T says she contacted Barclays and was told that she no longer had a balance as it had 
been cleared in line with the Consumer Credit Act. However, neither party has been able to 
provide me with a record of any such conversations and Barclays has no record of writing off 
the debt for infringements of the Consumer Credit Act or any other reason. 
Furthermore, Miss Ts recollections arent precise enough for me to make a finding in favour 
of what shes said without anything else to corroborate it. I accept that Miss T may well have 
been told that her current account had definitely been closed as this certainly was the case. 
And as she hadnt heard from Barclays for some time and this debt no longer shows on her 
credit file (presumably because the account was closed and any default was recorded some 
time ago), I can understand why Miss T may feel as though this debt was no longer an issue. 
But Ive not been provided with enough here for me to make the finding that Barclays did 
formally write the debt off or inform Miss T that she no longer had to pay it. 
I think its also worth me saying that Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. And even if Barclays had told Miss T that the debt was 
written off  for the sake of completeness Id reiterate that Im not making this finding here  
this would clearly have been done in error. There seems to be no dispute that Miss T hasnt 
made sufficient payments to repay the balance left when she switched accounts - all that has 
happened is that Miss Ts payments stopped and Barclays still wishes to collect on the 
outstanding balance. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require 
Barclays to write off a debt which has never been repaid. I appreciate that Barclays could 
have and should have been more proactive in keeping Miss T informed about the balance 
and asking her to make payment. But Im satisfied that the amount it has already paid Miss T 
for failing to do this is fair and reasonable here. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ts 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss T. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
Even though Im not upholding this complaint, Id nevertheless like to remind Barclays of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it chooses to 
continue pursuing the outstanding balance from Miss T and its the case that she is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman