DRN-2899441
The complaint
Miss J complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided her car 
insurance policy, and that it paid out too much to a third party following a claim. 
What happened
In June 2018 Miss J took out a car insurance policy underwritten by Advantage. In October 
2018 Miss J was involved in an accident, for which she admitted being at fault. Advantage 
then says it discovered only one driving conviction had been disclosed at inception (from 
2013), but there was another recorded for her in 2017. The insurer wrote to Miss J to ask 
about the missing conviction, and she responded that shed told the advisor about it during 
the set-up call. 
In November 2018 Advantage wrote to Miss J to say it had reviewed the set-up call and she 
hadnt disclosed the later driving conviction. The letter also said the insurer wouldnt have 
offered cover if it had known about the second conviction  therefore, under provisions of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, it was entitled to avoid the 
policy back to inception. Advantage said it was still required to deal with the third partys 
claim, though there was no cover in place for the accident in October 2018  and would do 
so on the best possible terms. 
Miss J says she didnt get that letter, but called up a short while after it was sent to discuss 
the claim. On finding out the policy had been voided she raised a complaint, and also said a 
lack of communication had meant shed been driving without insurance for a number of 
days. Advantage issued its final response to Miss Js complaint in December 2018. The 
response said it had correctly avoided the policy, but the explanation of why it had done that 
had been vague. So the insurer offered £100 compensation for the poor service given. 
In 2019 Advantage contacted Miss J to confirm it had settled the third partys claim, and 
outlined what it was seeking to recover from her. Miss J raised a second complaint about the 
amount paid by Advantage to the third party  saying it seemed disproportionate to the 
incident. She was also still unhappy about the policy being voided. Advantage eventually 
responded to the complaint in December 2019, and said the policy voidance had been dealt 
with under its previous response, and so wouldnt be revisited. On the issue of the costs 
involved, the insurers letter said it had seen evidence corroborating them from the third 
party  and so paid out on that basis. 
Miss J wasnt happy with response, and so referred the matters to our service for review. An 
investigator here thought the complaint about the policy voidance had been brought too late 
 as shed referred it more than six months after first final response in 2018. The investigator 
did review the amount that Advantage was seeking and thought it was fair, given the 
evidence of the costs the insurer had received from the third party. Miss J didnt accept the 
investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision on the matter.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to set out the scope of our jurisdiction in this complaint  and what aspects I 
have the power to review. Our service can consider a wide variety of complaints about 
financial services, but we cant consider every complaint thats referred to us. The Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) set out which complaints we can and cant consider, and these are 
found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. The rules include time limits for 
referring a complaint. 
DISP 2.8.2 says our service can only consider a complaint if its referred within six months of 
the date of the respondents final response. That is, unless the respondent consents to us 
looking into it anyway, or the delay in the referring the matter was the result of exceptional 
circumstances. Advantage issued its final response on the complaint about the policy being 
voided in December 2018. In it the insurer outlined that Miss J had six months to refer the 
matter to us for review if she remained unhappy. As Miss J didnt refer that complaint to us 
within six months (she first contacted our service in May 2020), and Advantage hasnt 
consented to us looking into it, Ive gone on to consider whether there are any exceptional 
circumstances that explain the delay. 
The example of exceptional circumstances given in the rules is the where the complainant is 
or was incapacitated. Miss J has said that she didnt refer the complaint about the policy 
being voided, and the communication around that decision, following the 2018 final response 
because she hadnt suffered a loss at that point. But Miss Js policy had been voided  and 
the response was clear that the insurer was standing by that decision. Though I appreciate 
Miss J didnt realise Advantage would still seek to recover any amount it ended up paying 
out to the third party, if she wanted us to review a complaint about the voidance then it 
needed to be referred within six months of the December 2018 letter. I dont consider there 
are exceptional circumstances that explain the delay in coming to us. 
Miss J has said the matters shes referred are inextricably linked, and all related to the 
decision to void the policy. But as the complaint about the voidance wasnt referred to us in 
time, our service has no power to look into that matter now. We are, though, able to review 
the complaint addressed by the final response issued in December 2019  which covers the 
amount paid to the third party  as that was referred within the six-month window. 
Miss J didnt sign the consent and indemnity form allowing Advantage to deal with the third 
partys claim on her behalf. But by accepting liability in the accident Miss J also accepted 
she would be responsible for the resulting costs. The insurer settled the claim on Miss Js 
behalf, and I think it did so fairly in order to minimise its potential outlay. Had Miss J decided 
to challenge the amounts claimed, additional court costs would have been incurred  and 
Advantage would have been required to settle the judgement according to the provisions of 
the Road Traffic Act 1988. The insurer would have then passed those additional legal 
expenses onto Miss J. So, when considered alongside the strength of the supporting 
evidence for the costs, I consider Advantage acted reasonably when it decided to settle the 
third partys claim.
Miss J has said she wasnt kept updated with the progress of the claim. But Im not 
persuaded shes been prejudiced by that, as I dont consider its likely shed have been able 
to successfully challenge the amounts involved. The third party provided evidence of the 
repairs done and the cost, as well as a medical report detailing the treatment required. 
Theres also an invoice for the hire costs, which show a like to for like replacement (similar 
class) was provided to the third party while their vehicle was repaired. The insurer said on 
that basis it didnt think the costs could be disputed, as they were in line with what a court 
would likely agree to  and I find that approach to have been fair.I appreciate what Miss J has said about the impact in the accident being minor, and that she 
feels the evidence has been fabricated to inflate the claim. But having reviewed it myself, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest thats the case  nor have I said any strong evidence to refute 
amounts claimed. So based on the proof presented by the third party I think the insurer 
acted fairly by not risking further costs in challenging the amount sought. So Im satisfied 
Advantage can fairly recover its outlay from Miss J  and the amount its seeking is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The delay in getting an answer to her complaint about the costs would have been frustrating, 
as Miss J believed the insurer was no longer pursuing her. But ultimately I dont consider 
shed be in a materially different position had Advantage given her an answer sooner. I also 
havent seen anything to persuade me the delay in responding caused Miss J additional 
distress and inconvenience that warrants an award above the £50 already offered.  
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman