DRN-3149697
The complaint
Mrs S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to service her boiler as part of her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs S says her boiler should have been serviced in the policy year 2017/2018, but this didnt 
happen. She contacted British Gas and it offered her a discount to sign up for another year. 
She says the company has since said it has no record of this. She attempted to arrange a 
service in the 2020/2021 policy year but found this extremely difficult using both the online 
portal and telephone contact methods.
Mrs S says her boiler hasnt been serviced and she hasnt received the benefit from the 
policy she paid for. She says the company should refund the premiums she paid. Mrs S has 
since arranged for quotes for a new boiler, and a new service plan. She says this wouldnt 
have been needed had British Gas serviced her boiler. She thinks it reasonable for the 
company to make a contribution toward the cost of a replacement. 
British Gas acknowledges it didnt service Mrs Ss boiler in the policy years 2017/2018 and 
2020/21. It says it cant ascertain what the issues were that meant she couldnt book a 
service. But says it has no records of telephone contact from her. British Gas paid Mrs S 
£230 in compensation for the missed services and the difficulties arranging appointments. 
However, it rejected her request for a refund of premiums, as it says she benefitted from the 
cover provided by its policy.    
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator decided not to uphold her 
complaint. She thought that although British Gas didnt carry out all the required services, it 
had been fair in paying compensation to acknowledge this and for the difficulties Mrs S 
found when booking a service. She didnt agree that a refund of premiums was appropriate 
or that it was fair for the company to contribute toward the cost of a new boiler. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mrs S, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
From the records provided a policy was agreed by Mrs S in October 2017. But this was 
cancelled later the same month. No service was carried out, or required, in relation to this 
policy because of the cancellation. 
A new policy was later agreed in October 2018 and the records show an engineer carried 
out a first visit in the same month the policy commenced. British Gas says there was an 
issue with some direct debit payments not being received, which resulted in a further 
cancellation of the policy. A new policy was then started in April 2019. 
British Gas says a service was completed in January 2020, which covers the period for 
2019/2020. But for the policy year April 2020 to April 2021 no service was carried out. It says 
it sent reminders to Mrs S. And has supplied copies of letters it sent in March and April 2021 
to support this. However, I acknowledge Mrs Ss comments that she experienced great 
difficulty trying to arrange a service around this time. 
I have read the policy terms to understand what should happen regarding annual servicing. 
The terms say a service is required within each period of agreement. I understand this 
means it should happen within 12 months of the policy start date. Based on the information 
discussed above, this happened for the 2018/2019 policy year, which ran from October. And 
for 2019/2020 policy year which ran from April. But a service wasnt completed for the 
2020/2021 year. 
Mrs S disputes that a service took place in January 2020 for the 2019/2020 policy year. She 
has queried the engineer records, which show two visits took place, as she doesnt think this 
is correct. She also says she was constantly trying to book a service around this time, which 
demonstrates that a service hadnt been carried out. 
The engineer records dont specifically mention that a service was completed in January 
2020. British Gas was asked about this. It says its engineers will carry out a service, if one is 
due, at the same time they are completing a repair. It says this is what happened in January 
2020.
British Gas says paperwork will have been left with Mrs S by its engineer. Although, its not 
clear Mrs S has this. However, it has also supplied records that show details of the tests its 
engineer carried out in January 2020. I understand Mrs S has seen a copy of this 
information. This shows visits took place over two days in January. British Gas explains that 
the boiler was tested on the first visit along with fitment of the Hive system. It says a part was 
required, so this was ordered and fitted the next day. From the records, I note this related to 
a pump and wiring harness. 
Based on the records and explanations provided, I think its reasonable to accept that a 
service was carried out on Mrs Ss boiler by British Gas in January 2020.
Having considered all of this, I think its fair that British Gas compensates Mrs S for the boiler 
service that wasnt completed in the 2020/2021 policy year. I accept reminders were sent to 
Mrs S to arrange an appointment. But I have no reason to doubt her account of the difficulty 
she experienced when trying to contact the company. This has clearly caused her frustration 
and worry and its reasonable that she is compensated. 
British Gas has already provided a total payment of £230. This is to acknowledge the 
missing boiler service and the poor experience Mrs S had when attempting to arrange a 
service. In the circumstances described I think this is fair. 
I dont agree with Mrs S that British Gas should refund the premiums she paid for her policy. 
The policy provided cover for repairs in addition to servicing, which she benefitted from. So, I 
dont think its fair that it refunds these payments. Similarly, Im not persuaded that the 
company should contribute towards the cost of a new boiler. As above, Im satisfied a 
service did take place in January 2020. A service wasnt arranged in 2021. But had this 
taken place I dont think its been shown that this will have prevented the need for a 
replacement boiler.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman