DRN-3602914
The complaint
Mr R complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc have held him responsible for transactions he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr R became aware of a withdrawal from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) that he didnt 
recognise and spoke with AIB about it. It then became apparent that there were a number of 
other withdrawals that Mr R didnt recognise stretching back about four years and totalling 
around £1,000.
AIB temporarily credited the initial withdrawal while they looked into what had happened and 
once theyd completed their own enquiries, they believed Mr R had authorised the payment 
and AIB took back the refund.
Mr R complained to AIB and explained that he rarely used the ATM in question and still had 
possession of his card and hadnt revealed the Personal Identification Number (PIN) to 
anyone else. Mr R reported the matter to the police. During their enquiries, the police 
obtained the CCTV footage, but it was unclear who was using the ATM, although the size 
and build of the person made it unlikely to be Mr R.
Mr R was told that cards could be skimmed and the PIN obtained by various means and he 
believed this was the reason for the unauthorised use of his card. AIB didnt change their 
position because Mr R still had possession of his card and they believed the genuine card 
had been used to make the withdrawals.
Mr R then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the complaint. Mr R re-iterated the events that had happened and remained convinced 
that his card had been copied by others and used without his permission.
AIB provided details about the withdrawals including the data related to how the payments 
were made. After investigating the complaint, our investigator didnt uphold it because there 
was no explanation how someone could repeatedly obtain Mr Rs genuine card and obtain 
the PIN in order to use it without his knowledge.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators outcome and repeated his assertion that his card had 
been copied. In a later conversation with the police, they didnt believe he was responsible 
for the transactions. Mr R asked for a further review of his complaint by an Ombudsman.
Mr R was concerned about his complaint to the extent that he wrote to me about it. Mr R 
remained convinced that the withdrawals were the result of criminal action, but was worried 
that by complaining, it would appear that he was trying to somehow defraud the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to address the issue of Mr Rs complaint and his concerns. Mr R has a genuine 
belief about his complaint, and he has the right to make one. My decision will be based on 
the issue of whether AIB can hold Mr R liable for these withdrawals or not. No inference will 
be drawn about the outcome beyond that.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that AIB can hold Mr R liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
AIB can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr R authorised the 
transactions, but AIB cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless AIB can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the payment 
or to debit Mr Rs account and any such transaction must be regarded as unauthorised. To 
start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows that 
the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mr R. Ill now need to 
consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres sufficient 
evidence to hold Mr R responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Authentication is important here because the data gathered by AIB when a transaction is 
made using a card reveals , amongst other things, how the card was used and which 
security features were recorded as part of the authorisation process. The evidence supplied 
by AIB shows that Mr Rs card had its embedded Chip read by the ATM when it was used. 
AIB also record a counter of use which would reveal if another cloned card was being 
used on the account.
Mr R believes that his card was skimmed or copied (also known as cloning) based on what 
the police told him. Whilst its possible to do this, and there are plenty of examples of such 
cloning, the usual method is to copy the magnetic strip on the back of the card which is more 
straightforward to clone. If the card used to withdraw funds from the ATM had been a cloned 
card, it would have returned different audit information to AIB, but that didnt happen here.
Based on what our service has seen, and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet 
to see a complaint where the Chip on a card has been cloned. So, Im satisfied that Mr Rs 
genuine card was used to make these transactions.
The critical aspects of this complaint are the fact that the genuine card was used, and that 
Mr R hadnt lost it or given anyone else the PIN. Based on the extended time period of the 
disputed transactions, it seems unlikely that an unknown person could have repeatedly 
gained access to the card, found the PIN, and used it without Mr R becoming aware of it. Mr 
R also explained that no one else in his household had used his card.
AIB provided details of a new card and PIN issued to Mr R in 2019, the records show the 
first time this was used was to make a disputed withdrawal at the ATM, which is located 
close to Mr Rs home. It seems unlikely that a second new card could have been cloned and 
the new PIN obtained by an unknown third party when it hadnt been used before. AIB also 
stated that there hadnt been any further unauthorised attempts to use the card after the 
matter was eventually reported by Mr R. This is often an indicator that whoever used the 
card was aware it had been reported. If it was an unknown third party, they would be unlikely 
to know it had been reported and just kept on trying the card until it became apparent that it 
was no longer working.
I hope from the information Ive provided that Mr R is able to recognise that these withdrawals couldnt have been made with a cloned card and that its implausible to think an 
unknown third party was responsible. Because there doesnt appear to be a reasonable 
explanation for how the card and its PIN were compromised, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr R was responsible for authorising these transactions or allowing someone else to 
use his card. I think its reasonable for AIB to hold him responsible for these transactions.
I realise Mr R has a genuine belief about what happened, which was the reason he made a 
complaint. But, whilst he may disagree with my decision, Ive made it based on an objective 
review of the available evidence.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman