DRN-2021882
 
The complaint
Mr M says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says Morses kept giving him 
loans without checking his details. And this caused him financial problems.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
This complaint is about four home collected credit loans Morses provided to Mr M between April 
2016 and February 2018.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 29/04/2016 £300 33 11/10/2016
2 11/10/2016 £600 33 19/05/2017
3 19/05/2017 £1,000 52 21/02/2018
4 21/02/2018 £1,500 52 12/02/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on 
our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid 
(reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender 
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive provisionally decided to uphold
Mr Ms complaint. Im thinking about awarding compensation in respect of loans 3 and 4 and Ive 
explained why.
Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Morses. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
For loan 3 Mr M needed to repay £35 a week over the coming year. Mr Ms recorded income was 
£260 a week and this was comprised of benefits only. I think this repayment amount is a significant 
proportion of his income and its likely, on its own, that Mr M would struggle to make these 
repayments over this length of time.
Ive looked at the information recorded about Mr Ms expenditure to see if Morses couldve been 
certain it was affordable. Mr Ms expenditure was shown to be around £120 a week. Although the 
details Morses collected about this seem to be very sparse. And I can see at loan 3 its recorded that 
he doesnt make any contribution to the mortgage or rent he and his partner pay. But at loan 1 it was 
shown that he did contribute to this. So, Im not really persuaded the information Morses collected 
about Mr Ms finances was a true reflection of his circumstances.
So Ive taking into account the amount and source of his income and the uncertainty surrounding his 
expenditure. Ive also taken into account the fact Mr M had already been indebted to Morses for over 
a year at this point and he was now making a commitment to make significant repayments for another 
year. All of this leads me to conclude that the repayments for loans 3 and 4 were unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable. As such, I dont think that Morses shouldve approved loans 3 and 4 to Mr M 
and Im planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint about these loans.
Morses, and Mr M, confirmed they received my provisional decision. Morses didnt have 
anything to add after theyd seen it. Mr M agreed with My earlier decision. He did provide 
some information about his employment but this doesnt change my findings above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Morses and Mr M didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. And Ive explained 
below what Morses needs to do put things right. 
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Mr M loans loans 3 and 4.
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if Morses is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then 
Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr M having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Morses shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Morses have already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation 
to loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr M ask for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint. Morses Club PLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman