DRN-4293351
The complaint
Mrs B complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited wont refund her for some 
accommodation.
 
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs B used her John Lewis credit card to make a booking for just over 
£270 for what she thought was a hotel. On arrival at accommodation in October 2022 she 
says she realised the accommodation didnt have a restaurant, wasnt as near to the town as 
advertised and didnt have the amenities she expected. So she left and found suitable 
accommodation nearby. Thereby having to pay twice for accommodation. Mrs B says she 
explained to the accommodation the issue when she had arrived, but it wouldnt refund her.
So she complained to John Lewis about being misrepresented into making the booking. 
John Lewis looked into the matter and has said it didnt consider Mrs Bs dispute should be 
successful through either chargeback or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think John Lewis had acted unfairly by declining 
Mrs Bs request for a refund. Mrs B didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the accommodation, or the website 
Mrs B used to find the accommodation, which arent financial services providers and dont 
fall within my remit regarding chargeback or Section 75. Whatever the issues there maybe 
with the accommodation or the website and just because Mrs B says she has lost out here, it 
doesnt necessarily follow that John Lewis has treated Mrs B unfairly or that it should refund 
her. And this decision is solely about how John Lewis treated Mrs B. I hope this point is 
sufficiently clear.
Theres no dispute that Mrs B used her John Lewis card to make the booking.
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute regarding a transaction, as Mrs B 
does here, John Lewis (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. 
I dont think John Lewis couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs B didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusion on this issue that Ive already set out.
John Lewis is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. And if John Lewis takes the chargeback as far as it 
can then the scheme provider (not John Lewis) will then make an independent determination 
on the matter. So John Lewis isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or 
not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Here John Lewis didnt raise a chargeback. It said it didnt consider Mrs B had a reasonable 
prospect of success because it says the accommodation didnt advertise it had a restaurant, 
didnt call itself a hotel and its location in relation to the town wasnt misrepresented. It said it 
also considered that a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
should be unsuccessful also.
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the accommodation. 
However I dont think I need to make findings on these requirements because Im satisfied 
Mrs B hasnt been misrepresented to and Im not persuaded there has been a breach of 
contract either. Ive also decided that a chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
success and that a S75 claim should be unsuccessful for the following reasons. 
Ive considered the advert carefully. It is of note that the accommodation doesnt call itself a 
hotel in the main description section of the advert. It lists it amenities and in the list there is 
no mention of a restaurant. So it hasnt falsely claimed to have a restaurant. Mrs B points to 
the fact she used the search criteria of hotel. However the website search criteria for your 
stay is based on location and dates. It specifically says when you search that it will provide 
listings of hotels, homes and much more. So clearly all types of accommodation will come 
up in the search. 
Mrs B also points to the presence of the word hotel in the description. Ive considered this 
point specifically and I note that it is present towards the bottom of the description and is in a 
standardised listing section of the advert setting out the amenities of the accommodation 
(parking and internet). Throughout the rest of advert the accommodation is referred to as the 
property. It makes very clear all the services it provides and in the section relating to meals 
it says breakfast is included. There is no mention of a restaurant or the provision of other 
meals. Mrs Bs argument seems to be here that because the word hotel is present that must 
mean a restaurant is expected to be present. However the advert makes no mention of a 
restaurant and makes clear the only meal provided is breakfast. So considering the advert in 
the round Im not persuaded Mrs B has been misrepresented here about the 
accommodations services.
Ive considered Mrs B arguments about the accommodation being more than the 450m from 
centre. She says its nearer a kilometre away and provides a map to show that, however I 
note on that map shes provided shes arbitrarily decided where the centre is. Clearly the 
towns centre could be defined in a variety of ways including where the centre is and how 
large the centre would be. Im not persuaded that this statement in the advert is factually 
incorrect due to the subjectivity of what the centre is and considering the location of the 
accommodation in relation the majority of shops and amenities nearby.
Mrs B argues why would she decide on arrival that the property didnt meet her needs unless 
shed been misrepresented to. Im not persuaded by this argument. Its clear from Mrs Bs 
own testimony that she was expecting the accommodation to have a restaurant despite the 
fact that the advert makes no mention of a restaurant and makes clear it only provides 
breakfast. It seems clear Mrs Bs expectations werent in line with the description provided. 
And those expectations were not due to the description in the advert.
Mrs B says there is a lack of transparency in the advert. Im not persuaded by this. I think the 
advert makes clear what the accommodation provides. It is not the responsibility of the 
advert if Mrs B makes assumptions about the hotels amenities which werent listed on the 
accommodations list of amenities.Mrs B says that the money for the booking was taken earlier than she expected. Ive 
considered the terms and conditions and Im not persuaded there was a failing there. And in 
any event Mrs B says she arrived at the accommodation on the day of the booking. And 
considering the terms it is clear the full amount is chargeable whether Mrs B stayed or left 
the property as she has explained.
Ive also considered Mrs Bs comments in response to the assessment of the investigator. 
She says that because of what she describes as misrepresentations there is no contract 
here. Mrs Bs analysis fails for two reasons, firstly Im not persuaded that there are material 
misrepresentations here, so I see no persuasive reason to consider John Lewis 
consideration of a S75 claim here to be incorrect. And secondly even if Mrs Bs arguments 
were persuasive it wouldnt void the completed contract between Mrs B and the 
accommodation, it would require John Lewis to provide remedy on a like basis to Mrs B as if 
it were the accommodation.
In summary I think that Mrs B hasnt lost out here due to what John Lewis did. I think John 
Lewis made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback. And I dont think it could be held 
responsible under S75 either as Im not persuaded a material misrepresentation or breach of 
contract has been made out as the booking was provided (but not utilised by Mrs B). So I 
dont think I can fairly require John Lewis to refund Mrs B. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
Mrs B has asked whether this decision precludes her from taking the matter to court. If she 
doesnt accept this decision there is nothing to stop her taking the matter to court as this 
decision is only binding if she accepts it. However I would urge Mrs B to take independent 
legal advice (at her own cost) before embarking on such a course of action in order to be 
able to make an informed decision about such legal action and the consequences and 
ramifications of such.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mrs B wants to read. But I dont think John Lewis 
treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman