DRN-3055913
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) havent 
provided Mr T with the contractual benefits that he was entitled to through his Barclaycard. 
 
What happened
Mr T holds an infinite account with Barclaycard. He pays £150 per year for his card, and as 
part of his package, he received Barclays Infinite Travel Insurance and a Priority Pass which 
gives him airport lounge access. 
In October 2020 Mr T was refused access to an airport lounge as his Priority Pass had 
expired on 2 September 2020. Mr T told us that he had clients with him at the time and this 
caused him embarrassment.  
On 7 October 2020 he complained to Barclaycard about this and also because he was 
concerned about whether he was covered by their travel insurance for an impending trip. 
On 27 October 2020 an adviser at Barclaycard confirmed to Mr T that the travel insurance 
was separate from the Priority Pass and that he did have travel insurance cover. She also 
got the Priority Pass reinstated by 28 October 2020. 
 
Mr T complained to Barclaycard.  They provided a final response in November 2020. They 
apologised for the embarrassment caused to Mr T when he tried to use his Priority Pass 
membership, and for causing him worry about whether he had travel insurance cover. They 
confirmed that he had always held the insurance, and that the Priority Pass was erroneously 
not active from 2 September 2020 to 30 October 2020. It was reinstated after his complaint 
on 28 October 2020. They paid him £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr T wasnt happy with this and so he brought his complaint to us.  
  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts case. She thought that Barclaycards offer was 
fair.   
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Barclaycard have accepted that they made an error and Mr Ts Priority Pass wasnt auto 
renewed as it should have been. Once they became aware of this, they contacted Priority 
Pass, and it was reinstated.  Mr T was without his Priority Pass for a period of 8 weeks. The 
question is whether Barclaycard have compensated Mr T adequately for the inconvenience 
and embarrassment caused.  
In respect of the Infinite Travel Insurance policy, I am satisfied that it was in place throughout 
and so there was no error, and no loss of benefit. I appreciate that Mr T had some concern 
about whether he had insurance cover when he discovered that his Priority Pass wasnt in 
place, but as he has noted in his correspondence to us, he knew the Priority Pass and travel 
insurance were separate benefits. I can see that Barclaycard sent Mr T a travel insurance 
benefits reminder on 27 August 2020, and also note that in the insurance schedule 
document provided to Mr T is clear that The benefits summarised in this document are 
dependent upon you being a valid Barclays Infinite Card Cardholder, being under age 80, at 
the time of booking any trip., and so whilst he might have been concerned, he would have 
been able to rely on this schedule as evidence of cover. Barclaycard have confirmed that the 
travel insurance policy is not an individual policy held by Mr T, but a policy held by 
Barclaycard, and proof of cover under the policy is holding an active infinite account, and so 
I am satisfied there was no gap in cover.    
I can see that Mr T was also unhappy that Barclaycard didnt provide him with an immediate 
response when he raised his concerns with them. The concerns were raised on 7 October 
2020, and a response was sent on 8 October 2020, within 24 hours, acknowledging the 
complaint and advising that it had been escalated. I can see that when Mr T contacted them 
on 27 October to advise he was travelling the next day, the adviser got the Priority Pass 
reinstated within 24 hours and contacted Mr T to advise him, leaving a voicemail.
I can understand why Mr T found the situation that occurred at the airport with clients 
embarrassing, but I am satisfied that Barclaycard have dealt with his complaint fairly and 
reasonably, and that that £100 is fair compensation for the temporary loss of Priority Pass 
benefit, any embarrassment caused, and the concerns he had about travel insurance cover.     
In view of that I will not be asking Barclaycard to do anything further. 
I note that Barclaycard have already paid Mr T the £100.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard.  
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman