DRN-3544962
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) said cover for Covid-19 
would be provided if a trip had to be cancelled. But when they submitted a claim, it was then 
declined.
Any reference to URV includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance policy which was underwritten by URV. 
The policy covered the period from 18 December 2020 to 17 December 2021.
They were due to go on holiday in August 2020 but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they 
werent able to, and had to cancel their holiday. They submitted a claim to URV for the 
cancellation costs. On 21 October 2020, part of the claim was settled. The remaining part of 
the claim was then settled in November 2020 following two telephone calls Mrs G had with 
URV in October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs G had another trip booked for late November 2021. During the second call Mrs 
G had on 22 October 2020 with URV, she discussed the ongoing claim at the time with the 
advisor. As their policy was due for renewal in December 2020, Mrs G then also asked about 
cover for their trip that they had planned for November 2021. She says, in this call, the 
advisor explained if they renewed their existing policy, they would have cover for Covid-19 in 
case of cancellation. 
Mr and Mrs G renewed the annual travel insurance policy with URV, and cover started on 
18 December 2020 and expired on 17 December 2021.
Mr and Mrs G werent able to travel in late November 2021 due to travel restrictions in the 
country they were intending to travel to. They managed to get a refund for their 
accommodation. They had also booked a train trip and, initially, the provider said Mr and Mrs 
G wouldnt receive a refund for this. But it subsequently refunded 90% of the cost of the 
tickets. They therefore submitted a claim for the remaining 10% of the cancelled train tickets. 
URV said they had no cover for the cancelled train trip under their policy. There was no 
cover for FCDO advice under their new policy. Mr and Mrs G werent happy and made a 
complaint. They say they were told by URV on 22 October 2020 that they would have cover 
if the trip needed to be cancelled due to Covid-19. They wanted their claim settled. 
URV reviewed the complaint and the telephone call of 22 October 2020. It said the advisor 
reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs policy information at the time and confirmed they were covered 
should their holiday be cancelled due to the Foreign and Commonwealth Development 
Office (FCDO) advising against all but essential travel. She explained the policy was due for 
renewal in December 2020 and if they didnt have travel insurance at that point then they 
would no longer have cover. She also said the policy would need to be continuous and that 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have to renew with them necessarily. URV said the information provided 
by the advisor was general and not specific. The reason for cancellation would have needed 
to be known to confirm exactly whether cover would be available or not. Mr and Mrs G had 
confirmed to URV that they didnt read through the renewal policy terms and conditions but 
thought they had cover based on the telephone conversation they had on 22 October 2020. 
URV said the responsibility is for the customer to make sure they understood the policy 
terms and conditions and that it met their needs. Mr and Mrs G would also have had 14 days 
to cancel the policy if it didnt meet their requirements. URV offered a pro rata refund of 
£59.10 if Mr and Mrs G no longer wanted the policy.
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said theres no cover under Mr 
and Mrs Gs policy for the remaining cost of the cancelled train trip. He also said hed 
listened to the call and the advice provided by URV was responding to Mrs Gs questions 
and there was nothing in the call to suggest cover for FCDO advice under the cancellation 
section would be provided regardless of what happened. Our investigator said the pro rata 
refund of the premium was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman as they disagreed 
with our investigators assessment. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The key issue I need to consider on this complaint is whether URV confirmed that Mr and 
Mrs G would be covered for cancellation on their policy for Covid-19 - regardless of the 
situation. 
The telephone call of 22 October 2020 is in dispute. So, Ive listened to that call. The first 
half of the call was in relation to Mr and Mrs Gs claim at the time for a holiday they cancelled 
and which URV settled in late 2020. The second half of the call was a discussion on what 
cover would be available for Covid-19 for a holiday that Mr and Mrs G had booked for late 
November 2021 and which she thought would likely go ahead. In summary, this is what was 
discussed:
Mrs G asked the advisor what would happen if their holiday in November 2021 didnt 
go ahead. She was concerned that a new policy may not cover for Covid-19. The 
advisor explained they would have cover while their existing policy was in place, but 
it was due for renewal in December 2020. If they renewed, then cover would continue 
but they also didnt have to renew with URV.
Cover stops if the policy expires. So, if they didnt renew or take out another policy 
then there would be no cover for the trip theyd booked for November 2021.
The advisor did search their website and found that some policies were providing 
cover for Covid-19 holiday cancellations. And she said cover was being provided if 
the policyholder got Covid-19, couldnt board a flight due to having Covid-19 and for 
cancellation due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel. There was also a lengthy discussion about whether there was a need for a travel 
policy when they werent travelling for the year except for the end of 2021. The 
advisor explained that if there was no policy in place then there would be no cover for 
their trip in November 2021.
Overall, having listened to the call, the advisor answered Mrs Gs questions based on the 
various scenarios she presented. The discussion was general and didnt give a definitive 
answer that there would be cover for Covid-19, in any given situation, should the need have 
arisen. The policy was subsequently renewed by Mr and Mrs G and, at this point, all the 
policy documents were sent to them. They would have had 14 days to read through the 
documents to ensure the renewed policy met their needs. If it didnt, they had the option to 
cancel the policy and find a suitable alternative. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G didnt read their policy documents as they believed they had 
cover based on Mrs Gs telephone conversation with the advisor on 22 October 2020. 
Theres no doubt a discussion did take place for what might be covered on the policy. But, 
Im not persuaded this discussion constituted a blanket cover for Covid-19 for any given 
situation. It was Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility to ensure the policy met their needs when they 
renewed it. URV was expected to send the documents to Mr and Mrs G and provide a 14-
day cooling-off period in case they changed their mind and wanted to cancel the policy. I 
therefore cant fairly say that URV is responsible for settling the claim. 
It's unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G had to cancel their trip again. But the policy terms and 
conditions of their renewed policy had changed and thats not something the advisor would 
have been able to foresee or have known about in October 2020. The situation was 
changing all the time and insurers reviewed the polices and cover they were offering 
because of the unprecedented circumstances of what had happened. Again, this isnt 
something the advisor would have had foresight on. Im satisfied the telephone conversation 
was general and responding to the questions Mrs G had. The onus was on Mr and Mrs G to 
ensure when the policy was renewed it met their needs. From the information available, I 
cant see that they did this. I understand its disappointing the claim isnt covered under their 
policy but I cant hold URV responsible for this. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that URV misled Mr and Mrs G that cover for Covid-19 would be 
provided for any given situation if a trip had to be cancelled. I dont think Mr and Mrs G have 
been treated unfairly or unreasonably. URV has offered a pro rata premium refund of £59.10 
which seems fair in the circumstances of this complaint. If Mr and Mrs G wish to accept this 
offer, they should contact URV directly. It follows that I dont think URV needs to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Union 
Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman