DRN-4428942
The complaint
Mr K complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) didnt settle a 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy fairly. He also complains he was unable to 
retain his vehicle. 
Markerstudy are the underwriters of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of the intermediary. As Markerstudy have accepted it is accountable for 
the actions of the intermediary, in my decision any reference to Markerstudy includes the 
actions of the intermediary. 
What happened
Mr K has a comprehensive insurance policy for his motorbike with Markerstudy. The policy 
started in April 2022. 
In October 2022 Mr K and his wife were involved in an accident. He says his bike was 
travelling at about 4mph when the third-party, who was travelling at 30mph, hit him on the 
rear left side. 
The third-party insurer accepted liability and made an offer of approximately £3,100 for the 
bike and offered to allow him to buy the bike back for £700. Markerstudy told Mr K the 
settlement was too low so Mr K would be better off going through them to settle the claim. 
Markerstudy offered Mr K the same level of settlement as the third-party insurer but said his 
bike would be classed as a category B. Mr K says he doesnt understand why its been 
categorised this way since the only damage was to parts of the bike that can be replaced.  
Mr K said the engineering report was incorrect. He says the report referenced front end 
impact but it was hit at the rear  all the evidence including photographs and the police 
report refer to rear end impact. Because Mr K wasnt happy he complained to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy accepted there were issues with the service Mr K received in that there were 
delays to get through to anyone on the phone and, when he did get through, the line 
dropped. It also accepted there was a delay in sending the engineers report to Mr K. And so 
Markerstudy awarded Mr K £125 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Markerstudy didnt accept it had handled the claim incorrectly and so didnt uphold this part 
of the complaint. Mr K wasnt happy with the response from Markerstudy so he referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked into things for him. He said he thought the motorbike needed 
to be assessed with the correct information about the accident circumstances so a fair 
determination could be made. He said he could see Mr K had raised these concerns with 
Markerstudy previously but it didnt provide him with a substantive response. He also 
recommended increasing the compensation from £125 to £200. 
Markerstudy agreed to the increase in compensation. It said the images in the report dated 
23 November 2022 suggest the front wheel has extended back into the bodywork, therefore 
possibly damaging the frame. It said the only way to be sure of this would be to have the 
bike measured on an alignment jig which wasnt economical to do; and this is why the 
category B was applied, due to possible frame distortion. Markerstudy said it wouldnt be 
able to change the category and wasnt willing to allow a potentially unsafe bike back onto 
the road. 
And so the investigator looked at things again. He said given Markerstudy reassessed the 
write off and based its opinion on expert opinion, he thought Markerstudy made a 
reasonable decision based on the evidence. Mr K didnt agree. And so the complaint has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr K. And I 
empathise with the position he finds himself in. 
My role here is to look at whether Markerstudy acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and 
within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim.
Retaining the bike
Our approach is that when a vehicle is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor 
insurance policy, as Mr Ks bike was, the insurer becomes the owner of the salvage after the 
consumer accepts payment of the bikes full market value. 
Mr Ks bike clearly means a lot to him. So when the third-party insurer intimated he might be 
able to retain the vehicle I know that would have appealed to Mr K. But Mr K didnt accept 
that offer, I know he said he followed Markerstudys advice here. So I think the third-party 
insurer raised Mr Ks expectations of a possible outcome. There is also no evidence that had 
Mr K accepted the insurers offer, that he would have been able to retain the bike.
I have looked at the section of the policy wording which says; 
if the insured vehicle is deemed to be beyond economical repair the damaged vehicle 
becomes our property once a claim is met under the policy. 
This is in line with many other policies in the market and it seems to be that it allowed 
Markerstudy to take the vehicle salvage and dispose of it how it wishes. It will do this to help 
it recover its costs from the claim. 
The policy wording doesnt say the value of the salvage is passed back to the insured 
customer, and I cant see the policy would do this. Markerstudy made a settlement offer to 
Mr K which he accepted. 
Markerstudy settled for the bike and in return ownership of the bike transferred to itself. So I 
think Markerstudys actions here have been fair and in line with my expectations. 
Category B
I can see from the file Mr K said the scratches and damage to the front of the bike were from 
wear and tear. And that the bike hadnt had any front-end impact since he had owned it. But 
I dont think whether there was damage to the front makes a difference to the outcome.Markerstudys engineer said the motorbike was uneconomical to repair so it wrote-off the 
bike as a category B, which means it cant be put back on the road, but parts from it can be 
used. Having read Markerstudys evidence, I can see the reason this category was used was 
due to potential damage to the frame. A Markerstudy engineer has made that assessment 
after inspecting the bike and I think its reasonable for me to accept that its valid. I also 
havent seen any evidence to suggest the engineers evidence is incorrect. 
Mr K isnt happy that Markerstudy disposed of the bike without his permission. He wanted to 
have his own engineer assess the bikes salvage category. But he wasnt able to since he 
had already accepted settlement and the bike had already been disposed of by the time he 
expressed that he wanted to do this. So I cant say Markerstudy did anything wrong in 
disposing of the bike when it did. 
I think it was fair for Markerstudy to rely on its engineer to help inform its decision. I can see 
why Mr K was so concerned about the claim, especially since the third-party insurer had 
given the impression he was able to keep the car. But I dont think it was wrong for 
Markerstudy to categorise the car in the way it did. It based its view on expert evidence. So I 
think it has acted in a reasonable way here. 
The engineers report 
An insurance policy provides cover in certain circumstances. For example in a road traffic 
accident the insurer will cover any damage to the vehicle that is caused by the accident. If 
there was damage that wasnt related to the accident then usually an insurer wont cover the 
costs of repairing that. 
I have carefully considered all the evidence here, including the engineers report. And while it 
doesnt detail how the accident circumstances caused the damage it describes; I havent 
seen anything to suggest the report is incorrect. Mr K says he drove the bike back from the 
scene without any incident. And all the independent evidence confirms a rear impact, with 
the bike not touching the ground. 
When Mr K raised these queries with Markerstudy it didnt provide him with an explanation. 
So I can understand why hes unhappy  especially given the bike means so much to him. 
I know Mr K feels it is unfair that he wasnt able to have his bike back. But the insurer is 
entitled to rely on the professional opinion of its expert. And Mr K had the option of saying no 
to the settlement and telling the insurer he wanted to have the bike inspected. Unfortunately 
by the time he did so, it was too late. 
I think Markerstudy made a fair decision to declare the bike a write off and is entitled to rely 
on the information provided to it by its authorised repairer. So I cant say Markerstudy acted 
unreasonably here. 
Markerstudy agreed to pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience. And I think this is 
fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by Markerstudys poor communication.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr K £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 Kiran Clair
Ombudsman