DRN-3106658
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled his request 
for a refund, following cancellation of airline flights.
At times during the complaint, Mrs F has been involved too. But for ease of reading, Ill 
primarily refer to Mr F during this decision. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr F paid for three return flights to the USA. He paid a total of £2,224.45, 
direct to an airline (who Ill refer to as X) using his John Lewis credit card. The outbound 
flight was scheduled for the end of June 2020, with the return flight scheduled for 10 days 
later. 
Towards the end of May 2020, X informed Mr F that the return flight had been cancelled, due 
to the ongoing difficulties being caused to travel by the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
information from X didnt mention the outbound flight, and whether that too had been 
cancelled, so Mrs F engaged with X on social media. It was confirmed that the outbound 
flight was also cancelled, and at this stage Mr F asked for a full refund of the ticket price. 
As X had confirmed a full refund would be given, Mr F waited to hear from them. When he 
hadnt received his refund after a couple of weeks, he engaged with X again on social 
media. It was again confirmed that a refund would be provided, although no timescale was 
given at this point. 
Mr F waited a week or so longer, and then decided to claim the refund back from JLFS. He 
was told to complete the Card Dispute Declaration Form online and submit it with the 
required evidence. Mr F did this on 21 June 2020. 
A few days later JLFS confirmed to Mr F that they needed some additional information. Mr F 
provided what he thought JLFS were requesting, along with the original declaration form. 
Mr F didnt hear from JLFS for a couple of weeks, so sent them a message on their secure 
messaging system. He wanted to know what was happening in relation to receiving his 
money back. He raised a complaint at this stage. JLFS explained to Mr F during a telephone 
call towards the end of July 2020 that the expected timescale for any matter to be 
considered was around two to three months. 
Mr F continued to ask for his complaint to be considered. JLFS responded to the complaint 
to explain that they were experiencing unprecedented demand for their service and couldnt 
fast track Mr Fs request. Mr F asked JLFS to raise a section 75 claim for him at this point. 
Despite having been told the expected timescale for a response, Mr F continued to send 
JLFS messages via their messaging service throughout August 2020. Not all of these were 
responded to by JLFS and Mr F decided to issue a County Court summons against JLFS 
and against X  this was done in early September 2020. 
JLFS responded to Mr F again on 8 September 2020 to explain that they had looked at his 
original and subsequent declaration forms, and they still needed some additional 
information. Mr F provided this information the same day. A week later, X refunded Mr F in 
full for £2,244.45. The refund came via JLFS and was credited back to Mr F on 21 
September 2020.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He said that JLFS had deliberately stalled in 
giving him his money back and had enough information from the outset to raise his claim. He 
thought their service had been appalling and he felt we should take action. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said that JLFS had explained the 
timescale to Mr F in July 2020 so, while it was regrettable that not all his messages had 
been responded to, that didnt impact the time it took JLFS to consider his claim. She also 
said that JLFS had been going through a difficult time, with more requests than ever before 
for refunds and help because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the disruption this had on 
travellers, and that had to be taken into consideration. She explained that it isnt the role of 
our service to fine or punish businesses and that, while she understood Mr Fs frustrations, 
she wouldnt be asking JLFS to do anything further. 
Mr F didnt accept this. He said JLFS had everything they needed from the outset to raise his 
claim, and by not doing so they were stalling him. He felt it was a deliberate act on their 
behalf to prevent them from having to pay their customers their money back. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see Mr F received his refund from X. Hes asked us to consider how JLFS 
handled the matter overall so Ive thought about whether anything could have been done at 
an earlier stage by them. And in this case, while I do think something could have been done 
differently, I dont think the impact on Mr F warrants an award of compensation. Ill explain 
why.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JLFS to ask for a payment Mr F made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. This whole process can take anything up to around three months. 
In Mr Fs case, I do think JLFS had enough information from the outset  when he completed 
and sent his original Card Dispute Declaration Form on 21 June 2020  to satisfy the 
applicable chargeback scheme rules. The information Mr F provided described his complaint 
in sufficient detail to be understood by all parties. He also provided proof of payment, along 
with confirmation from X that the outbound and return flights had been cancelled. Im 
satisfied that information meets the criteria set out by the chargeback scheme rules if the 
goods or services havent been provided. 
However, even though I think Mr F had provided sufficient information from the outset this 
doesnt necessarily mean that he would have had his money back any faster if JLFS had 
raised the chargeback earlier. As Ive explained, the chargeback process can take up to 
three months and Mr F received his refund from X within this period of time. So, there was 
no guarantee Mr F would have got his money back quicker through chargeback.
JLFS could also have looked at Mr Fs claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and indeed he asked them to do this at one point. I dont think it would have ben 
unreasonable however for them to have considered chargeback first as that often provides 
the most straightforward route to a refund. So, Mr F may still have had to wait for that 
process to be exhausted. And again, there was no guarantee Mr F would have received his 
money from JLFS before he got it from X given what JLFS told Mr F about the delays they 
were experiencing in assessing claims. 
JLFS have accepted that they havent responded to all Mr Fs secure messages, and that 
some of their responses could have been timelier. I agree the service provided wasnt what 
Mr F might reasonably have expected. But in considering whether they need to do anything 
to put this right I remind myself that JLFS were working through an unprecedented amount 
of cases and requests for refunds at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, whilst also 
having to adapt to their own new ways of working to ensure they maintained some service. 
And JLFS had explained that they wouldnt be fast tracking any cases, so I dont think JLFS 
would have been able to add much more to this had they replied every time Mr F had 
contacted them. All in all, I dont think JLFS actions warrant an award of compensation in 
this case. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F and I dont underestimate his strength of 
feeling about the service he feels he received. He was out of pocket for a period of time, and 
it wasnt an insignificant sum. But JLFS didnt cause this initially. X caused the initial problem 
by not refunding Mr F as promised. So, I wont be asking JLFS to do anything further here. 
Having considered all the information, I dont think JLFS have treated Mr F unfairly or 
unreasonably. My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman