DRN-4027223
The complaint
Mr T has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his Commercial and Residential Landlords Insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to AXA includes its agents and Ive mainly referred to Mr 
T in this decision as opposed to his representative.
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his Commercial and Residential Landlords Insurance policy after 
what he believed was a subsidence problem at his rental property. But when AXA looked 
into the claim for him it turned it down so Mr T instructed his own experts in support of his 
position and complained to AXA about how his claim has been handled and considered. 
AXA looked into Mr Ts complaint and agreed it hadnt advanced his claim in a timely 
manner and offered a total of £350 in acknowledgement of the poor service here. And it said 
in its final response letter (FRL) of 20 July 2022 that although it still remained of the view that 
the claim would be declined, as it felt the issue was pre-existing, it would refer the matter to 
its underwriting department for review and would then provide an update to Mr T responding 
to the claim. As Mr T remained unhappy he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
AXAs offer of £350 compensation for the delay and poor service was fair and commented 
that he didnt think AXA had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators position about the delay and poor service and 
feel that AXAs offer of compensation for this is fair. I say this as although I agree AXA have 
delayed and failed to consider Mr Ts further representations and reports in a timely manner I 
think its offer of £350 (total) compensation up to the date of its FRL on 20 July 2022 feels 
fair. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. 
This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to 
every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. And as Ive outlined to 
both sides before finalising this decision any further complaint since AXA issued its FRL 
would have to be advanced separately. So, in effect, any further issues Mr T faced after the 
FRL of 20 July 2022, including AXAs final position on how the claim will be considered will 
have to be advanced separately by Mr T. 
I know our investigator looked to comment on the decline of the claim by AXA, but I dont 
think that is appropriate in looking solely at this complaint. I say this as AXA have outlined in 
its FRL of 20 July 2022 that it thought the damage may have stemmed from before Mr T took 
out the policy and that it was referring the details and the further information provided by Mr 
T to its underwriter for review. So, AXA was clear it was awaiting a response and once it 
received this advice and comment then it would advise Mr T of the outcome and the next 
steps on the claim. 
Given this, I dont think it would be fair or appropriate to comment on this and the decline of 
the claim as AXA, at the time of the FRL that this complaint refers to, hadnt finalised the 
claim response. Ill simply leave this point to be advanced separately by Mr T and he is free 
to raise a further complaint about this and any subsequent delay. I know this isnt the 
response Mr T wanted and I note from his latest representations that AXA dont seem to 
have finalised its position on this and I would advise it to expedite matters. But I cant 
consider the finalisation of the claim as part of this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
In looking solely at the delay by AXA in advancing the claim up until the FRL of 20 July 2022 
I agree that there have been delays which AXA has acknowledged. And I agree that the 
service wasnt to the required standard. However, I feel AXAs offer of £350 by way of 
compensation for this seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman