DRN-1633532
 
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale 
as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in 
September 1995 alongside a mortgage. Mr R and Mrs R applied for the policy in a meeting. 
The mortgage and policy ended in or before June 2003.
Mr R and Mrs R say they were told obtaining a mortgage would be looked upon more 
favourably if they took out PPI. They believe Santander mis-sold the insurance to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr R and Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R and Mrs Rs case.
Santander have told our service that it is not sure how the benefit was split so it has made 
an assumption that there was a 50/50 benefit split between Mr R and Mrs R. It says it also 
doesn't know what the cost of the premium was at the date of sale. Its earliest record of this 
is August 1997 when it was £33.80. The benefit provided was recorded on the application 
form as £650 a month. In the absence of anything else, I will proceed that the benefit was 
split 50/50 between Mr R and Mrs R and will consider the costs and benefits of the policy 
based on what I have in front of me.
I have decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mr R and Mrs R say they were given the impression they had to have PPI, so 
I looked into this. I have been able to see on the mortgage application form that there 
is a section for MPPI along with a statement that asks if MPPI is required or not. It 
says "If you would like us to arrange this cover just tick the appropriate box and we 
will send you an application form" and next to this statement a box is ticked, to 
indicate Mr R and Mrs R wanted the MPPI policy. They have also signed this 
application form agreeing to the choices made in it. 
 Mr R and Mrs R say they were told they had to have MPPI if they also wanted a 
mortgage and that is why they ticked the box. I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mr R and Mrs R and Santander during the meeting. Its completely 
understandable that Mr R and Mrs Rs recollections are not detailed as the sale took 
place a number of years ago. And because of this along with what i know of 
Santander sales during this time and considering what I have seen in the sales 
documentation, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say 
Santander didnt explain that MPPI was an optional feature.
 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr R and 
Mrs R or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the information provided and in 
particular the application form, I think advice was given.
 
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr R and 
Mrs R.I say this after considering Mr R and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale. 
Because, although Mr R and Mrs R say they had sick pay they could have used (6 
months half and 6 months full pay for both of them), the MPPI policy would have paid 
out if either of them were made unemployed or if they were sick in addition to their 
means. Having the policy in place would mean Mr R and Mrs R could use any 
provisions they may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think their means are 
sufficient for me reasonably to say that they wouldnt have had a need for the policy. 
 
Mr R and Mrs R were not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits. It is unlikely Mr R and Mrs R needed better advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear information on these 
terms I dont think it would have put them off.
 
Finally, Santander have said they are not sure of the costs of the policy at the time it 
was sold. So I cant be sure that the costs were disclosed in a clear way, but even if 
Santander did, I dont think Mr R and Mrs R would have done anything differently for 
the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr R and Mrs R's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman