DRN-3500182
The complaint
Mr B complains about the customer service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc, which caused him to become concerned about the security of his account and personal 
information. He wants compensation and an apology.
What happened
Our investigator addressed a separate complaint Mr B had with RBS about them not sending 
account statements by email after his accounts were closed. Our investigator recommended 
compensation for RBS error which both Mr B and RBS accepted. That complaint is 
resolved, and this decision does not review it. Instead, this decision concerns the other 
complaint points Mr B made, which our investigator confirmed with Mr B. 
Mr Bs mother sadly passed away in 2018, after which Mr B moved to a country outside the 
United Kingdom, and he then moved to another country, where he lives currently. He 
encountered several problems with RBS in relation to his account. Among other things, he 
complained that: 
RBS linked him with two countries he has no connection with
RBS sent two card readers and debit cards by insecure means to high risk countries, 
which contradicted what it said its policy was. They also sent correspondence with an 
incorrectly spelt address.
He received an email from someone whose contact details stated another banks 
name, and he also received a letter on that banks headed paper. He was incorrectly 
told the letter may have been fraudulent.
There was a lack of acknowledgment from RBS to his communication and RBS 
hadnt tried to ring him like they said
RBS didnt provide a correspondence address on their website, so he was forced to 
communicate via their webchat 
RBS paid Mr B £250 in compensation, which Mr B believes isnt enough. But our investigator 
concluded RBS didnt need to offer further compensation. They said:
RBS admitted to making errors linking Mr B to two different countries. This was due 
to human error and not because they held incorrect information about him.
RBS complaints team deals with both RBS complaints and complaints for another 
bank, which is part of the RBS group. This explained how a headed letter for that 
bank was sent to him. RBS was mistaken to have told him that the letter may have 
been fraudulent.
Mr B was concerned about how his cards were delivered, but the cards were of 
benefit and his personal data doesnt appear to have been compromised.
RBS explained the emails Mr B sent them were forwarded to the right person but 
admits they should have been acknowledged. The lack of acknowledgement didnt 
cause delays. 
Mr B disagreed with the outcome reached by our investigator, so his complaint is with me to 
make a final decision in my capacity as an ombudsman. He thinks £500 is appropriate 
compensation for the impact RBSs errors had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised multiple points about the service he received from RBS, and I have considered 
everything he has said when reaching my decision, even if I dont comment on every specific 
event. I was sorry to hear about the passing of his mother and him not being in the best of 
health. Its understandable why he says he is more vulnerable as a result. 
I have decided not to direct RBS to pay Mr B any more compensation than he has already 
received. And, I am not directing them to issue a formal apology letter. Ill explain why. 
My role when deciding fair compensation isnt to penalise RBS for its errors, or to award a 
sum to encourage it to operate differently. Monitoring the overall conduct of a bank, and 
potentially fining them for poor conduct is the responsibility of the regulator and not our 
service. Instead, when considering compensation, I only consider the losses experienced by 
the complainant. 
RBS failed to provide the service it should have. Among other things it shouldnt have told Mr 
B he was linked to other countries when he wasnt; it should have acknowledged emails from 
him rather than only forwarding them; it should have ensured it had the correct spelling of his 
address; and it shouldnt have told him the letter headed with another banks name may 
have been fraudulent. Mr B was understandably concerned by these errors. 
Im satisfied £250 is a proportionate sum to make up for the service Mr B received. While 
RBSs errors no doubt had a cumulative effect on him, Im not persuaded they were 
substantive enough to warrant £500. 
Mr B was worried about his account security and concerned by the carelessness 
demonstrated by some RBS employees. But while there may have been a risk that things 
could have turned out differently if someone had intercepted his debit card or letters, his 
account wasnt actually compromised, and the receipt of the card was beneficial to him.
When someone makes a complaint, some level of inconvenience and frustration is to be 
expected. Mr B felt strongly about the problems he experienced but this doesnt mean RBS 
should compensate him for the efforts he made to express his ongoing concerns. Neither do 
I find it reasonable to award him compensation because RBS didnt provide him with a 
correspondence address. I dont find he was prevented from raising his concerns even 
though he wasnt satisfied by RBS investigation and responses. RBS did not need to keep Mr B as a customer. Its not unusual for banks to close accounts 
when account holders are no longer permanently resident in the UK. Neither is it unusual for 
banks to close accounts which arent particularly active. So, although I appreciate moving 
accounts caused Mr B some difficulty because he no longer lives in the UK, I am not holding 
RBS liable for the frustration or upset he was caused.
My final decision
I have decided not to direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay further compensation to 
Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman