DRN-2571752
The complaint
Ms Ns complaint is about the service she received when she made a claim under her home
emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2021, part of which is copied below: 
Ms N made a claim in February 2019, as her downstairs toilet wouldnt flush. British Gas
sent out one of its contractors who fitted a new part to the cistern. Ms N says that as the
toilet was boxed in the engineer had to take out the toilet to carry out the repair. Ms N says
he struggled to do this and it took a couple of hours for the job to be completed.
In April 2019, Ms N contacted British Gas again as there were foul smells coming from the
toilet. She was concerned the contractor had not fitted the toilet back properly. She also said
British Gass contractor had damaged tiles around the toilet.
British Gas sent a contractor back out. He inspected the toilet and said there were no leaks
or other problems. Initially British Gas said the drain must be blocked further down.
However, later it said the foul waste pipe is buried under ground and the toilet is not
connected to it, so the soil waste is going into the ground. British Gas says this was caused
by poor installation.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She initially upheld the complaint, as she
thought it unlikely the problem had been ongoing since installation ten years earlier. The
investigator recommended that British Gas carry out a lasting repair to the toilet to rectify the
issue and pay Ms N £250 compensation for the inconvenience and the poor service.
In the meantime, Ms N arranged for an independent plumber to investigate the problem and
he apparently told her the waste pipe connector was damaged and this was not due to how it
was installed. He repaired the damaged pipe, resolved the problem with the toilet and
replaced the tiles. The repairs cost £1,500.
Ms N thinks British Gass contractor damaged the connector, when he took out the toilet and
wants this cost reimbursed. Ms N has made a number of points in support of her complaint,
which Ive summarised below:
The toilet was installed around ten years earlier, when she moved into the property
and she has never had any issues with smells until British Gas attended in February
2019.
The engineer removed the toilet and then put it back, he did not raise any issue
about how the toilet was installed or identify that it was not properly connected.
British Gass contractor insisted he had to remove the tiles to get behind the
enclosed unit. She pleaded with him not to, as the tiles were no longer available to
replace any damaged by doing this but he insisted this was the only way.
Her contractor has told her this was not necessary and the British Gas contractor
could have just pulled the toilet out from its grid, without disrupting the tiled box. He
could then have seen and fixed the rear pan connection, which was a minor problem.
The same contractor came out three times (despite her asking British Gas to send a
different contractor) and insisted each time that the problem was not with the toilet
but a much more serious problem with the pipes behind the waste either behind the
tiled box or under the floor that she was not insured against.
The investigator reconsidered the matter and recommended that British Gas reimburse the
repair costs of £1,500, together with interest at our usual rate and pay £500 compensation
for the trouble caused by its handling of this matter.
British Gas does not agree that it is responsible for the repair costs. It says its contractor
didnt remove the toilet. It has provided photos taken during the repair which it says show
that he removed tiles to access the cistern and it says he was able to replace the flush
mechanism without removing the toilet. It relies on its contractors notes of each attendance
which says there was no leak from the toilet, there is just a smell coming from the ground as
the waste pipe was open and this was an installation issue.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a direct conflict of evidence about what happened at the first repair appointment.
British Gas says it repaired the flush mechanism and the contractor was not required to
remove the toilet to do so. British Gass job sheet records that the contractor was there for
an hour on 13 February 2019 and removed and repaired the flush valve. It has provided
photographs which show the contractor was apparently able to make access behind the
flush plate but also showing two tiles next to the toilet pan had been removed. They do not
appear split or damaged in the photographs provided.
Ms N says the contractor took over two hours to complete the repair, as he had to take out
the toilet as he could not access the flush mechanism and he had trouble doing this. And he
damaged tiles while doing so. She thinks he damaged the pan connector while taking the
toilet out. Ms N also says the British Gas damaged the tiles around the toilet. Again, there is
little independent evidence of this.
I accept the tiles must have been damaged at some point, as  the photographs Ms N
has provided show clearly that some have been replaced, and do not match the tiles on the
other walls in colour exactly. Ms Ns contractor has said the toilet could have been removed
without damaging the tiles. British Gas says it was not possible to repair the toilet without
accessing it which meant some tiles were removed. It also says that the policy does not
provide cover for repairing tiles damaged as a result, as it only covers the repair of the faulty
part and accessing it.
While I note what Ms Ns contractor has said, I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence
that British Gass contractors damaged the tiles unnecessarily or negligently. It seems to me
more likely than not that some tiles needed to be removed to be able to access behind the
toilet and also the connector pan when Ms Ns contractor was repairing that, given it was all
boxed in.
As there is not enough evidence that the tiles were damaged and needed refitting due to
something British Gas did wrong, I do not consider I can fairly ask it to pay for the retiling
costs, as this is also not something that would be covered under the policy.There is also a direct conflict of interest about what happened next and the cause of the bad
smells. Ms N says the smells only started after the repair in February 2019. Ms N reported
this and it was thought it might be because there was a blockage. British Gas came out and
rodded the pipes and came back out a few days later to check for leaks.
At the first appointment it didnt apparently identify any problem with the waste pipe and the
contractors reported that they had rodded the gully that cleared the blockage which was
causing the smell. However, at the last appointment said it was disconnected and had been
like this since installation.
British Gass contractor provided several notes to British Gas, including the following:
there is nowhere you can fit the waste pan connector, because the soil pipe (stack pipe)
cant be seen anywhere. It's buried deep in the ground, and no access, the toilet has been
incorrectly installed from the beginning and
there is no leak nothing whatsoever in this toilet ... its just a smell and this smell comes
from the ground. The soil waste pipe in the ground is open. Its a maintenance issue and
nothing to do with BG. The smell has been there since they moved in.
However, Ive not seen any detailed job sheet of the attendance April 2019 and the work and
investigations done.
Ms Ns contractor found the problem with the toilet, which was that the connection between
the toilet pan and the waste pipe was split. He has said:
following our investigation into your Ground floor WC cloakroom we found that the rear pan
connection had split. Hence the foul Smell coming from your main sewer pipe. How this pan
connector became damaged is up for debate but this was the problem and was not as you
had been advised a problem with poor installation or a problem with the main sewer pipe
under the floor. If a proper inspection had taken place simply by pulling the pan out from its
back to wall grid, this minor fault could have been rectified very easily without destroying
tiles. I confirm that I have replaced the rear pan connection and retiled the cloakroom for
£1500.
Given that two sets of contractors, both apparently qualified to deal with such matters have
provided such opposing opinions about the cause of the problem and the work required, it is
extremely difficult for me to be sure which is correct. I have to therefore consider all the other
evidence to determine which is most likely to be correct. 
British Gass contractors reported to it that the smells had been coming from the toilet ever 
since Ms N moved in 10 years earlier. However, there is no record of Ms N having told them 
this. And I note that the contractors have not commented in any of the job notes left with    
Ms N or provided to British Gas that there was a smell from the toilet prior to April 2019.
If the waste pipe had been unconnected and soil waste seeping into the ground for 10 years,
one might expect some smell to have been present during the earlier appointments.
I also find it difficult to accept that British Gas rodded the toilet waste pipe but didnt notice it
was disconnected. Overall therefore I think it is more likely than not that there was a crack in
the connecter pipe as Ms Ns contractor has stated.
Her contractor doesnt state this was caused by British Gas and other than Ms Ns belief that
this was caused by them when working on the toilet, there is no other evidence to support
this. However, a leak from the connector would have been covered under this policy and so Iconsider British Gas should reimburse the cost of this repair.
Ms N has provided an invoice for this work which says he repaired this (which he said was a
simple job) and re-tiled the boxed area for £1,500. However, I am not currently satisfied that
I can make British Gas pay this amount.
I have already determined that the part of this invoice that is for the re-tiling is not payable by 
British Gas. I also note the invoice says the cost is £1,500 inclusive of VAT but this is not set 
out in the way I have seen on most other VAT invoices. Also, I note that in an email of July 
2020, Ms N says no VAT was paid. The amount charged is also relatively high and so it 
would be reasonable to expect proof of payment and a proper VAT invoice.
I would therefore invite Ms N to provide further evidence in relation to this invoice, and
provide proof of payment of it before I can make British Gas pay towards it. As the invoice
provided includes the cost of tiling as well as repair of the toilet, Ms N will need to provide
evidence of the cost of the toilet repair only. If Ms N is unable to provide such evidence, then
I intend to ask British Gas to pay the equivalent of what it would have cost it to do the
repairs.
As I consider the toilet should have been repaired by British Gas when Ms N first reported
the bad smells and the failure to do so meant more appointments and she had to get her
own contractor to do the work, I agree that some further compensation is warranted. I
consider the sum of £175 to be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do
the following:
reimburse the costs of the repairs to the toilet only (not the retiling), upon production 
of proof of payment of those costs, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, 
from the date Ms N paid these costs to the date of reimbursement; and
pay £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. I also asked Ms N for some further evidence about the costs charged by 
her contractor.
British Gas has said it agrees that the repair of the connector pipe would have been covered 
by the policy and therefore also agrees that it should reimburse the cost of this repair. British 
Gas says the repairs to the toilet would have cost it £227.52 (consisting of three hours labour 
at £43.20 per hour and £60 for the closed couple cistern and VAT).
Ms N has not provided any further information or evidence about the costs charged to her by 
her contractor.  She does not accept my provisional decision and has made the following 
points in response: 
British Gas says it didnt remove the toilet but it is clear it did, as the contractors 
reports say he did. 
She does not accept that the tiling costs should not be covered. Do I expect her not 
to re-tile around the toilet? Would I want that in my house?She ended up with two different tile colours, in order to keep the cost down and acted 
reasonably, so it should be covered.
I am more concerned about British Gas than the fact she has had to put up with 
terrible customer service and workmanship.
British Gas should never be allowed to put people through what it put her through.
Ms N has provided a copy of a bank statement showing that on 28 May 2020 she transferred 
£1,500, which she says was the payment to her contractor for the work done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, I accept the tiles were damaged and had to be 
replaced. However, as the policy does not provide cover for repairing tiles damaged as a 
result of a claim, I can only require British Gas to pay the cost of replacing them, if they were 
damaged as a result of some wrongdoing by British Gas. 
The dispute therefore is about whether the repairs to the toilet could have been done, 
without damaging the tiles. Ms Ns contractor has said the toilet could have been removed 
without damaging the tiles, whereas British Gas says it was not possible to repair the toilet 
without accessing it, which meant some tiles were removed. It also said it didnt remove the 
toilet but whether it did or not, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome. I noted what 
Ms Ns contractor has said in my provisional decision, but overall I did not think there was 
enough evidence that British Gass contractors damaged the tiles unnecessarily or 
negligently. I remain of this opinion because it still seems to me more likely than not, some 
tiles needed to be removed to be able to access behind the toilet and carry out all the repairs 
necessary, given it was all boxed in.  I therefore remain of the opinion that British Gas is not 
responsible for the cost of re-tiling. 
I did provisionally decide that British Gas should have covered the cost of the repair of the 
toilet connector and I am pleased to note British Gas agrees with this. I set out in my 
provisional decision that I required Ms N to provide evidence of the cost of this repair and 
her payment of that cost, and the reasons why I was asking for that.  
Ms N provided a copy of a bank statement which she says proves she paid her contractor 
£1,500 for the repairs, in line with his invoice. The bank statement shows Ms N transferred 
£1,500 on 28 May 2020 to a different account. However, the reference of the account that 
the transfer was going to is Ms Ns first name. This therefore only proves that Ms N made a 
transfer of £1,500 to another account in her name and not any payment to a third party. In 
addition, the invoice was dated 9 June 2020 and the transfer pre-dates this. However, even 
if I were satisfied this proved Ms N had paid her contractor £1,500, as stated in my 
provisional decision, this amount includes the cost of tiling, for which I dont think British Gas 
is responsible.  
I also asked for further information about the amount Ms N was charged because the invoice 
says the total cost was £1,500 including VAT, but it is not set out in the way it should be, to 
be a valid VAT invoice. And, as mentioned in my provisional decision, in an email of July 
2020, Ms N says no VAT was paid. 
I said in my provisional decision that if Ms N is unable to provide the evidence I asked for, I 
intended to ask British Gas to pay the equivalent of what it would have cost it to do the 
repairs. As Ms N has not provided that further evidence, I think it is reasonable for British 
Gas to pay what it would have cost it to complete this repair. It has said this would have been £227.52. As I do not know exactly when Ms N paid for this work, I think it would be fair 
for the interest to be added from 1 June 2020, which is approximately when the work was 
done. 
Neither party has made any further comment on the compensation I proposed, so I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision that the sum of £175 compensation is also 
appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do
the following:
pay Ms N £227.52 for the repairs to the toilet, together with interest at 8% simple per 
annum, from 1 June 2020 to the date of reimbursement; and
pay £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman