DRN-3842910
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy at the amount of charges and fees applied to her account by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when she went into unarranged overdraft.
What happened
Miss E complained to Barclays about the charges applied to her account when she went into 
unarranged overdraft. Barclays said all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Es concerns and reached the conclusion Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss E unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Miss E disagreed, she would like a refund of the charges applied to her account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Miss E raised her complaint in September 2022 in relation to her overdraft dating back 11 
years. Six years before she raised her complaint is September 2016. And as Miss E 
wouldve been notified of the charges applied to her account when they were applied, I think 
Miss E ought to have known enough to decide whether the charges Barclays applied were 
unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when she ought to 
be reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides Miss E with a longer period than 
the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at Miss Es overdraft usage and charges applied 
from September 2016.
I can still look into Miss Es complaint about her overdraft outside this time if Im satisfied the 
failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Miss E has told us that 
losing close family members in 2017 and her health suffering were the reason she delayed 
raising a complaint. 
In coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Miss E and Barclays and what I have to 
decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Miss E wouldve prevented her from 
referring her complaint earlier had she chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything she has told us about her circumstances during
the relevant period. I sympathise with Miss E for the losses and hardship she has suffered. 
But these events occurred in 2017 and Miss E held an account with Barclays since 2011. 
And I also note that Miss E was able to arrange to move her account to another provider in 
2019.  
I understand why referring the complaint may not have been a priority for Miss E. But I think 
she still could have referred her complaint about the charges or have contacted Barclays 
about her situation before she did especially as it only takes an email or telephone call to do 
so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at the 
charges applied to Miss Es account before September 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Miss E has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclays various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss E if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Es account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss E was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Miss E fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Miss E unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Miss Es statements for the period in question 
(2016-2019 when she moved her account to another bank), I can see little to suggest that 
Barclays ought to have realised Miss E might have been experiencing financial difficulties 
prior to it being notified of this. 
Miss Es statements show that Miss E was in credit with mostly a healthy balance and the 
account only became overdrawn on a handful of occasions from late 2018 to 2019. When 
the account was overdrawn it was only by a few pounds and only for a day. Her account 
became overdrawn as a result of having insufficient funds to pay direct debits. The direct 
debits were returned which brought her account back into credit and Barclays charged a fee 
for this as per the terms and conditions of the account.  
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Miss E wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Barclays to any potential financial difficulty before Miss E raised it. 
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Miss Es account 
was being used. And I dont think that Barclays treated Miss E unfairly or unreasonably and 
this means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman