DRN-2912707
The complaint
Company P (P) complains that Arthur J Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (AJG) didnt 
make it aware that its insurer could proportionately reduce the amount paid for any claims if 
it was underinsured.
What happened
P holds a Freight Liability policy with Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) that it renewed through 
AJG in September 2019. This included freight cover for Apple goods, which was subject to a 
sub-limit of £500,000. It made a claim following the theft of Apple products it was 
transporting on 12 November 2019. The value being claimed for the stolen good was 
£133,756.32, but the goods were actually worth in excess of £1.3million based on their 
resale value, meaning that P was underinsured for the cargo it was transporting, as the 
value of the goods far exceeded the sub-limit of £500,000. As a result, the insurer said it 
would only pay a proportion of the loss as per the clause (commonly referred to as an 
average clause) set out in the policy terms and conditions:
Full responsibility
This condition applies only to cargo for which full responsibility cover is provided.
Where the total value of such cargo in or on any on vehicle at the time of any loss or 
damage exceeds the sub-limit applicable to that vehicle we will not pay more than the 
proportion of the claim that the sub-limit any one vehicle bears to the total value of 
cargo in or on the vehicle.
In any case we will not pay more than:
A) the value of the lost or damaged cargo or
B) the cost of repairing or re-instating the lost or damaged cargo or
C) the value of any part of the cargo which is actually lost or damaged 
regardless of whether it affects the value of other parts of the cargo whichever 
is the least (less the applicable excess and any applicable co-insurance) in 
respect of your liability for physical loss or damage to cargo.
The value of the cargo lost or damaged means the invoice value of the lost or 
damaged cargo if it has been sold.
P complained that AJG didnt make it aware of this clause when it was taking out the policy. 
It says a fact-finding exercise was carried out during a meeting with the broker in September 
2019, where it discussed its contractual arrangements it had in place to transport the high 
value goods that had been stolen. It says that AJG failed to advise it correctly with regards to 
the policy limit and the average clause, which meant that RSA had only paid out around 
£60,000 of the claim. It said the broker should therefore pay the remaining £73,000 that 
hasnt been covered under the policy as a result of its under insurance. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that P ought to have known 
about the average clause given that its policy had been in place without change for several 
years prior to it being renewed through AJG. P disagreed, so the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
First, I want to make it clear that I will not be considering RSAs decision to proportionately 
reduce the claim within this final decision, and neither will I be considering whether the 
settlement it has offered is fair, as points such as these would need to be directed to the 
insurer. Given that P has directed its complaint against AJG as the broker that sold the 
policy, I have considered their handling of the policys renewal in 2019. 
AJG were appointed as Ps broker on 30 August 2019. A meeting was held between the two 
parties on 6 September 2019 to discuss Ps insurance, and renewal terms were 
subsequently issued by the insurer on 27 September 2019. However, P had held this policy 
with RSA since 2015, where it had previously taken it out and renewed terms through a 
separate broker (Tysers). It said that it appointed AJG in 2019 as it was unhappy with the 
renewal premiums offered by Tysers and because it could get a better price for the same 
RSA policy through AJG. 
I understand that the average clause relied upon by the insurer to proportionately reduce Ps 
indemnity has been a feature of the policy since It was originally taken out through Tysers in 
2015, and that it hasnt changed since then. AJG has said that it didnt provide the policy 
terms and conditions upon renewal in September 2019 as the same terms were to remain in 
place, which they assumed would have been previously issued by Tysers. Theyve also said 
they were told by P that the cover it had in place in relation to its freight liability policy was 
correct. 
There is little evidence available to show what exactly was discussed between AJG and P at 
the meeting in September 2019. But in separate correspondence to AJG, I can see that P 
has said hence the reason for appearing happy with the cover on the basis that if freight 
were to be stolen from a vehicle, we would have up to £500K worth of cover for that vehicle. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that P was unsure of the cover it had in place, or that 
it was uncertain as to whether it was adequate, And given it had been in place since 2015, I 
think its most likely that P did confirm that the cover was correct and met its needs, and that 
they were happy to renew it through AJG.
P hasnt disputed that its freight liability policy terms with RSA have remained the same 
since 2015. It also hasnt said that it has never received a copy of the RSA terms and 
conditions since 2015. The insurer has also confirmed that policy documentation was issued 
and also sent upon renewal in 2016 and 2017 at least. So I consider it unlikely that P would 
not have received a single copy of its terms and conditions with RSA since they started 
providing cover in 2015. And as a commercial customer, P ought to have familiarised itself 
with the policy terms to which its business was subject. Therefore, Im satisfied that P ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the terms is was renewing on with AJG  including the 
average clause, due to this being a term present within the policy since 2015.Ive considered Ps argument regarding AJGs obligation to highlight any significant terms. 
But Ive also got to consider this in context of the fact that P hadnt approach AJG for a 
brand-new policy with unfamiliar terms. It essentially changed broker in order to obtain a 
better price for the same policy it had been renewing with RSA since 2015 (albeit with an 
uplift in the sub-limit in between).  So, in these circumstances, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for AJG to assume that P wouldve been familiar with any significant terms and 
conditions within the policy, such that they did not need to go over everything again. And 
given that there had been no change to the average clause, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to hold AJG liable for failing to bring it back to Ps attention upon renewal in 2019. If P is 
claiming that it had never been made aware of the average clause from the outset, then this 
is something it may wish to direct to the broker that originally sold the policy. 
With regards to the sum insured, P submits that AJG failed to advise it of the inadequacy of 
its cover for the Apple contract. But P has said that the topic of the Apple contract was 
discussed, and that it confirmed that [it] had £500K worth of cover, any one vehicle, any one 
incident. This was the same indemnity limit that P had set in 2018 through its previous 
broker. Before appointing AJG, I can see that P had also previously requested to increase its 
indemnity to £2.5million, which was refused by RSA. 
So, it seems most likely that P wouldve known that £500,000 did not adequately cover the 
total value of the goods it was transporting, yet it still confirmed that it was happy with a sub-
limit of this amount, which may have even amounted to a breach of its duty of fair 
presentation of the risk it was insuring. However, considering AJGs obligations in this 
instance, theres no evidence to suggest that P told the broker at any point that the goods it 
was transporting were worth significantly more than £500,000. Therefore, Im not persuaded 
there was any onus on the broker to point out that the cover would not have been adequate. 
I understand there has also been some debate between the parties as to whether the 
average clause constitutes a significant term. But I dont consider it necessary to explore this 
point any further, as Im persuaded that P ought reasonably to have been aware of it already 
for the reasons Ive previously explained, and I dont think it was necessary for AJG to 
highlight it again in these circumstances. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that AJG have done anything wrong here, and it follows that I 
will not be asking the broker to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman