DRN-1495686
The complaint
Mr W complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited wrongly registered a default 
against his name. He believed he had cleared any debt owed in or around 2009. Home 
Retail Group operates the Argos card. 
What happened
Argos says that Mr W had a credit card for several years, and payments were made by 
monthly direct debit. However, the direct debit instruction was cancelled in August 2017, 
when there was just over £60 left owing on the account. Argos registered a default in 
October 2018. 
Mr W didnt believe however that he owed anything, having cleared his balance in 2009. He 
said too that he didnt receive any statements from Argos. Hed changed his address in 2013 
and told Argos that hed done so, but it appeared that it didnt update its own records as it 
should have done. 
Argos couldnt trace having received any notification from Mr W that hed updated his 
address. It said too that the debt dated back to 2011, not 2009. The direct debit instruction 
that had ensured that payments were made until August 2017 had cancelled by Mr Ws 
bank, not by Argos. It didnt consider it had acted incorrectly. 
Mr W referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. Whilst 
she didnt think Argos had been wrong to register a default, she thought it should have done 
so earlier. Argos agreed to backdate the default to November 2017. 
Mr W didnt think this went far enough and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
He was adamant that he had told Argos about his change of address and pointed out that 
the default meant he couldnt have access to the best mortgage deals.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that Mr W is mistaken in his recollection of what happened in this case. I dont 
mean that as a criticism of him; the relevant events took place several years ago. And he 
may be right in saying he cleared the balance on his card in or around 2009. However, even 
if thats so, Argoss records indicate that he took out a buy now, pay later deal in May 2011. 
His card statements from that time show a balance on his account for which no payment was 
made or required until November of that year. It appears that the outstanding balance which 
has led to this complaint had its origins in that deal.
I accept as well that there was no particular reason for Mr W to have recalled the debt. It was 
for a relatively small sum and was being paid by direct debit, a situation which continued for 
several years. For some time, he hadnt received statements  because Argos hadnt 
updated his details  and he didnt receive correspondence when payments stopped. 
Mr W says he told Argos when he moved house, but Argoss records dont reflect that. I think 
it unlikely that Mr W did update his records, however. Had he done so, I think he might have 
noticed fairly soon after that he was no longer receiving statements from Argos. In addition, if 
he thought he had cleared the balance on his account in 2009, he would have had no reason 
to tell Argos about a change of address four years later.   
But, even if I were to take a different view, it wouldnt make any difference to my overall 
finding about the default. Its generally for a debtor to take responsibility for paying money 
thats due, whether or not the creditor seeks payment. Mr Ws obligation to pay didnt 
depend on the receipt of statements. 
As Ive indicated, payments were made until August 2017, when the direct debit instruction 
was cancelled. Im satisfied however that it was Mr Ws bank, rather than Argos, that 
cancelled the instruction. Its possible that was initiated by Mr Ws bank, rather than by Mr 
W, but I cant properly find Argos at fault.    
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the debt was one that Mr W incurred; his obligation to 
make payments didnt depend on the receipt of statements; and it wasnt the fault of Argos 
that the direct debit instruction was cancelled. 
I note however that Argos agreed to backdate the default, and I believe thats a fair 
resolution of Mr Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman