DRN-4251005
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc should not have 
closed its bank account.
The directors of B also control other companies, and they have made separate complaints 
on behalf of those other companies. This final decision relates solely to Bs dispute with 
Barclays; I have issued separate final decisions in relation to the other companies.
What happened
Barclays told us that it sent three separate Notice to Close (NTC) letters to B, each giving B 
60 days notice that it intended to close all of its accounts and banking facilities, and then a 
final NTC to say all Bs accounts would close at the end of May 2023. It explained:
It sent its first NTC on 3 August 2022, and said that it would terminate its relationship 
with B in early October 2022. However, it did not upload that letter to Bs Online 
Banking, and it later discovered that the person it had written to was not in the UK. In 
addition, at the time it was also carrying out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review 
and its KYC team told Bs directors that Bs accounts would remain open despite any 
letters suggesting otherwise.
In light of the confusion, it decided to rescind its first NTC. However, that was only to 
give B more time to arrange alternative banking facilities; it was not because it had 
changed its mind as to whether it wanted to offer accounts to B.
It reopened Bs accounts, then issued a second NTC letter explaining that it intended 
to close all of Bs accounts at the end of December 2022. But it did not in fact close 
the accounts when it said it would, and instead issued a third NTC letter in January 
2023. 
It closed Bs accounts again in March 2023. However, as a result of the previous 
errors and confusion, it agreed to reopen the accounts again to give B further time to 
arrange alternative banking facilities. It issued a final NTC on 29 March 2023, giving 
a new closure date of 30 May 2023, and then went on to close Bs accounts for a 
final time.
It is not prepared to offer any further extensions, and it in particular it is not prepared 
to offer temporary banking facilities while B searches for another provider.
Barclays acknowledged that some of its correspondence was confusing, but it said its 
decision to close the account was carefully considered. It said it complies with all its legal 
and regulatory obligations, and that a decision to close an account is never taken lightly. It 
has thoroughly reviewed the circumstances and is satisfied that its decision to close Bs 
account was correct. B does not meet its requirements to hold a business relationship.
Bs directors told us:
They control two companies in addition to B. At the beginning of 2022 all three of 
those companies banked with Barclays.  
Barclays carried out a review of B from May 2022 onwards. The directors provided all 
the information Barclays asked for. The review took four months so presumably was 
extensive  yet Barclays still decided to close all three companies bank accounts. 
They consider Barclays has botched this matter, then attempted to cover up its error 
by restoring the accounts and then issuing another NTC. Barclays attempts to hide 
behind its terms and conditions are a farce in this case.
They believe Barclays may have chosen to close the accounts of all three companies 
because of misinformation, but without knowing the precise reason for Barclays 
decisions they cannot properly challenge them.
They also suspect Barclays may be closing accounts that are not producing enough 
income for the bank. They have been attempting to get to the threshold for Barclays 
Corporate Banking, at which point they would be able to apply to Barclays Corporate 
for trade finance and the bank would then be able to make additional money from 
working with B. They note that Barclays has not cancelled a business credit card in 
the name of one of the directors, and they assume that is because Barclays is happy 
with the money it is making on that card.
If B cannot obtain banking facilities, it will have to close. It is not possible to operate a 
business like B without a bank account.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He said the terms and 
conditions of Bs account allowed Barclays to close the account in the way that it did, and 
that Barclays isnt required to give a reason for its decision. He acknowledged that some of 
the information Barclays provided was contradictory, but overall he thought Barclays had 
given B clear notice of its intention to close its accounts  and that B had benefitted from the 
extensions given.
Barclays accepted our investigators conclusions, but Bs directors did not. They said the 
extensions hadnt provided any benefit at all; merely more confusion. They would like me to 
order Barclays to continue providing banking services until they are able to open accounts 
elsewhere. They have not been able to trade with the threat of an account closure hanging 
over them, so they would also like compensation for loss of earnings as well as 
consequential damages for mental anguish and the loss of credibility with their regular 
suppliers and buyers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Bs directors, but there is very little I can add to what our 
investigator has already said.  
Barclays is entitled to choose who it would like to offer accounts to, just as customers are 
entitled to choose who they would like to bank with. But when it closes an account, it must 
do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions of that account. So Ive looked 
at the steps Barclays took to see if it acted fairly.Its clear that Barclays made some errors here. It sent conflicting information, and caused 
delays and confusion. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that Barclays did give Bs directors 60 
days notice that it intended to close all of Bs accounts. Im satisfied that Barclays complied 
with its contractual obligations, and that it was entitled to close Bs accounts. In addition, 
having looked at Barclays rationale Im satisfied that it was not based on misinformation, 
and that Barclays decision to close Bs accounts was not an attempt to cover up its own 
errors.
I appreciate that the directors say the extensions did not in fact help them  because they 
couldnt trade when they knew the accounts were due close again shortly  but I am not 
persuaded that B would now be in a better position if Barclays had closed its accounts after 
issuing the first NTC and then left the accounts closed. In other words, I dont think the delay 
in finally closing Bs accounts caused it to suffer financial loss, and so I dont think it would 
be fair for me to make an award in that respect. 
I know the directors would like Barclays to explain exactly why it has decided to terminate its 
relationship with B. Barclays has said that B does not meet its requirements to hold a 
business relationship, but Barclays is not obliged to tell B what those requirements are or 
why B does not meet them. 
Finally, I accept that Barclays decision has made it very difficult, and perhaps impossible, for 
B to continue trading. Im sorry to hear about the problems the directors have had trying to 
open new bank accounts for B elsewhere. But I dont think Barclays was wrong to close the 
accounts, so I cant order it to pay compensation or to continue offering banking facilities to 
B. Overall, I consider that Barclays treated B fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman