DRN-2565980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They say it has 
overcharged them interest since 2008 by not making them aware they could take a new 
interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have an interest only mortgage with Santander. In 2008, their mortgage 
reverted to Santanders standard variable rate (SVR). In 2018, Mr and Mrs B contacted 
Santander to discuss their interest rate and took a new, lower fixed rate. They complained 
that Santander hadnt told them before then that they could take a new rate and reduce their 
payments.
Mr and Mrs B say that they have been paying too much interest to their mortgage, which has 
caused them financial difficulty. Had their interest rate been lower, they could even have 
made overpayments to reduce the balance. Mr and Mrs B want a lower rate backdated to 
their mortgage and the balance reduced.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs B have asked for 
it to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although part of this complaint dates back to 2008, Santander has decided not to object to 
us considering it on the basis that it might be out of time. So I will be considering the whole 
of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B first took their mortgage out in 2002. At that point it was on repayment terms. 
In 2007, Mr and Mrs B began to experience financial difficulty and the mortgage was 
converted to interest only to reduce their monthly payments.
In 2008, Mr and Mrs Bs discounted interest rate ended, and they moved onto Santanders 
SVR. Later in 2008 Mr and Mrs B asked for a new rate, but Santander refused one because 
of the arrears.
In November 2008, Santander capitalised the mortgage arrears  meaning it added the 
arrears to the mortgage balance so that it was no longer in arrears. But the next month 
Mr and Mrs B began to fall back into arrears. Their mortgage remained in arrears until a 
further capitalisation in 2011. 
But within a few months, arrears began to build up again, and it was only in 2017 that 
Mr and Mrs B finally cleared the arrears. The mortgage payments have been made in full 
since January 2017. Just over a year later, in 2018, Mr and Mrs B asked for a new rate and 
Santander agreed a new fixed rate.
At the time Mr and Mrs B reverted to the SVR in 2008, there was no obligation on Santander 
to pro-actively contact its customers and invite them to apply for a new rate. 
More recently, Santander  in common with other lenders  has entered a voluntary 
agreement to contact customers on SVR who could benefit from a new rate, and this is now 
in my view good industry practice. But this agreement only came about in 2018, after 
Mr and Mrs B took their new rate. So its not relevant to this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs B reverted to the SVR, Santander wrote to them to tell them their 
payments were changing. That letter said they could get in touch to discuss a new rate, and I 
can see Mr and Mrs B did that  the problem was that they were in arrears, and therefore not 
eligible for a rate. This was the case for most of the next nine years, until 2017.
Santanders policy is that a customer in arrears isnt eligible for a rate. Theres no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs B asked for one between 2008 and 2018  but for much of that period, even 
if they had asked they wouldnt have been eligible for a new rate. 
In this case, I dont think that would have been unfair. Mr and Mrs B were in financial 
difficulty. Mrs B says that was because of Mr Bs variable self-employment income. They 
were in arrears for much of the ten years between 2007 and 2017. It seems Santander did 
make efforts to help  it switched the mortgage to interest only to reduce the payments; it 
capitalised the arrears twice; it agreed payment arrangements. But it took ten years for Mr 
and Mrs B to reach a position where they could maintain the payments.
With a new interest rate, their payments would have been lower. But given the payment 
history, a new rate wouldnt have been enough to keep them out of arrears altogether, and 
wouldnt have solved their wider financial difficulties.
And there are downsides to a new rate too  principally an early repayment charge (ERC), 
which is generally a percentage of the mortgage balance. With long term arrears like in this 
case, its quite possible that there will come a time when the mortgage is no longer 
sustainable and the property ends up being sold or repossessed. Fortunately that didnt 
happen in this case, but that couldnt have been known at the time. And while with hindsight 
we know the risk of that happening didnt come to pass, it was still a significant risk while 
Mr and Mrs B were in arrears.
So even if Mr and Mrs B had asked for a rate between 2008 and 2017, I dont think 
Santander would have agreed one, because of the arrears. And because a new rate 
wouldnt have made the mortgage affordable, and would have risked an ERC, I dont think it 
would have been unfair for Santander to refuse a rate if asked.
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs B would rather have been paying a lower amount all these 
years. But I dont think they would have been able to make any inroads to their interest only 
balance  even with lower payments, it seems to me, they would have struggled to keep up 
with the mortgage. 
Once they were clear of arrears, Mr and Mrs B were able to take a new fixed rate, and they 
did so in 2018. They could have asked for one in 2017  but, as Ive explained, there was no 
obligation on Santander at the time to invite them to do so. And Mr and Mrs B had asked 
before, so knew how to do so  and were reminded by their annual statements that it was a 
possibility. I dont therefore think that I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B are, rightly, concerned about their situation now that there is only a few years 
left on the term of their interest only mortgage. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
they would have been able to do much about that in the years they were on the SVR. But hopefully they are in a better position now. They should get in touch with Santander and see 
what options may be open to them  and they might also want to get some independent 
financial advice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman