DRN-1396229
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service hes received from British Gas Insurance Limited on his 
multi-premises home emergency policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr P called British Gas because of faults with a smoke alarm. The engineer 
said the works werent covered because the alarms werent wired in. He was told hed need 
to pay a fee to reconnect the alarm.
Mr P said he didnt know the alarms werent wired in. He said British Gas engineer told him 
the fire brigade had likely disconnected the alarm because he had a battery-powered alarm 
too. But Mr P said the fire brigade disputed giving this advice. So he got back in touch with 
British Gas.
British Gas notes showed that April 2011, one of its engineers had visited Mr Ps property to 
investigate a faulty smoke alarm. The notes stated the engineer had disconnected a faulty 
fire alarm circuit and that the fire brigade had fitted their own alarms. British Gas said Mr P 
wouldve been given a job sheet by the engineer, which explained what work had been 
done. Mr P said he hadnt been told the alarms were being disconnected. 
Mr P wasnt happy with British Gas explanation and he made a complaint. British Gas said 
the engineer no longer worked for it, so it couldnt ask them to explain why theyd 
disconnected the alarms. But it agreed to install a new alarm system for Mr P free of charge. 
As the engineer fitting the system attended the wrong address initially, it also offered Mr P 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr P was still unhappy with the service hed got from British Gas. He said his family had 
been at risk since 2011 because his alarm system had been disconnected. He told us hed 
needed to buy new alarms during the two-week period between him finding out about the 
disconnection and the new system being fitted. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He didnt think British Gas 
engineer had let Mr P know hed disconnected the alarm. Thats because Mr Ps policy had 
covered repairs to wired-in smoke alarms. He thought Mr P wouldve chosen to get his 
system repaired rather than leave himself and his family less protected than hed have liked 
to have been. He noted Mr P had spent money buying extra alarms after he learned his 
system had been disconnected. And he felt Mr P wouldve suffered additional trouble and 
upset during the two-week period between finding out about the disconnection and the fitting 
of the new system. So he recommended British Gas pay Mr P £200 compensation.
British Gas didnt respond to the investigators recommendations, despite repeated chases. 
It didnt respond to the letter letting it know Mr Ps  complaint would be passed to an 
ombudsman. So the complaints now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided British Gas 
should pay Mr P £200 for his distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that British Gas engineer disconnected the alarm system back in April 
2011. The job notes are clear. British Gas says Mr P wouldve been told the system was 
being disconnected and this wouldve been set out on the job sheet the engineer left after 
their visit. Mr P said he wasnt told the system had been disconnected.
Unfortunately, theres no job sheet available to show what the engineer told Mr P. And the 
engineers now left British Gas, so theres no possibility of asking them for any recollections 
about what happened. So I need to decide whats most likely to have happened, given the 
available evidence.
Firstly, Ive thought about what Mr Ps policy covered. Ive considered the policy wording 
from the time of the 2011 claim. It covered repairs to a smoke alarm which was wired-in. The 
engineer had been called out to check a faulty smoke alarm system. Given Mr P had been 
concerned enough to make a claim for the system,  it seems unlikely hed have chosen not 
to get it repaired on the policy and wouldve chosen to simply disconnect it. Especially 
because the battery operated alarm he says the fire brigade had installed as additional 
protection wouldnt have been covered by the policy. 
And as Mr P has said he put in a battery-powered alarm as extra protection, it doesnt seem 
likely hed have wanted to rely on this as the only source of fire protection. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps actions once he found out his alarm system had been 
disconnected. He immediately tried to find out why thisd happened and was worried enough 
to want a new system fitted. Hes also told us he bought new alarms to protect his home 
during the period he knew he was without a fitted system. This suggests fire safety is very 
important to Mr P. So it seems to me if Mr P had known back in 2011 that he no longer had a 
fitted alarm system, hed have likely got the alarms fixed and wired back in.
Having considered these points, I think its most likely Mr P wasnt told his system had been 
disconnected by the engineer. And I think this has caused Mr P some distress and 
inconvenience.
Ive then considered what I think British Gas should do to put things right. I accept it fitted a 
new alarm system at some cost to itself. But I dont think this is enough to recognise the 
trouble and upset it caused Mr P. It seems to me that this is only what shouldve happened 
back in 2011. And for a two-week period, he knew his family and home were less protected 
from fire than he wanted them to be. He had to make calls to British Gas to find out whatd 
happened and then to chase up getting repairs done. And he incurred extra expenses in 
buying new alarms to protect his property while waiting for British Gas to install a new 
system. 
Like the investigator, having considered these points, I agree an award of £200 for Mr Ps 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So this is what Im 
telling British Gas to pay him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £200 for his distress and inconvenience.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman