DRN-4170863
The complaint
Mr H complains about how his insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), 
handled a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
On 26 November 2022 Mr Hs vehicle suffered damage to its glass, which needed 
replacement. He contacted Admiral to tell them about the damage and arrange for the glass 
to be replaced. An appointment was arranged for 6 December. When the appointment was 
made, he said he was told it was likely to be earlier as priority would be given to cars that 
werent roadworthy. He phoned Admiral about an earlier appointment but was told it wasnt 
possible. He received email confirmations for the appointment, but no-one attended on the 
date to carry out the work.  
He contacted Admiral but was told they didnt have the appointment. He was then contacted 
by Admiral to say an appointment had been made for the following day but was then told the 
glass needed for his vehicle wasnt in stock (so he couldnt have a new appointment date).
Mr H contacted Admiral, unhappy at what had happened. Admiral said the glass for his 
vehicle was on order and theyd contact him to arrange its fitting once it was delivered. In 
acknowledgment of the distress, inconvenience and trouble caused to Mr H, Admiral 
awarded £50 in compensation. 
Mr H responded (on 9 December) to say hed accept the compensation if Admiral could 
arrange for temporary replacement glass to be fitted within two days. However, this didnt 
happen and when Mr H contacted Admiral he was told they couldnt arrange an appointment 
to fit permanent replacement glass until 28 December. Mr H then complained to Admiral.
Admiral upheld the complaint. In their final response, they acknowledged Mr Hs concerns 
and confirmed the booking (for temporary glass replacement) on 15 December. They 
accepted they told Mr H theyd contact him if an earlier appointment became available. 
However, this hadnt been possible (so hadnt contacted him). They also confirmed the 
appointment (for permanent glass replacement) for 28 December. As a stock and 
appointment business, bookings were subject to availability. So they confirmed their 
decision to offer £50 in compensation.
Mr H then complained to this service (20 December). He said Admiral had failed to carry out 
the work needed to repair his car on any of the dates they said they would. And he was still 
waiting for the glass to be replaced. Hed had to take time off work for appointments that 
werent kept, and hed had to use public transport while his car was off the road. He wanted 
the glass replaced sooner than the revised booking date and for the costs hed incurred to 
be reimbursed.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to do 
anything more. Based on the evidence available, they thought the delays in obtaining 
replacement glass were outside Admirals control (due to supply issues) so they couldnt be 
held responsible. They thought Admirals offer of £50 compensation was fair.
Mr H made further representations. He thought Admiral should have offered the option of 
temporary glass replacement earlier than they did, which could have avoided some of the 
missed appointments and the consequent inconvenience and additional costs hed incurred. 
He also didnt think Admirals offer of compensation was fair.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs response and further representations and issued a 
second view, in which he concluded that while some delays were outside of Admirals 
control, they could have been more proactive in supporting Mr H, for example in offering a 
temporary glass replacement sooner than it did. Taking these factors into account, the 
investigator thought £250 would be fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr H.
Admiral accepted the investigators view, but Mr H didnt, saying he thought £500 
compensation would be fair given the days hed had to take off. Admiral didnt agree to the 
figure, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is the time taken for Admiral to replace the glass in his 
vehicle, first with temporary replacement glass (when it became apparent Admiral couldnt fit 
permanent replacement glass as theyd initially planned to do). And then to fit permanent 
replacement glass. Mr H says he had to take time off work for appointments that werent 
kept by Admiral. And if permanent replacement glass wasnt available (due to shortages) 
then they should have offered the temporary replacement glass sooner than they did. 
Admiral accept there have been shortcomings in the service theyve provided to Mr H and 
offered compensation (£50 initially and then accepting our investigators view that a total of 
£250 would be fair). Mr H feels £500 would be fair.
In considering the complaint, Ive looked at the sequence of events as set out above. Its 
clear Mr H was inconvenienced on several occasions, first by having an appointment made 
which wasnt kept (6 December) and then having a second appointment the following day 
cancelled. He was then offered an appointment for temporary replacement glass (15 
December) but permanent replacement glass wasnt available until nearly two weeks after 
that (28 December). Which meant a month from the incident to having permanent 
replacement glass fitted.
Admiral say there were nationwide issues with the supply of replacement glass and that they 
operate on a stock and appointment basis and bookings are subject to availability. While I 
accept what they say, I think they should have made Mr H aware of these issues sooner, 
and if there were the supply issues they mention, why they didnt offer the temporary 
replacement glass option sooner than they did  when Mr H had had two appointments 
either missed or cancelled at short notice. 
Taking all these points into account, I think Mr H was inconvenienced to a greater degree 
than was necessary (I accept that having to have replacement glass fitted would always 
have meant some degree of inconvenience). And while some of the delays (the supply 
issues) were outside Admirals direct control, the missed and cancelled appointments were 
their responsibility. So, I think compensation for inconvenience is fair in this case.Thinking about what a fair and reasonable amount of compensation would be, Ive taken into 
account the missed and cancelled appointments, and that temporary replacement glass 
could have been offered sooner (which would have reduced the inconvenience of missed, 
cancelled (and rescheduled) appointments). Mr H says hes had to take time off work and 
lost income as a result. I can understand why he feels he should be compensated for this. 
But our approach as a service in these situations is to consider what is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience a business has caused to a consumer from its actions, 
where we dont think theyve acted fairly and reasonably. It isnt to directly award sums 
based on the specific individuals lost income.
Looking at the circumstances of the case, I think Mr H did experience inconvenience from 
what happened. Having regard to the circumstances and the guidelines we operate to as a 
service, then Ive concluded a total of £250 in compensation for inconvenience would be fair 
and reasonable (that is, £200 in addition to the £50 Admiral have paid Mr H  if theyve 
already paid the £50).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:  
Pay Mr H a total of £250 in compensation for inconvenience (that is, £200 in 
addition to the £50 Admiral have paid Mr H  if theyve already paid the £50).
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman