DRN-1638015
The complaint
Mr K complains Western Provident Association Limited unfairly declined his claim and 
applied a retrospective exclusion to his policy. 
What happened
Mr K holds a private medical insurance policy with WPA through his employers group 
scheme. The policy is fully medically underwritten and is designed to provide cover for new 
symptoms or conditions which occur. 
Mr K joined the scheme in 2013. And a few years prior to this in 2010, hed undergone 
reconstructive surgery to his left knee. 
When joining the scheme, WPA required Mr K to answer various questions about his 
medical history. WPA said Mr K failed to declare the previous surgery on his left knee, 
despite being asked the following questions. 
Have you ever had any orthopaedic surgery as a result of a bone or joint condition 
(for
example an arthroscopy)?
In the last 5 years have you had any medical or health related tests (including 
diagnostic
genetic tests or screening tests) e.g. online, with a pharmacist/private doctor/private 
organisation or NHS check, whether your GP knows or not?
WPA said if Mr K had declared his previous knee surgery when joining the scheme, it would 
have applied the following exclusion to his policy from the outset. 
Mr K is not eligible for any investigations or treatment that is for, resulting from, or 
related to the following:
Knee conditions (Left), Osteoarthritis of knee (Left)
A related condition is where a current UK body of reasonable medical opinion 
considers another symptom/disease, illness or injury to be associated with the 
excluded condition.
WPA said it didnt become aware of the knee surgery Mr K had in 2010, until April 2019 
when he got in touch about receiving treatment for pain he was experiencing in both knees. 
And it applied the above exclusion to Mr Ks policy retrospectively. Because of this, it 
declined to provide cover for the treatment Mr K needed relating to his left knee. However it 
authorised treatment in relation to Mr Ks right knee. 
Mr K provided WPA with information from his consultant which showed the recent injury to 
his left knee was unconnected to the injury hed sustained in the past which had needed 
surgery. However WPA said whilst the injuries may not be connected, the latest injury was 
caught by the exclusion it had retrospectively applied to the policy. So it didnt change its 
decision to decline cover. 
Mr K complained to WPA. WPA said it had reviewed further medical information Mr K had 
provided about his previous surgery and current condition. It said it had referred to its Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) who had reviewed the information and thought that the earlier injury, 
although repaired, made Mr K more liable to further injury in the same area. And it said it had 
not changed its position on Mr Ks claim and the exclusion it had applied retrospectively 
would remain. 
Unhappy with WPAs response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. He said it was 
unreasonable for WPA to add the exclusion to his policy. And said he had wasted time 
getting further information from his consultant which wasnt required.
An investigator here looked into what had happened. He said he thought Mr K was required 
to declare the 2010 knee surgery to WPA at the outset of the policy. And said he didnt think 
the exclusion WPA added to the policy was unreasonable. However, he said he thought 
WPA had been unclear when advising Mr K that it would review any further information in 
support of his claim. And because of this, he thought WPA should pay Mr K £150 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
WPA responded accepting the investigators decision. Mr K disagreed. He said he thought 
the exclusion was excessive and other insurers would apply the exclusion for two years 
rather than permanently. And he said he thought WPA might have filled in his answers to the 
medical questions on the application, and could have made an error. 
As Mr K disagreed, the case has now been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing this complaint Ive considered the relevant law. The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the responsibilities of the 
consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. 
When joining his employers group scheme with WPA, Mr K had a responsibility to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation under CIDRA. For WPA to take action, 
such as applying a retrospective exclusion, it needs to show Mr K didnt take reasonable 
care, which resulted in a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding whether a consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. And one of these considerations is the question the consumer was 
asked.
Mr K was asked the following question. 
Have you ever had any orthopaedic surgery as a result of a bone or joint condition 
(for
example an arthroscopy)?Mr K answered no. However Im satisfied that the knee surgery Mr K underwent in 2010 
was a surgery relating to a bone or joint condition. And I think WPAs question was clear. So 
I think Mr K should have answered yes.
For WPA to take any action, there needs to be a qualifying misrepresentation. For this to 
happen, Mr K must have failed to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
Mr K has said he thinks he would have declared the knee surgery when he applied for the 
scheme, as the surgery was recent at that time. He said its possible WPA completed his 
answers on the application form and could have made an error.
Theres no call recording available for me to listen to from 2013. But Ive considered the 
declaration on the application form which was signed by Mr K. This states he had reviewed 
the information within the application and confirmed its accuracy. So Im satisfied Mr K had 
the opportunity to review the answers shown on the application form. And I think its most 
likely he would have told WPA if any of the answers hed given were incorrectly represented 
or missing.
WPA has provided a call Mr K made to it in April 2019, claiming for treatment due to pain in 
both knees. During this call, Mr K explained hed previously had surgery on his knee. WPA 
asked about Mr K having not declared this, and why hed answered the above question with 
no when he joined the group scheme. Mr K said hed answered in that way because he 
hadnt known what orthopaedic surgery meant. 
WPAs question asked about orthopaedic surgery due to a bone or joint condition. Mr K was 
aware hed had surgery to his knee which was carried out by an orthopaedic surgeon. If he 
was unsure if this would be classified as orthopaedic surgery, I think he should have asked 
WPA for clarification in order to take reasonable care to answer the question correctly. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr K answered WPAs question incorrectly, and failed to take 
reasonable care not to do so. 
WPA has to show that without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered the cover or 
would have done so on different terms. WPA has provided underwriting evidence which 
shows if Mr K had disclosed the previous surgery in 2010 when he joined the group scheme 
in 2013, it would have applied an exclusion to his policy relating to all treatment of his left 
knee. So Im persuaded there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
WPA hasnt said the misrepresentation was deliberate. If it was, CIDRA allows insurers to 
avoid the policy and refuse any claims. But in this case, WPA has treated the 
misrepresentation Mr K made to have been careless, and has allowed the policy to continue, 
but applied the exclusion retrospectively. And so I think WPA has acted fairly in this case. 
Mr K has said the exclusion is too broad, and other insurers may have applied the exclusion 
for a short time, rather than permanently. However, WPA is entitled to set an exclusion as it 
sees fit based on its assessment of risk. And if Mr K had disclosed his knee surgery when he 
joined the group scheme, WPA would have needed to inform him of the exclusion at the 
outset. If Mr K was unhappy with it, he could have chosen not to go ahead with his 
application for the group scheme policy, and could have taken alternative cover elsewhere. 
Ive also considered the information WPA provided to Mr K around obtaining further 
evidence to support his claim for treatment to his left knee. WPA told Mr K it would review 
any evidence he could provide that the injury was unrelated. However, I think it should have 
clarified that it meant evidence showing the injury to his left knee was unrelated to the 
exclusion on his policy. Mr K took WPA to mean he could provide evidence showing his recent knee injury wasnt 
related to the surgery he had on his knee in 2010. And understandably he was disappointed 
and frustrated that after gathering this evidence, WPA said it hadnt made a difference. 
I think WPA should have been clearer with Mr K about what sort of evidence might make 
a difference to its position. Had it done so, Mr K may not have been so disappointed by the 
outcome of the review, or, he may have chosen not to spend time gathering his evidence. 
Because of this, I think WPA should pay some compensation to Mr K. And I think £150 is 
a fair amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. And 
I direct Western Provident Association Limited to pay Mr K £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
WPA should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it Mr K has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it should add simple interest to the compensation at a rate 
of 8% per year, from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman