DRN-3118007
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint has been brought to us by a representative. Throughout my decision I 
will refer to Miss M when considering arguments made by both Miss M and her 
representative.
Miss M has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) unfairly 
cancelled her motor insurance policy. Miss M says UKI should have made more effort to 
communicate with her, and if it had she could have avoided her policy being cancelled.
What happened
Miss M took out a policy with UKI to start on 5 July 2021. A requirement of the policy was 
that Miss M had to download an app that tracked her driving and register an account.
Miss M was sent a welcome email on 12 June 2021. The email explained Miss M was 
required to download and register the DriveSure app within seven days, and that if Miss M 
didnt do this her policy would be cancelled.
As Miss M had not registered an account on the app within seven days of her policy start 
date UKI sent her a letter on 12 July 2021 explaining her policy would be cancelled on 26 
July 2021. The letter explained Miss M could prevent her policy from being cancelled by 
activating the DriveSure app and calling UKI.
As Miss M did not activate the app and call UKI her policy was cancelled.
Miss M explained she did not receive the letter and feels UKI should have done more to 
contact her before cancelling her policy. A simple call or email would have alerted her to the 
problem and the cancellation would have been prevented.
Miss M has also said that the welcome email sent on the 12 June 2021 stated the policy had 
started, and warned her about the importance of the app. The policy didnt start until 5 July 
2021 and if the email was sent closer to the start date, she would have activated it and again 
the cancellation of the policy would have been prevented.
Our Investigator considered what Miss M and UKI said and felt UKI had acted fairly so she 
didnt ask it to do anything more. Miss M disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the evidence provided by both Miss M and UKI. 
The welcome email sent to Miss M on 12 June 2021 was clear that Miss M was required to 
download and activate the DriveSure app as a condition of her policy and that the failure to 
do so would result in her policy being cancelled. I accept that this email also stated the policy 
had started and this was incorrect. But UKI was not required to send a second email on the 
day the policy started.
The email sent on 12 June 2021 could have been interpreted by Miss M as her having to 
download and activate the app within either seven days of the email or seven days of the 
policy start date. It is usual for a welcome document to be sent to a customer when a policy 
is taken out, not on the day the policy starts.
On 12 July 2021 UKI sent Miss M notice that her policy would be cancelled unless she 
activated the app and called UKI. Miss Ms policy, like most other motor insurance policies, 
allows UKI to cancel her policy giving seven days notice. It states:
We can cancel the policy at any time if we have a valid reason. If we have to do this, well 
give you at least 7 days notice. Well send our cancellation notice to the latest address we 
have for you.
UKI has explained that it sends cancellation notices in the post as not everyone always has 
access to email. I think this is reasonable and in any event is in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Although Miss M says she didnt receive the letter UKI has provided evidence 
that it did send the letter to the correct address. I am unable to hold UKI responsible for any 
issues with the postal system.
I accept UKI could have done more to communicate to Miss M that her policy would cancel, 
but it has acted within the terms and conditions of her policy and provided the amount of 
notice we would expect it to. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
As Miss Ms policy was cancelled fairly, and this is what has been recorded, I am unable to 
say UKI should amend this record.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman