DRN-2198163
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he acquired via hire purchase agreement with Oodle Financial 
Services Limited.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a used car. 
The car was just under six years old and had a mileage of 90,500. Mr K says that he paid 
the deposit the day before collecting the car and was expecting the dealership to clean the 
car. He then collected the car.
Mr K says he noticed some wet in the car when he picked it up but thought this was due 
to the car being washed. However, after a few days, he decided to take it to another 
garage for it to be inspected.
Mr K says that the engineer who examined the car gave him a list of issues that he found 
with the car which Mr K then passed to the dealership. The issues were as follows; front 
and rear drop links needed replacing; front antiroll bar bush needed replacing; the under 
tray was smashed and needed replacing; front brake pads 40% remaining; tyres needed 
replacing; the boot lock needed adjusting; the parcel shelf needed a deep clean due to 
mould; there was an intermittent fault with the cruise control and the rear bumper was 
loose.
Mr K contacted the dealership and it was agreed he would leave the car with them for 
them to do their inspection. The dealership said that it would be reasonable to expect 
some issues with wear and tear taking into account the age and mileage of the car.
The car was returned to Mr K but, about two weeks later in February 2019, Mr K took the 
car back to the dealership as he said the car had a knocking noise when he drove it and 
the cruise control was still only working intermittently. The dealership inspected the car.
The dealership says that when the car was examined and taken for a test drive no issue 
with the cruise control could be replicated. They were also unable to hear any of the 
noises he had complained about from the axle or from under the car. They ran a 
diagnostic test but no fault codes were stored in the ECU memory. The dealership says 
that when Mr K came to
collect the car, he accompanied them on a test drive to see if he could replicate the faults 
he was complaining about but was unable to do so. Mr K took the car back.
Mr K then complained to Oodle that the car was making a loud noise when driven, that the 
cruise control wasnt working, and the car was missing three plastic covers. Oodle 
contacted the dealership who said they had looked at the car but had been unable to find 
the faults complained of by Mr K. Oodle told Mr K what had been said by the dealership 
and asked him to provide it with either a copy of the diagnostic report carried out by the 
other garage, or arrange for the car to be independently inspected. Oodle says it also 
recommended to Mr K that he should escalate his complaint to this service if he was 
unhappy. No report about the car was received by Oodle from Mr K.
In September 2019 Oodle looked at those complaints and closed them without sending 
out a final response letter. As it hadnt written to Mr K formally to say his complaint wasnt 
upheld it wrote to him and offered to review the matter again and he asked for his 
complaint to be reconsidered as the car had a number of faults and he still wanted to 
reject it.
Mr K complained to this service that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. He said he wanted to cancel the contract and reject the car. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said, looking at the evidence 
provided, she was satisfied the car had had a number of faults which hadnt been rectified 
at the point of sale to Mr K. She said she had seen several photos and videos provided by 
Mr K.
Our investigator said that, as Mr K had raised faults with the car within the first six 
months, she would have expected Oodle to have arranged for the car to be independently 
inspected, but this hadnt been done. However, due to the passage of time, this was no 
longer an option.
Our adjudicator said it was reasonable to have expected the car to have been free of the 
faults complained of by Mr K at the point when hed acquired it. She said it would be fair 
and reasonable for Mr K to now be able to reject the car, cancel the agreement with 
nothing further to pay and receive £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Oodle disagreed with our investigators view. It said there wasnt evidence to show that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and so it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for Mr K to reject the car.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision along the following 
lines. 
Mr K had provided a number of photos and a video of the car. He had also provided 
copies of invoices from when hed had the car serviced. However, he didnt provide a 
report from the garage that he took the car to for it be inspected. Instead what he sent in 
was a business card from a garage and a list he had written out of the faults he said he 
was told had been found.
The dealership said it carried out its own diagnostics when Mr K took the car back into 
them in February 2019 but found nothing wrong with it and there were no fault codes 
stored. However, no diagnostic report was provided by the garage either. I also didnt 
have any job cards as to what repairs, if any, were carried out when the car was 
inspected for the first time in January 2019. But I did see that the car had passed its 
MOTs, without advisories, in both June 2018 and June 2019.
When  looking  at this complaint  I needed  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and 
regulations,  but Im not bound  by them  when  I consider  what  would  be fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mr K was a regulated  
consumer  credit  agreement  this service  was able to consider  complaints  
relating  to it. Oodle  was also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of 
agreement,  and responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  theres  an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  
person  would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  
price  and all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and 
finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the 
quality  of the goods.
Here,  the car wasn't  new being  nearly  six-years  old and with a mileage  of 90,500.  I 
think  that, taking  into account  these  things,  a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  
there  to be issues  with maintenance  and repair  since  components  of the car would  
have  been  subject  to wear  and tear through  use. So, unlike  a new car, there  wouldnt  
be expectation  that the car would  be fault free.
I have  seen  that many  of the issues  raised  by Mr K were  for serviceable  items  such  
as the brakes  and tyres.  And as I dont  have  sufficient  evidence  to say the condition  
of these  items  were  below  what  was permitted  in law, I couldnt  reasonably  say they 
rendered  the car unfit for purpose.  I thought  that these  parts  showing  some  wear  and 
tear would  be reasonably  expected.
Mr K raised  other  issues  such  as the smashed  underplate,  the defective  cruise  control  
and a leaking  boot.  He provided  photos,  though  Im not sure when  they were  taken.  
Id also seen  that Mr K had had the car serviced  and had some  repairs  carried  out in 
the time its been  in his possession.  He said that the invoices  he had provided  showed  
the only repairs  he had carried  out on the car.
Looking  at these  invoices  I saw that Mr K had had repairs  carried  out to the timing  
belt and water  pump  in July 2019.  This invoice  noted  that there  were  no problems  
found  with the cars  exhaust  and that although  they are some  undertray  fixings  
missing  the undertray  was secure . No repairs  were  carried  out to the cruise  control  
or to the leaking  boot by Mr K and while  I appreciated  that the car was usable  without  
cruise  control,  I had to assume  that the boot shut and locked  correctly  as otherwise  
that could  be a hazard  when  driving.
The repair  to the timing  belt was again  a serviceable  item.  Timing  belts  generally  
need  replacing  between  60,000  and 100,000  miles.  So, looking  at the mileage  for 
this car, it  appeared  that its maintenance  issues  were  due to the age and use of 
the car and not any inherent  fault.
Id seen  that Mr K had been  able to use the car in the time he has had it, having  
driven  by July 2020  an additional  20,000  miles.  While  I appreciate  there  was one 
lengthy  return  journey  undertaken  in the summer,  I thought  it was reasonable  to say 
that Mr K drove  over the average  of 1,000  miles  per month.  Taking  this into account  I 
couldnt  reasonably  say the car wasnt  fit for purpose.
Looking  at the evidence  I didnt  think  there  was sufficient  evidence  to find there  was 
a fault with the cruise  control  from the point  of sale.  However,  I thought  the video  and 
photos  showed  that there  was water  getting  into the boot and Id seen  that Mr K 
raised  issues  with the boot back  in January  2019.  But, looking  at this particular  fault,  
and taking  into account  that Mr K had been  able to use the car, including  taking  it on 
a lengthy  trip I didnt  think  I could  reasonably  say that it would  be proportionate  for him to now reject  the car due to this issue.  Instead  I thought  it would  be fair and 
reasonable  for Oodle  to pay Mr K compensation  of £200  for having  to deal with the 
faulty  boot thats  allowing  water  to ingress.
So, I intended to partially uphold Mr Ks complaint. I agreed that there was a fault with the 
boot allowing water to get in and that this issue has been present from the point of sale. 
And, although this would mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale for 
the reasons given above, I didnt think it was proportionate for Mr K to reject it. I thought 
compensation of £200 in these circumstances was fair and reasonable.
Oodle has agreed with my provisional view but Mr K has disagreed. He says that water is 
flowing in to the car when it rains. He says this happens both to the boot and down 
through the roof central panel which then leaks onto the central console and flows down 
both sides of the dashboard. He is concerned about the cars electrics and how safe the 
car is. He also says the list he provided of faults found on the car in January 2019 was told 
to him by a porfessional engineer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will be of disappointment to Mr K, but I havent changed my view and I will 
explain why.
Mr K has provided a new video of water entering the car when it rains, as well as photos of 
the interior of the car showing the damp. I accept that the car is allowing water to ingress, 
but I need to look at whether there is sufficient evidence to show this is an inherent fault with 
the car, or an issue that has developed over time and that may be due to wear and tear.
Mr K says the car had a number of faults found when he asked another garage to look at it, 
shortly after taking it from the dealership. Mr K hasnt been able to produce a report from that 
garage but has provided a list he had written of the faults he was told about by the engineer 
who looked at the car. This list didnt include anything about water being found in the car, or 
about any of the interior, including the boot, being found to be wet though it was noted that 
the boot lock needed to be adjusted as it could be hard to shut, and the parcel shelf required 
a deep clean as it was mouldy. 
The car was looked at twice by the dealership in February 2019, firstly in response to the list 
provided by Mr K and then because of a concern raised by Mr K about a knocking noise and 
the cruise control only working on an intermittent basis. The dealership was unable to find 
any fault with the car on the second occasion. Mr K didnt take the car back to the dealership 
after this second visit.
Mr K complained to Oodle about the car, but I havent seen that he raised any issues with 
water coming into the car via its doors, or the roofs central panel, nor does it appear that he 
raised that the boot was waterlogged.  And, as it was winter when he acquired the car, I 
think its likely that Mr K would have noticed the issue of the water getting into it. However, I 
accept that there did appear to be some damp in the boot at that time. 
Mr K had the car MOTd in June 2019, and it passed with no advisories. I think it more likely 
than not that, if water had been present in the boot and the rear lights, or if there had been 
signs of water getting into the interior of the car, particularly around the central console, then 
this would have been noted. Ive seen there were no advisories.Mr K also had the car serviced in July 2019 when some repairs were undertaken. No work 
was carried out on the items that had been raised in Mr Ks original list, and no work was 
undertaken to the boot, the door seals or to the cars roof. I think that if the car was letting in 
water to the extent shown by the photos and video at that time then its reasonable to have 
expected Mr K to have sought repairs. He was planning to take the car abroad and use it for 
a substantial journey, which he subsequently did undertake in the summer of 2019.
The photos of the cars interior were sent to this service, with Mr Ks complaint, in October 
2019. By this time Mr K had had the car for over nine months and appears to have used the 
car for around 1000 miles per month, plus taking it abroad in the summer. This means that 
the car would have gone through further wear and tear.
So, looking at the evidence, while I appreciate the car had a damp issue in the boot at the 
point of sale, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to say that the leaks into the interior the 
car now suffers were also present. I think these have arisen over time and are due to parts 
becoming worn. I dont think I can reasonably say Oodle is responsible for this.
While I appreciate the issue with the damp in the boot appears to have got worse, and it is 
now suffering from a leak when it rains, I think its fair to take into account the use Mr K has 
had of the car since he acquired it. I think its reasonable to conclude that with use Mr K will 
have contributed to its deterioration. I havent seen any evidence that he has sought to have 
it repaired, or investigated, which I think would have been reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, I still dont think its proportionate for Mr K to now reject the car, but it is fair and 
reasonable for Oodle to pay Mr K £200 compensation for having to deal with the faulty boot. 
Putting things right
Im asking Oodle to pay Mr K £200 for the inconvenience and distress caused by having the 
car with a faulty boot
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr K £200 as compensation for providing the car with a 
faulty boot.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman