DRN-2624642
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros handled his 
landlords buildings insurance claim for an escape of water and loss of rent. 
What happened
Mr M owns a flat that he let to the local authority in which it placed a tenant. In March 2016 
there was an escape of water in the flat and Mr M made a claim under his landlords building 
policy for the damage caused. 
Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster and the claim was accepted. Contractors attended in July 
2016 to carry out rectification works and Ocaso closed its claims file in August 2016. Shortly 
after, Mr M contacted Ocaso about some snagging issues. And there was some 
communication between the two between September 2016 and February 2017 about the 
exact nature of the works that had been carried out. Mr M became concerned that the work 
listed on the schedule of works hed been presented with hadnt actually been done. In 
particular he was concerned that no drying had been undertaken and a new floor had been 
laid on a wet sub floor. 
The loss adjuster revisited and the new floor was lifted. An infestation of cockroaches (and 
later mice) was found. The tenant complained to Mr M and to the local authority and, on 4 
June 2017, moved out. The local authority withdrew its contract with Mr M. 
Ocasos contractors eventually returned. The wet floor was removed and dehumidifiers 
installed in June 2017. A pest control expert attended over the course of a number of months 
through to October 2017 to deal with the cockroaches. The flat was certified dry in October 
and reinstatement works were undertaken in mid-December. Ocaso declared the flat 
habitable on 12 December 2017. 
Ocaso paid Mr M for lost rent from when his tenants moved out on 4 June 2017 to when the 
flat was declared habitable on 12 December 2017. 
Mr M complained to Ocaso about the way it had handled his claim and the financial loss hed 
suffered as a result. He said Ocasos failure to carry out the work listed on the original 
schedule in 2016 had caused all the subsequent issues. He said his contract with the local 
authority was a three year one which hed lost. Mr M said hed asked Ocaso to give him 
notice of when the repairs were nearing completion so he could contact a number of local 
authorities to see if they would let the flat. But he said Ocaso failed to do so meaning he 
wasnt able to get prospective tenants to view the flat until January 2017 and an agreement 
wasnt in place until February 2017. 
Mr M said he wanted Ocaso to pay for the rent hed lost from the date the flat was declared 
habitable until the date he secured a new tenant (about 2 months). Mr M also said he 
wanted compensation for the poor service hed received, the lies hed been told, the delays 
in reinstating the flat and the inconvenience and stress he was caused by the hours hed had 
to devote to the claim.
Ocaso looked into Mr Ms complaint and issued its final response letter in May 2018. It said 
his policy did provide cover for loss of rent but that itd discharged its liability under the policy 
to him in full. So is said it couldnt consider any further costs. For the delays and 
shortcomings in the service he received, Ocaso offered Mr M £500. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Ocasos investigation, Mr M complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think Ocaso had treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably so didnt recommend it was upheld. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Ocaso has dealt with the complaint Mr M raised fairly and 
reasonably. It is clear to me that this claim was poorly handled by Ocaso. And its clear Mr M 
has been put to some significant trouble and upset over the course of almost two years. So, I 
appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed that Im unable to uphold his complaint; Ill explain 
why.
For ease of reference, like our investigator, I will look at the two parts of Mr Ms complaint 
separately  the loss of rent and the service he received. 
loss of rent
I can see that Mr Ms tenant moved out on 4 June 2017, after which the flat was empty whilst 
it was dried and reinstated. The flat was deemed habitable on 12 December 2017. Ocaso 
has paid Mr M £9,941.72 for his lost rent for this entire period of time. 
Mr M has said that he would like a further two months rent paid. He says this is because 
hed asked Ocaso to let him know when the reinstatement works were nearing completion so 
he could get some local authorities round with a view to getting a tenant installed as soon 
after they were finished as possible. That seems like a reasonable and practical request for 
Mr M to have made to Ocaso. I can see that it went unheeded. Consequently, it wasnt until 
February 2018 that the flat was let again.
 
I can appreciate that this caused Mr M frustration and inconvenience but I have to consider 
the claim Mr M made against the policy terms. I can see the policy contained the following 
clause: 
Loss of rent  up to twelve months for which the Insured is legally entitled as Landlord if the
Buildings are rendered uninhabitable by any of the perils covered, PROVIDED THAT 
Insurers liability is limited to the period the Buildings are uninhabitable.
Taking the above clause into account, I think that Ocaso has discharged, in full, its liability 
under the policy for Mr Ms rent claim. Whilst it would have been helpful to Mr M for Ocaso to 
have notified him about when the repairs were coming to an end, so he could start viewings, 
it wasnt obliged to do so. So, I cant reasonably ask Ocaso to pay Mr M a further two 
months rent in the circumstances. 
serviceMr M has said he wants Ocaso to offer him an appropriate amount of compensation for the 
poor service he received. He has mentioned £10,000 or £25 per hour of his time spent trying 
to sort things out. I can see he was put to some considerable inconvenience by Ocasos 
poor claims handling and that he had to make several long-distance trips from his home to 
the flat to help manage the claim as well as spending hours on the telephone and sending 
emails.
I can understand the frustration Mr M feels about the trouble and inconvenience he was un-
necessarily put to. And it is fair to say that Ocaso couldve handled his claim much better. 
The poorly executed first repair attempt caused Mr M and his tenants avoidable stress. And 
Ocasos communications with Mr M often lacked the clarity he sought. And I can see that 
there were unnecessary delays caused, for example, in not installing the drying equipment 
quicker. 
By their very nature, all insurance claims attract a certain amount of inconvenience, thats to 
be expected. But where an insurer  through its words or deeds  makes an already 
stressful situation worse, this service can require it to pay compensation to the policyholder 
affected. I can see that this is one such case. Ocasos poor handling of the claim, poor 
communication and the unnecessary delays in reinstating the flat have caused avoidable 
trouble and upset to Mr M. 
In its final response letter to Mr M, Ocaso acknowledged its failings and offered to pay him 
compensation of £500 for the inconvenience they caused. Looking at everything, I think this 
is a fair amount of compensation to pay Mr M in the circumstances and is in line with awards 
this service has made in complaints of a similar nature. Indeed, if Mr Ms complaint had 
passed across my desk without an award of compensation having yet been offered, its 
unlikely Id have awarded more than this. 
So, I think that compensation of £500 is fair in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint and I 
cant reasonably require Ocaso to pay him any more than that. Its unclear to me whether 
Ocaso has paid the compensation to Mr M already. If it hasnt, he should contact it to 
arrange for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman