DRN-3825694
The complaint
Miss S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss S had a telematics (black box) motor insurance policy with Aviva.
On 23 August 2021, Aviva notified Miss S that her policy would be cancelled in seven days. 
This was because she had exceeded the speed limit by (what the policy defines as) an 
excessive degree. Specifically, she had driven 60 mph in a 30 mph zone. Miss S didnt think 
this was fair and denied exceeding the speed limit. She also explained there was a delay in 
her realising the policy had been cancelled as the notification email went into her junk email 
folder and the letter didnt arrive until 20 September 2021. This meant the dash cam footage 
from her car had been overwritten by the time she became aware of the cancellation, and 
she had therefore lost the opportunity to provide this as evidence she wasnt speeding.
Aviva didnt change their position, so an investigator at this service considered the 
complaint. He said he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong as they'd applied the 
policy terms fairly and promptly sent the required cancellation notifications, after the 
telematics device recorded the excessive speeding incident.
Miss S didnt accept the investigators opinion. In summary, she said it would have been 
impossible to drive 60 mph on the specific road as it was rush hour at the time of the 
incident. She also highlighted the fact she hadnt received a speeding ticket and said Avivas 
email wouldnt have gone into her junk folder if they'd configured it differently. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has raised several points in response to the investigators opinion. I've carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. 
The starting point for complaints of this nature is the contract between Aviva and Miss S  
the policy terms and conditions. In the cancellation section, the terms say Aviva will cancel 
the policy with seven days notice if an excessive speeding incident is recorded on the 
telematics device. This includes driving 45 mph in a 30 mph zone.
I accept that it's possible the telematics device could have developed a fault, as Miss S has 
said, but as Im sure she can appreciate, I cant determine this for certain. I've therefore 
reached a decision by weighing up what I think is more likely to have happened based on 
the available evidence.
Aviva have provided telematics data relating to the speeding incident. This shows the car 
accelerating (to speeds that would trigger the excessive speeding condition), the direction of 
travel, and the GPS coordinates. I can also see that Aviva checked the data to see if there 
were any errors and they concluded this wasnt the case. Ive also looked at pictures of the 
road where the incident happened. I appreciate there is potential for the road to become 
busy during rush hour, but I dont think this means it would have been impossible for Miss S 
to have driven on it at 60 mph for the short period of time the data suggests. I also dont find 
Miss Ss argument that she didnt receive a speeding ticket persuasive, as that would have 
been dependent on the police witnessing/recording the incident.
In light of the above, I dont think the available evidence suggests its likely the telematics 
device was faulty. This therefore means Aviva acted reasonably by cancelling Miss Ss 
policy, as the device recorded an excessive speeding incident and the terms say this is what 
theyll do in such circumstances.
Im also satisfied Aviva gave Miss S enough notice of the policy cancellation as they 
contacted her by post and email seven days before. It's unclear why Miss S didnt receive 
the letter until 20 September 2021, but based on the audit trail Aviva have provided, Im 
satisfied it was dispatched on the correct date. I also dont think its Avivas fault Miss S 
didnt read the email notification straight away. Aviva were only required to send the email to 
the correct email address, and I dont think they deliberately intended for it to reach her junk  
folder. Miss S could have saved Avivas email address to her safe senders list, and it's 
unfortunate she didnt do so here or check her junk email folder sooner. In any event, I dont 
think Aviva did anything wrong by notifying Miss S of the policy cancellation in the way that 
they did, despite the upset it may have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman