DRN-1026185
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Ltd no longer accepts travellers cheques. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr M contacted HSBC to ask about cashing some travellers cheques hed had for 
around eight to ten years. The bank told him that, in 2014, it decided to stop accepting 
travellers cheques and had given customers three months warning  via notices in branch  
that the service was being withdrawn. HSBC refused to cash Mr Ms travellers cheques. But 
it credited his bank account with £50, as a gesture of goodwill, towards any inconvenience 
he might experience trying to find other ways to cash the cheques.
Mr M said he didnt see the notices as he banks online and rarely visits any branches. He felt 
HSBC hadnt gone far enough to make him aware of the change in service, so it was unfair 
to refuse to cash the cheques.
Our investigator thought HSBC had acted reasonably and didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. He felt that the bank should exercise its discretion and cash 
the travellers cheques in the same way that it would accept out-of-date currency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for much the same reasons.
HSBC made a legitimate commercial decision to change its policy and no longer accept 
travellers cheques. It was entitled to make this decision and our service wouldnt interfere 
with this.
As its customer, Mr M is entitled to make a complaint about HSBC having withdrawn a 
service it previously offered, but I dont think HSBC is any more liable for his travellers 
cheques than any other business that may have cashed them in the past. I say this because 
while the money Mr M used to buy the cheques may have come from his HSBC account, it 
seems they were travel agency-branded. So it doesnt seem that HSBC actually received the 
funds for, or guaranteed, them regardless of any previous relationship it may have had with 
the travel agency. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about out-of-date currency, but I think this situation is different. 
Banks have guaranteed routes through which they can exchange such currency for its value, 
so they dont risk suffering a loss. But the same arrangements arent in place for travellers 
cheques. It seems to me that, after paying out the cash, the bank would have to pursue the 
issuer of the cheque to get its money back, with no guarantee of success
But in any event, as Ive already said, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to make the decision 
not to offer this service anymoreI understand Mr M is unhappy he wasnt better informed about the service being withdrawn. 
But I think HSBCs decision to advertise this particular change in branch only was sufficient. I 
say that given travellers cheques had largely fallen out of favour by 2014, and there was no 
way the bank would have known which of its customers might have unspent cheques that 
they intended to cash with it. It seems likely, in the circumstances, that the number of 
affected customers would have been quite small.
Im also conscious that Mr M has said he bought the travellers cheques eight to ten years 
before he made this enquiry with the bank. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect the 
possibility a bank might change its policies in that period of time. Moreover, it seems that  Mr 
M had forgotten he even had the cheques  he tells us he came across them in a drawer. So 
I think its arguable, even if the bank had notified him about the withdrawal of this service in 
other ways, Mr M might not have realised this information was directly relevant to him. So, I 
cant reasonably conclude that he would have cashed in the cheques during the 3-month 
window before the service was withdrawn. 
Finally, there still appears to be ways Mr M can cash the cheques, although he might incur a 
charge for doing so. But HSBC has already given him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I think 
thats generous, in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman