DRN-3762172
The complaint
Mr C complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) unfairly declined his claim for storm damage 
under his home insurance policy. Hed like them to accept the claim and pay for a 
replacement garden wall.
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy with QIC, which I understand started on 25 August 2021. 
Mr C said that storm winds blew his garden boundary wall over on 29 January 2022. He said 
this damaged part of his roof verge. He notified QIC of his claim on 1 February 2022. QIC 
appointed a surveyor to visit the property to assess the damage.
QICs surveyor carried out the assessment of the damage on 15 February 2022. The 
resulting report said that the front dry verge capping was loose and that one section needed 
refitting to enable the loose sections to be fixed. It also said that the brick wall had partially 
fallen over. And that because an additional fence had been attached to the wall, it was now 
higher than regulated guidelines. And had substantially weakened the wall. The report also 
noted that the mortar had decayed and crumbled away. And that this had compromised the 
structural integrity of the wall.
Mr C said that QICs surveyor had told him the damage to the verge was covered by the 
insurance. But that when he didnt hear from QIC about his claim, he contacted them to find 
that his case had been closed. So he complained. He felt that QIC should cover his full claim 
as his insurance policy stated that garden walls were covered when there was damage to 
the house during the same incident. He said this was the case given the verge was 
damaged. 
QIC asked their in-house surveyors to review the case. They agreed with the initial surveyor 
that the underlying causes of the damage were poor workmanship and gradual deterioration.  
They said that the dry verge system wasnt securely fixed into the battens. And that this had 
made it susceptible to damage during high winds.
QIC issued their final response to the complaint on 23 May 2022. They felt theyd fairly 
declined the claim. They said that although storm conditions had been present at the time of 
the damage, they hadnt been the direct cause of the damage.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the claim should be upheld. He felt that QIC had fairly and 
reasonably concluded that the damage to Mr Cs garden wall and roof verge - although 
worsened by the storm - was a result of poor condition and poor workmanship.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that QIC had changed their position during the 
course of his claim. He said that QICs surveyor had initially agreed that the verge damage 
was covered by his policy. He also felt that QIC hadnt considered other structural aspects of 
his wall which he felt had strengthened it.  
Mr C also said that QIC couldnt question the roof workmanship, as he said his house had an 
entirely new roof covering installed in 2018. He said that the new dry verge had been 
installed at the same time and that all works had been fully signed off under building controls 
when the works were completed.
Mr C also wanted to know what tests QICs surveyor had carried out before theyd decided 
that the mortar was decayed.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr C. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
When we look into this sort of complaint, our role is to look at all the available evidence. In 
this case, both parties agree that there was a storm at the time of the damage. But they 
disagree on whether or not the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
I need to make a decision about what the most likely reason for the damage was. If that 
shows the damage occurred primarily or entirely because of the effect of sudden storm 
conditions, such as strong winds or torrential rain, then I would likely uphold it. 
We also take into account the condition of the property at the time the storm damage is said 
to have occurred. If I decide the evidence shows the wall and the roof verge were already in 
a poor state of repair at the time of the storm, I cant uphold a complaint against QIC for 
declining the claim. This is because the storm probably wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. 
The only report of the damage that I have was provided by QICs surveyor. This was dated 
15 February 2022. It said the following:
The front dry verge capping is loose and one section requires refitting, the others require 
taken off and refitted to enable the loose cap to be refitted, the half brick wall to the rear has 
partially fallen and I noted severe areas of mortar decay, on closer inspection I noticed the 
wall had been added in height in the past to a smaller single brick wall and then a small 
fence added on top, due to the increased wall height then the fence the wall has been 
substantially weakened which was highlighted by the wind and no cover is considered, wall 
is built higher than building regs guidelines and is decayed and leaning.
The report stated that the cause of the damage was age-related decay. And also stated that 
the cost of the roof verge would be less than the policy excess. 
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the case and concluded that the underlying causes of the 
damage were both gradual deterioration and poor workmanship. They declined the claim in 
full on that basis.
I next considered the terms of the policy. QIC declined the claim on the basis of points 12 
and 13 of the general exclusions of the policy wording. And also noted what they didnt cover 
under the storm section. The relevant wording is:
General exclusions12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
-Wear and tear;
-Fall in value over time; 
-gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not); 
-exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions;
-normal settlement;
-warping or shrinkage;
-rusting or corrosion;
-wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause);
-fungus, mildew or mould;
-infestation (for example by vermin): and
-costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
13. Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including latent 
defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only causes a 
problem at a later stage under certain conditions).
Section 1  Buildings cover
3. Storm
We dont cover
d. anything that happens gradually.
From what Ive seen, QICs in-house surveyor felt that there was evidence of poor 
workmanship with the dry verge not being installed correctly. They also felt that the addition 
to the wall had compromised its structural integrity  this could also fairly be described as 
poor workmanship. And noted that there was deterioration to the wall mortar which had also 
contributed to the failure of the wall. This could be described as gradual deterioration. They 
felt that these issues had caused the damage, rather than the storm.
Mr C felt that QIC had initially agreed that the verge damage was covered by his policy. And 
that QIC hadnt considered other structural aspects of his wall which he felt had 
strengthened it. He also said that hed had a new dry verge installed relatively recently. Mr C 
also wanted to know what tests QICs surveyor had carried out before theyd decided that 
the mortar was decayed.
Ive carefully considered all of Mr Cs points. I acknowledge that QICs initial surveyors 
report did state that the cost of the roof verge could be considered under the storm part of 
the policy. I also acknowledge that under the storm part of the policy, it states under We dont cover:
b. Loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges unless 
your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same
So I can understand why Mr C feels that QIC had changed their position. But Im of the view 
that, after their in-house surveyor had considered the case, they reasonably considered that 
the verge damage had been largely caused by poor workmanship. I say this because they 
said the following:
When introducing a dry verge system onto an existing roof, the installer should consider if 
there are adequate fixings to enable the dry verge system to be installed correctly. The 
damage has been caused by the individual verge unit not being securely fixed into either 
batten ends or a timber batten which should run the length of the verge. Due to this defect, 
the unit has been susceptible to wind, which eventually has allowed the unit to dislodge.
This led to QICs conclusion that the damage was due to poor workmanship. 
I acknowledge that Mr C has told this service that his new dry verge was installed under 
building controls, but the evidence from QIC shows that the works were not completed as 
they shouldve been. Therefore, while I understand that Mr C will be disappointed with this, 
Im satisfied that QIC acted fairly, and under the terms of the policy, when they declined to 
cover the cost of the roof verge due to poor workmanship.
QIC said that the mortar failure in the wall was a result of the gradual deterioration of the 
material. Mr C wanted to know what tests had been carried out before they came to that 
conclusion. 
From what Ive seen, QICs surveyor took photos of the mortar where it was crumbling 
between the bricks. These showed that some bricks were cracked. And there was moss 
growing on the mortar. Im satisfied that these photos show that the wall was deteriorating 
with age. And that this wouldve compromised the walls structural integrity. 
QIC didnt need to carry out any tests on the mortar before they came to this conclusion. I 
say this because Mr Cs policy, like most insurance policies, offers cover for a defined set of 
insured events, subject to certain exclusions and limitations. In order for a claim to be 
successful, he has to show that the loss or damage hes claiming for was caused by one of 
these events. Its not the case that QIC must test the mortar in order for them to conclude 
that it was crumbling. Instead, its Mr Cs responsibility to supply evidence that the wall 
collapsed due to an insured event. 
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that the wall was showing signs of age-related 
deterioration before the storm. And Im persuaded that QIC has provided evidence that both 
the wall and the roof verge showed signs of poor workmanship. 
Im satisfied that the storm merely highlighted the poor workmanship to the roof verge, and 
the workmanship and mortar decay to the wall. And I cant fairly say that the storm was the 
direct cause of the damage. Therefore I dont agree that QIC unfairly declined the claim. And 
I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman