DRN-3869048
The complaint
N complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) accepted a switching request for its 
account from another bank before it had made the decision about which bank it was going to 
move to.
N is represented by its director, Mr S.
What happened
Ns bank offered it a financial incentive to switch its account to a new bank. There were 
numerous banks that N could switch to, two of which looked to be suitable options for Ns 
needs, so they applied to both before the deadline for applications was reached.
There was a further deadline by which the switch had to take place in order for N to receive 
the incentive. In the interim, N was in discussions with these two banks, one of which was 
Co-op, about what facilities would be available to them.
N required an overdraft equivalent to the one it held with its current bank. Neither Co-op nor 
the other bank were able to match the current facility N had, however Co-op offered N a 
£40,000 overdraft facility if the directors provided their home as security. The other bank 
offered a £25,000 overdraft facility subject to credit checks.
Co-op agreed not to accept the switch while the negotiations about the overdraft facility 
continued, however, they did accept the switch before the discussions concluded and 
without Ns agreement.
N complained to the Co-op explaining it hadnt yet decided which bank it was going to move 
to. Co-op apologised for their error but were unable to stop or reverse the switch. There was 
no overdraft in place for N with the Co-op at the time this happened. 
Co-op apologised to N in their final response letter and offered £200 as an apology for the 
inconvenience their errors had caused it. Co-op also provided N with a letter to give to its 
customers explaining that the issue was a bank error and not caused by any fault of Ns.
N was unhappy with this response and as Co-op considered the matter to be closed, Mr S 
brought Ns complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. As Co-op had since increased their offer to 
£500, our investigator considered whether she thought this fairly compensated N for the 
issues caused by Co-ops error. 
She didnt think that Co-op had asked for any unreasonable information before approving the 
overdraft. So, she focused her investigation on the impact the unexpected switch had on N 
and its customers. She felt that the £500 offered by Co-op was a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience caused by their error.
Mr S disagreed and said the amount suggested did not compensate for the stress, confusion 
and inconvenience Co-ops error had caused N. He asked for an ombudsmans decision, so 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
Having reviewed the matter, I contacted Mr S and Co-op in an attempt to resolve the 
complaint informally. I said that I was minded to uphold the complaint and to ask Co-op to 
increase the amount of compensation they had offered to £1,000. Co-op agreed to increase 
their offer, but Mr S said this still fell short of what he believed was fair compensation for the 
error. 
He said, in summary, that the unauthorised move to Co-op was hugely stressful and 
inconvenient and it has taken a huge amount of time for N to liaise with its customers and 
put things right. Some of Ns orders were delayed and some payments went missing. 
Mr S said the situation affected Ns reputation and that in 2023 N would need to move its 
customers for a second time to the bank it had originally wanted to switch to. So, he asked 
me to provide a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information available to me, I can see there is no dispute that Co-op 
were at fault here. Mr S specifically asked for the switch not to be actioned before the 
overdraft was agreed and there is an acknowledgement on the file from Co-op assuring the 
directors of N that this wouldnt happen.
As this fact is agreed by all parties, Ive considered whether it is likely N wouldve chosen to 
switch to Co-op or the other bank they were negotiating with. 
From the evidence available to me, I think it is unlikely N wouldve chosen to switch to Co-
op. I say this because it is evident that Mr S was unhappy with what was required by Co-op 
to put the overdraft facility in place. I can also see that N proceeded to open an account with 
the other bank it was negotiating with before the unexpected switch to Co-op went ahead. N 
wouldve been in time to receive the switching schemes cash incentive from the other bank 
and Ive also seen evidence that N intends to move its full banking relationship to the other 
bank in the coming months. As such, Im satisfied N never intended to switch to Co-op.
Ive also considered whether I think Co-ops application process for the overdraft facility was 
fair. Considering the amount of the requested overdraft, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
the Co-op to ask for additional security or for them to ask N to seek independent legal 
advice. Ultimately, these requirements are part of the banks commercial lending decision 
and we would not look to interfere with them.
Ive next considered the impact the unexpected switch had on N. I understand that at very 
short notice the directors of N had to:
manually transfer direct debits set up on the debit card held with the previous bank
manually set up new payments for overseas customers
re-issue invoices to customers, including new customers who needed to be 
reassured that this was a legitimate request and not a fraudulent request
make payments from the director's personal accounts while awaiting access to online banking
endure the inconvenience of a bounced overseas payment which then went missing 
for a number of weeks
This is all inconvenience N wouldnt have had to spend time rectifying if Co-op hadnt made 
the error of accepting the switch in the first place. 
However, I can see N managed to mitigate some of its issues with paying suppliers by 
transferring funds to another account. I appreciate this was inconvenient and time 
consuming, but it meant there was no significant delays in N paying its suppliers.
In addition, the Co-op provided letters for Ns customers, taking responsibility for any 
inconvenience caused to them by the sudden change in account. This will have helped to 
limit any damage to Ns reputation.
Co-op also refunded the charge for tracing the missing overseas payment. And I can see the 
cash incentive for switching was paid to N when it was due.
I appreciate that N was unprepared for the amount of work the unexpected switch caused, 
however the deadline for completing the switch to any bank was approaching. So, I think it is 
fair to say that N mustve been anticipating some additional administrative tasks around this 
time - albeit not to the extent that Co-ops error caused.
As a result of the serious inconvenience N has been caused by its directors having to spend 
time resolving this matter when they could have been contributing to the business, I think 
£1,000 compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr S thinks this should be more, but this is in line with what I think is 
reasonable and what I think reflects the disruption and inconvenience N faced when the 
switch was actioned without its agreement. 
Mr S told us that N plans to transfer all its banking away from Co-op in early 2023 but as this 
has not yet occurred, Im unable to consider this as a potential loss. I can only consider what 
has actually happened so far.
In addition, I understand N has had some further issues with Co-op during the course of their 
relationship. However, as our investigator explained, these would need to be considered as 
a separate complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay N 
£1,000 compensation for the inconvenience caused by their error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman