DRN-3022850
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mrs B says Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
CBS had to make it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI. CBS no longer has 
any documents from the time of the sale, which I dont think is unreasonable considering 
it was nearly 30 years ago and Mrs B redeemed her mortgage around 25 years ago. But 
CBS has been able to give me sample documents it says were in use at the time. 
Looking at these I think they represent what Mrs B would have seen at the time. Mrs B 
first took out her mortgage in January 1992 and CBS say she took out PPI at this time. 
Mrs B would have had to complete a separate PPI application form to take out the cover. 
So I think it would have been clear that it was a separate optional product. And with 
nothing to suggest otherwise, I think Mrs B chose to take out the policy, knowing she 
didnt have to. 
CBS changed the insurance provider for their PPI in October 1992. In order to keep her 
cover, Mrs B would have had to complete a transfer of PPI application form, otherwise 
her PPI policy would not have continued past December 1992. Because Mrs Bs policy 
remained in force, CBS has said she would have completed a PPI transfer form. So I 
think its more likely Mrs B chose to keep the policy and she was aware that she didnt 
have to.
CBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs B enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information CBS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Mrs B said to us that she thought she was a temporary worker at the 
time, but this is because she thought the sale could have been around 1970. CBS 
confirmed that during a telephone call with Mrs B, she explained she had been a 
temporary worker for a company for a few years, before becoming a permanent 
employee in the mid 1970s and staying there for over 30 years. Because of this, I think 
its more likely she was a permanent employee in 1992 when she took out the policy. So 
I dont think Mrs B was affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. 
And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems. It looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs B would 
have declined the cover had CBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant CBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means CBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman