DRN-3409433
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was unable to make loan payments to Prodigy Finance Ltd because 
of issues with its payment systems. As a result he was charged additional interest and the 
outstanding balance of his loan has increased.
What happened
Mr D took out a loan for $27,000 with Prodigy in 2016. Mr D would usually make his 
payments to the loan over the phone, but in early 2020 that option was temporarily 
unavailable. Mr D contacted Prodigy to ask for help but does not feel it gave him appropriate 
assistance in making the payments to his loan. Mr D is also concerned that the outstanding 
balance of his loan is now more than he initially borrowed.
Mr D raised a complaint with Prodigy, and it looked into what had happened. Prodigy says 
that it offered Mr D other ways to make the payments to his loan but that Mr D did not make 
the payments as required, and so has incurred additional interest on his loan.
Mr D was unhappy with Prodigys response and so he referred his complaint to us. Our 
Investigator looked at what had happened but did not feel Prodigy had done anything wrong. 
They acknowledged that Mr D was unable to make payment over the phone, but felt that 
Prodigy had provided other reasonable options for Mr D to make payment. The Investigator 
also did not feel any error had been made in the outstanding balance of Mr Ds loan as 
interest and charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the loan.
Mr D does not accept this finding, so his complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr D that I have also listened to his conversations with our Investigators to 
ensure I have a full picture of his concerns. Having done so, I agree with our Investigators 
findings and for the same reasons.
Having listened to the conversations Mr D had with Prodigy, its clear there were issues with 
phone payments. But its also clear that Prodigy tried to assist Mr D by providing a number of 
alternative payment methods that he could use. Mr D told Prodigy his payment had been 
rejected via one of the alternative payment methods it had suggested. But theres no clear 
evidence to show why that failed, and Ive also not seen anything to show that Mr D tried all 
the alternative payment methods that Prodigy detailed. Mr D did say hed been to a branch 
of Prodigys bank to try and make a direct payment but that he was told international 
payments were not possible. But Prodigy has spoken to its bank and was told there was no 
such issue with payments to its account at that time, it has also noted that no other 
customers reported issues with any of the offered repayment methods around that time.
I appreciate that Mr D feels that it was unfair for Prodigy to continue to charge him interest 
when its payment systems were down, but I dont agree that is what happened here. 
Although I understand that paying by phone was Mr Ds preferred method, and that payment 
method was temporarily unavailable, other methods were available and were explained to 
Mr D. So I consider that Prodigy took reasonable steps to assist Mr D with making the 
payments to his loan. And as Mr D did not make the required payments, his loan account 
went into arrears. 
Prodigy was then entitled to apply interest to those arrears amounts in line with the terms 
and conditions of the loan. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that any interest or charges 
have been added incorrectly or that Mr Ds loan balance is higher than it should be. The loan 
agreement he signed clearly explained how much he would be repaying, and that this 
amount could increase if he made payments late or missed payments that were due to the 
loan. 
I think its also worth noting that Mr D had not made payments to his loan since around 
November 2019, several months before the issue with phone payments. And that when 
phone payments were once again possible, in July 2020, he cleared the existing arrears but 
then did not continue to make the contractually due payments to his loan. 
So in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair to tell Prodigy to write off any of 
the additional interest Mr D incurred.
With all this in mind, I think Prodigy has treated Mr D fairly and reasonably, and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman