DRN-3397986
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Society of Lloyds has declined to backdate a claim he made for 
disability on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G stopped working due to anxiety in March 2020 and therefore made a claim on the 
policy. Society of Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that Mr G had not been certified 
unfit to work by a consultant or been referred to a specialist. However, Society of Lloyds has 
now agreed to pay the claim from 22 March 2021 due to Mr G providing evidence that he 
had a first appointment with therapeutic services on that date. However, Mr G is unhappy 
about that as he believes that the claim should be backdated to when he first became ill in 
March 2020. 
Our adjudicator thought that Society of Lloyds had acted reasonably in initially declining the 
claim, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, and that it was again reasonable 
for Society of Lloyds to later agree to pay the claim from March 2021. Mr G disagrees with 
the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms explain that disability claims will not be paid for:
Psychiatric illness or mental or nervous disorder, including stress and stress related 
conditions, 
unless such illness, disorder or condition has been investigated and diagnosed by a 
Community Mental Health Team overseen by a member of the Royal College of 
Psychiatrists, or has been investigated and diagnosed by a consultant psychiatrist.
It also states that:
All medical reports to support psychiatric illness claims must be produced and signed by a 
member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
Based on the available evidence, Mr Gs claim doesnt satisfy the above requirements of the 
policy. Thats because his GP had not done a referral to a mental health team and he had 
not received a diagnosis. Instead, Mr G has referred himself to a Talking Therapies (TT) 
team, which does not meet the definition set out above.
However, due to the pandemic, Society of Lloyds relaxed the conditions for making a 
successful claim. So instead of requiring someone to be under the care of a consultant, it 
was willing to accept claims in instances where there had been a referral to a resource such 
as Talking Therapies.
As such, Society of Lloyds asked Mr G on a number of occasions to clarify the situation in 
relation to any counselling or therapy. It also contacted his GP for more information. 
In June 2020 Mr G said that he had tried to contact TT but that they were difficult to get hold 
of, so hed decided to try and deal with his anxiety himself and would try TT in the future if he 
deemed it necessary. As a result, Society of Lloyds sent Mr G a letter declining his claim in 
July 2020.
As Mr G disputed the outcome of his claim, Society of Lloyds sought updates on the 
situation. For example, it contacted his GP again in July 2020 who said she was unable to 
provide any information about whether Mr G had started counselling with TT. And it told Mr 
G to let it know if he did hear from TT or received any other treatment in the meantime.
Mr G says that he did contact TT in October 2020. Although he may have spoken to them, 
there is no evidence that he pursued matters with them any further at that time or made a 
self-referral.
In February 2021 Mr G tells Society of Lloyds that he will be speaking with his GP again 
soon and will be looking at the possibility of perhaps seeking some counselling if he is able. 
Then on 2 March 2021 TT writes to Mr G, thanking him for his recent self-referral. Upon 
receiving evidence that Mr Gs first appointment with TT was on 22 March 2021, Society of 
Lloyds agreed to accept the claim from that date.
Society of Lloyds responded to the pandemic and the consequent increase in waiting times 
for mental health referrals, by waiving the strict criteria required under the policy that needed 
someone to be diagnosed by a psychiatrist. Instead, it was accepting claims where a 
policyholder was receiving therapy or counselling from a community based resource such as 
TT. I consider this relaxing of the rules to be a reasonable approach by Society of Lloyds.
It was also reasonable for Society of Lloyds to require Mr G to produce some substantive 
evidence in support of his claim. Mr M saying that he was dealing with his anxiety himself 
because TT was very busy was insufficient to meet even the new relaxed claim criteria. Im 
satisfied that it was appropriate that Society of Lloyds accepted the claim from March 2021 
when a sufficient level of evidence was received. As such, I consider it reasonable that 
Society of Lloyds has not agreed to backdate the claim. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman