DRN-3536227
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have failed to refund money he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out previously 
by the investigator, so I will not repeat all the details again here. Instead, I will focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to his Edge 
wallet via Simplex using his Starling debit card (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Starling, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Starling should have done more to prevent Mr S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr S has lost nearly £4,000. But this amount wasnt paid in 
one single large or out of character transaction. It was spread over seven separate 
smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly 
unusual or out of character, such that they ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam.
The payments were not of such a large amount, for example, that it would have 
appeared overly unusual, and Im not persuaded there were any other indications 
that Mr S was falling victim to a scam. I understand that he didnt typically use his 
Starling account to make payments, but it wouldnt automatically be an indication of a 
scam if outward transactions started to be made from the account, particularly when 
they are not of a significantly high value. So, having considered the payments Mr S 
made to Simplex, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to 
have triggered Starlings fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he 
was in the process of being scammed. 
With regards to Mr Ss chargeback claim, Mastercard have clarified that if a merchant 
doesnt make funds available on a trading account in which theyve been deposited, 
then a chargeback right may exist. But in this instance, Mr S made his payment 
directly to his Edge wallet via Simplex for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which he 
duly received. His funds would have been available to trade from his Edge wallet; it 
was only when they were transferred to the scammer that the funds were 
subsequently lost. So, he could not claim that he did not receive the goods or 
services paid for from his Starling debit card. Therefore, I dont think Starling acted 
unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim any further. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. But Im not persuaded Starling have acted unreasonably here, so 
I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman