DRN-3294038
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mishandled his chargeback claims 
and failed to refund money he says he lost between 2016 and 2018 to scammers posing as 
binary options traders.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been set out 
extensively in the investigators assessment, so I do not intend repeating everything again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
I have first considered whether Barclays acted fairly in how it has dealt with Mr Ps claim to 
refund the payments made to various merchants (UFX.com, BECFD, VIX500, Blonde Bear 
etc.) on his debit card and its decision to not raise chargeback claims on every payment he 
made. 
Mr P contacted Barclays on 29 January 2018 to say that he thought they had been the victim 
of a scam, and then disputed the payments he had made on 1 February 2018. Mr P said the 
services he was promised were not provided to him and he was unable to make withdrawals. 
As Mr P paid for the services using his debit card and wanted a refund, Ive considered 
whether Barclays dealt with that request fairly. The payments Mr P made to the various 
merchants spanned from 2017 to 2018.
Payments made before October 2017
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did not specifically 
cover binary-options/investment trading at the time of Mr Ps payments made prior to 
October 2017. Visas rules were expanded to cover situations whereby binary 
options/investment traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances 
from 14 October 2017. But the rules only applied to transactions made on or after this date.
Given that multiple disputed transactions in this case occurred before the changes to Visas 
rules were published, Barclays could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if 
either of the merchants had promised Mr P  in writing  guaranteed returns/profits which 
were not received. Mr P did not provide persuasive evidence to demonstrate this. So, failing 
to attempt a chargeback claim on Mr Ps behalf for any of these transactions, where there 
were no reasonable prospects of success, was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise 
of Barclays discretion.
Payments made after October 2017 
Visa expanded its rules to cover situations whereby binary options/investment traders 
prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances from 14 October 2017.
The applicable reason code was 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) and it required very 
specific evidence. Mr P needed to present dated evidence that he had an available balance 
(in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw 
sums equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day. Unfortunately Mr P did 
not appear to have this available evidence for any of the merchants he transferred money to.
Barclays could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if Mr P had produced 
this evidence. But all he has been able to produce are emails from one of the merchants 
(VIX500) which confirms that a withdrawal request has been made, which wouldnt meet the 
requirements set out above. Im aware that in these types of cases, consumers only realise 
there is a problem when they no longer have available balances, or their balances have 
dramatically reduced. This might be because the merchant manipulates the trading software 
and whilst this is unfortunate, it doesnt change Visas chargeback rule requirements.
I understand that certain chargeback claims were raised for several payments Mr P made, of 
which some were successful at pre-arbitration (although it is not clear why or on what basis 
this was). And I also acknowledge that Barclays refunded certain payments to Mr P as a 
gesture of goodwill. But taking into account all of the above and the evidence required in 
order for a claim to be successful, I dont think Barclays can be held liable for failing to 
pursue a chargeback claim on Mr Ps behalf where there were no reasonable prospects of 
success. It would have been a reasonable exercise of Barclays discretion not to pursue any 
such claims in these circumstances.
Could more have been done by Barclays to limit Mr Ps loss?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr P for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009/2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This 
is because they were made by Mr P using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Barclays. These must be regarded as authorised payments even if Mr P believes he was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend his money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I understand that some of the payments Mr P has made over the years have gone to 
merchants that could be described as fraudulent (i.e. in the sense that they were dishonestly 
making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of 
making a gain for themselves). However, Im not satisfied that all the merchants he 
transferred money to necessarily meet the legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
UFX.com, for example, has no adverse information recorded on either the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) website, or on the International Organisation of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) warning portal. And although it may not be regulated in the UK, it does appear to 
have been regulated in other jurisdictions. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice. So, at the time Mr P made payments UFX.com, Im not persuaded there 
was any obligation on it to intervene or block them from being made.
The situation with some of the other merchants Mr P paid is not so clear cut. For VIX 500, for 
example, I cant see that there have been any warnings issued by the FCA or IOSCO. But 
then it also doesnt appear to be regulated or licensed to trade in binary options on behalf of 
consumers, which can indicate that a merchant is operating fraudulently. But given there 
were no published warnings, I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have automatically 
blocked any payments going to this merchant (or for any other merchants he has paid that 
had no active warnings).
In terms of BECFD, there have since been warnings published about this merchant on the 
FCAs website indicating that it is operating as a scam. But this was not until after Mr P had 
already made payments to the merchant. So, similarly, there would have been no obligation 
on Barclays to automatically block transactions going to this merchant at the time. 
However, there was a published warning at the time about one of the merchants Mr P had 
paid  Blonde Bear  which was issued on 26 April 2017 and so was in place at least a 
month before he made his first payment to this merchant on 30 June 2017. 
It is not unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its internal 
alerts to include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities 
without permission. I accept that the warning did not specifically relate to binary-options 
trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these 
were fraudsters. Given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment to Blonde Bear on 
30 June 2017, I think Barclays ought to have automatically blocked it; as it had a fair chance 
to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published and the 
payment being made. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not 
be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly 
questioned Mr P before processing this payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.However, that does not mean that Barclays is automatically liable to refund Mr P this money; 
I must still be satisfied that any intervention by the bank would have likely prevented Mr P 
from continuing with the transaction  thereby preventing his loss. But having considered all 
the evidence, on balance, Im not persuaded that any intervention would have ultimately 
prevented him from making the payment to Blonde Bear.
Despite there being no other apparent warnings in place for the other merchants Mr P paid, 
Barclays still blocked several payments he attempted to make between 2016 and 2017, 
where it even warned him that some of the companies he was attempting to pay may not be 
legitimate. For example, he spoke to Barclays on 18 January 2017 when they blocked a 
payment he was trying to make to another merchant. The agent said it was showing as 
being a Chinese website advertising under a different name, which their system had blocked 
as something that looked suspicious. 
Barclays recommended that further research should be carried out to make sure it was 
genuine. However, despite this warning, Mr P was happy to proceed with the payment 
despite the bank having concerns about the merchants legitimacy. He said he had placed 
similar trades before with other companies and did not appear to have any concerns. 
Therefore, although Barclays ought to have automatically blocked the payments Mr P made 
to Blonde Bear pending further enquiry (as it did with some of the other payments), Im not 
persuaded that any intervention would have ultimately made any difference in these 
circumstances. Mr Ps transaction history shows that he had a lot of experience in making 
these sorts of trades and betting through binary options, which come with a significant risk of 
losing money.  So even if Barclays had warned him of the legitimacy of Blonde Bear, based 
on the previous conversations he had with the bank and his history of placing these trades, I 
think he would have still proceeded to make the payments, as this was something he had 
done many times before. 
For all of the other potentially fraudulent merchants Mr P paid (who did not have any active 
published warnings), I dont consider that any of the payments he made would have 
appeared unusual in comparison with his normal pattern of spending. And even if it did  and 
even if any others had active warnings in place at the time the payments were made  I dont 
consider it likely that any intervention by Barclays would have ultimately prevented his loss, 
for the reasons Ive set out above.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, and I sympathise with the position 
he has found himself in as he has lost a significant amount of money. But in the 
circumstances, I do not consider there to be any fair and reasonable basis in which Barclays 
can be held liable for his loss. So, I will not be asking them to take any further action or to 
refund his money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman