DRN-3857684
The complaint
Miss V complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) mis-sold her contracts for differences 
(CFDs) and didnt inform her of the risks associated with this type of trading when she 
opened her CFD account. 
Miss V is represented in this complaint, but to keep things simple I have referred to Miss V 
throughout.
What happened
Miss V opened a CFD trading account with T212 in July 2020. She says she was not 
informed of the risks associated with CFD trading when she opened the account. She placed 
a total of 435 trades from when the account was opened until she ceased trading in 
November 2020. She lost around £57,000 in this period, which was her entire investment, so 
she complained to T212 in December 2021. Ive summarised her key complaint points 
below:
- T212 failed to act in accordance with the FCAs Principles of Business and 
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules that
a. Contrary to COBS 10A.2, T212 allowed her to open a CFD account and trade 
when it wasnt appropriate for her 
b. They failed to act with due skill and care (Principle 2).
c. They failed to have due regard to the interests of their customers and treat 
them fairly (Principle 6).
- Low risk ISAs were deliberately placed with high risk accounts to encourage 
easy transfer between accounts, this and the communications with T212 are 
deliberately misleading to lure customers into gambling CFDs.
- Risk warnings are deliberately left in small print and not as prominent when 
compared with their advertising contrary to COBS 22.5.8 which says the risk 
warning must be prominent.
- Customers are incentivised by T212 offering free shares when onboarding 
customers with a goal to have them eventually trading CFDs.
To resolve her complaint she wants a refund of her total losses of £57,000 plus 8% interest, 
£1000 compensation and reimbursement of the fees shes incurred in seeking legal advice. 
T212 issued a final response letter to Miss V in January 2022, saying an appropriateness 
assessment was done when her account was opened which she passed. They say she had 
mentioned a professional qualification which would assist her understanding of trading 
CFDs so she knew about the nature and risks of CFDs and that they were entitled to rely on 
the information she had provided them. They also quoted several sections of their account 
terms and conditions which she agreed to and advised of the numerous clear risk warnings 
she was given at different stages about CFD trading.
T212 say she made no contact with them to mention any issues or raise appropriateness, 
and there was no communication with them after account opening until her representative 
contacted them a year later regarding this complaint. They say they didnt breach any 
regulatory requirements and rejected her complaint, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint in detail and agreed with T212. He 
considered whether the account was appropriate for Miss V and whether the risks of this 
type of trading had been explained. He said there wasnt any evidence that T212 had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss V didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Miss V that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
this complaint and for the same reasons as the investigator. I will explain further.
As a regulated firm, the rules by which T212 must conduct their business are outlined in the 
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. COBS 10.2 
outlines the requirements that T212 had to follow.
COBS 10.2.1 R 01/11/2007 
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client. 
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm: 
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded; 
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to those particular 
investment services or transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the 
client is classified as a professional client. 
COBS 10.2.2 R 01/11/2007 The information regarding a client's knowledge and 
experience in the investment field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of 
the client, the nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product 
or transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks involved, 
information on: 
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar; 
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out; 
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
T212 had to gather relevant information of Miss Vs financial situation, knowledge and 
understanding of investments, her investment experience and to establish if she understood 
the risks involved in the service and product offered  to decide if it was appropriate for her. She completed her Know Your Client (KYC) information online and provided T212 with the 
information they needed. I have to make my decision based on the evidence I have and so I 
am looking at the questions Miss V was asked when she opened her account and the 
response she gave to these. In the application, she confirmed she was a self-employed 
therapist and not an experienced trader nor was she high net worth investor. It is noted that 
she did not have experience of CFD trading, but this alone does not mean CFDs are not 
appropriate for her. She was asked about her trading history and the question and answers 
are noted below.
- Number of trades in CFD (on an execution only basis) in the course of the last 
year?  0 
- How many times have you placed trades in CFD/leveraged products (on an 
execution only basis) in the course of the last 3 years?  not answered 
- Average sum of your monthly deposits for CFD trading on non-advised basis in the 
course of the last year?  Under 0 USD 
- Number of years experience of CFD trading on a non-advised basis?  0
- Do you have any professional experience or qualifications which would assist your 
understanding of the nature and risks of trading CFDs?  yes  prof-qualification
- Do you have any previous professional experience which would assist your 
understanding of the nature and risks of trading CFDs?  not answered
If you have deposited £3000 and the leverage ratio is 1:10, what is the maximum 
amount you could trade with us?  30000
-My position/s may be automatically closed when: account running at a loss "
This shows Miss V didnt have prior experience of this type of non-advised trading, but she 
also adds that she had a professional qualification which would assist her understanding of 
the nature and risks of trading CFDs. She was also able to answer further questions about 
leverage and positions closing automatically. 
The information she has provided T212 is what they have relied on. COBS 10.2.4 confirms, 
T212 are within their rights to rely on the information that has been provided to them when 
the account was opened. 
To be clear, there was no requirement that T212 had to decline her application simply 
because she lacked the relevant experience. The rules require T212 to give an enhanced 
warning about the risk of this type of trading and let Miss V decide for herself she if wished to 
proceed - this was sufficient to fulfil their regulatory obligations. I have discussed below 
whether the risk warnings she was given were sufficient. 
I considered whether the risks of CFDs and warnings given to her were sufficient, and I think 
T212 did enough to warn Miss V of the risks involved in CFD trading. She opened her 
account via the android app where she was required to download this from the android app 
store before being able to sign up for an account. The risk warning below would be 
presented before the account was created and then followed up with numerous further 
warnings upon creating the account. 
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly 
due to leverage. 76% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs 
with this provider. (T212 emphasis) You should consider whether you understand 
how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your 
money.
It is also important to note that Miss V would be expected to read this and then confirm OK 
and she would be unable to create an account without reading and accepting these 
warnings. The KYC document gives clear risk warnings, they would have been given at the account 
opening stage and the numerous trading risk notices would be clearly visible. The additional 
enhanced warning required was also given because of the answers she had given as part of 
the appropriateness assessment. This warning is sufficiently prominent and specifically says 
based on your answer, we are concerned you many not fully understand the risks in trading 
with us and You should remember that you could lose your entire deposit within a short 
period of time, If you would like to trade in Real Money nonetheless, please confirm you 
understand this. 
Miss V would have to have agreed to this in order to have proceeded to open the account, 
so I am satisfied that she was intent on opening the account despite the numerous risk 
warnings given. In addition to this, she agreed to the terms and conditions of the account 
which do highlight the high risk nature of CFD trading. The enhanced warning was enough to 
satisfy T212s regulatory obligations but T212 have in their final response letter, detailed 
several further terms which outline the high risk nature of CFD trading so I wont repeat 
these here. Overall, I am satisfied that she was aware of the risk involved with CFD trading 
and using leverage where she was at risk of losing more than her initial deposit amount. 
Ive also considered whether T212 were put on notice of any underlying issues that would 
impact her decision making such as health, vulnerability, gambling or criminal activity. I 
havent seen any evidence that nor has there been any evidence of communications 
between account opening and this complaint being brought to T212. Given that she would 
have been given the risk warnings, passed the appropriateness test at account opening and 
proceeded with the account suggests she understood the risks involved. With this in mind, it 
would be difficult for me to see why the account wouldnt be appropriate for her or that T212 
should have prevented her from opening the account, so I dont think they needed to do 
anything differently.
I note Miss As concerns regarding incentivising consumers or offering free shares on CFD 
account, but I have seen no evidence of this. In terms of moving funds between the accounts 
freely to encourage CFD trading, again I have seen no evidence of this, particularly in 
Miss Vs case where T212 say her Invest Account shows no funds were ever deposited to 
this and there is no trading activity. I have not seen any evidence of misleading information. 
With regards to one click trading, this is set as a default, but it is optional and T212 confirm 
this can be changed via account settings to ask for confirmation before confirmed.
The account Miss V signed up to is an execution only account and so T212 do not offer 
advice on any of the trading options or trades Miss V choses. They say she alone made the 
decision to trade and so they shouldnt be held responsible for any losses shes incurred 
whilst trading on their platform and I agree with them. There is nothing to suggest T212 had 
any involvement in the Miss Vs trading practices and so I dont think theyve done anything 
wrong here.
I understand the strength of feeling Miss V has particularly with her concerns around T212s 
trading practices and I mean no discourtesy by not individually commenting on these. 
However, I should be clear, my role here is not to tell a business how it should operate nor is 
it to punish a business where I find there has been some wrongdoing, that is the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in where there is evidence of wrongdoing  which I cant say 
there is here. If Miss V continues to have concerns over the way T212 operate, I suggest 
she contacts the FCA to discuss this further. 
I know Miss V will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses shes 
suffered. I have considered all the information thats been provided to me and havent seen anything that would suggest there has been a breach of the terms of the agreement or the 
COBS rules. It then follows that I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold T212 
responsible for the losses she has incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman