DRN-3375216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy to protect their joint mortgage. 
It is not clear how much Mr and Mrs S paid monthly for the policy or what the benefit was.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Aviva says the policy started in October 1996, but Mr and Mrs S say they took the policy out 
in 1991. Mr and Mrs S havent been able to provide anything to show a policy was taken in 
1991. Aviva has been able to provide screenshot evidence that a policy started in 
October 1996, so this is the policy I have considered. 
Aviva had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the policy was optional. And it had to get 
Mr and Mrs Ss consent before it started the PPI policy. Aviva says it would have done this. 
But Mr and Mrs S say they were told they had to have the policy in order to obtain their 
mortgage.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs S have said isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Aviva used around the time Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Aviva gave its customers an option to 
take out PPI. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Aviva has reviewed the sale as though it gave advice and I think this is fair because it puts 
more responsibility on Aviva. It means that as well as giving Mr and Mrs S enough 
information about the policy, Aviva also had to check it was suitable for them. So, Ive 
considered the case on the basis that advice was given and having done so, Ive found the 
policy appears to have been suitable for them. 
I havent been able to see a copy of the relevant terms and conditions as theyre no longer 
available. But based on Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, they were both more 
likely than not eligible for the policy and they dont appear to have been affected by any of 
the terms which might have made it harder for them to claim, such as having unusual 
employment circumstances or pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs S say they were both entitled to sick pay from their employers if they were too 
unwell to work. They also told us they had some savings, life insurance and home insurance. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont think this means that the policy wasnt right for them. The 
policy would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ss employee benefits and potentially 
for a much longer period. And Mr and Mrs S could have made repeat claims subject to a 
requalification period. The PPI would have enabled Mr and Mrs S to use their savings for 
any other financial commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time. And the 
life and home insurance Mr and Mrs S told us about provides a different type of protection to 
PPI, so this would not mean Avivas advice to take PPI was unsuitable.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S at the time it 
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Aviva was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs S.
Its possible Aviva didnt give Mr and Mrs S all of the other information they needed  I dont 
know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the 
cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S and I dont think they lost out 
because of anything Aviva did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman