DRN-4253781
The complaint
Miss T complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Startline Motor 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss T acquired a used car from Startline under a hire purchase agreement. 
The car was sourced by a credit broker, who Ill refer to as Z, and supplied to Miss T by a 
dealership. The car was approximately nine years old and had covered approximately 
93,000 miles when the agreement started. The agreement was for 40 months, and the cash 
price of the car was £5,965.
Within a couple of months of collecting the car, Miss T noticed some faults with it including 
issues with a faulty turbo, some broken front coil springs, the engine management light 
(EML) coming on and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) needing attention. Miss T has said 
she tried to speak to dealership about the faults on several occasions, but each time she 
was promised a call back that never happened. As Miss T needed to use the car, she 
arranged for the DPF to be cleaned at a local garage. The garage also completed a 
diagnostics test on the car at the same time, and several fault codes were identified. Miss T 
had covered around 870 miles in the car at this point. 
Following this, some of the faults remained and were going to cost Miss T a lot to repair. 
Unhappy with the faults with the car, she complained to Startline in December 2022. She felt 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to her in May 2022. Startline 
responded to Miss T and explained that, as she had been in possession of the car for longer 
than six months, it was up to her to prove the faults with the car had been present or 
developing at the point it was supplied to her. 
A month or so later, Miss T provided Startline with an independent report shed paid for. 
Miss T had covered approximately 2,600 miles in the car at the time the independent 
inspection took place. The inspection report confirmed the same diagnostic fault codes had 
been identified during the test, as had been identified by the original diagnostic test in July 
2022. The independent report concluded that it considered that faults identified were present 
or developing at the point the car was supplied to Miss T and were the suppliers 
responsibility. Miss T had stopped using the car at this time, because of the faults with it. 
Startline have said they sent the report to Z, who in turn, it seems, passed it onto the 
dealership. They got in touch with Miss T to ask her to arrange transportation of the car back 
to them, so they could have the opportunity to repair it. Miss T wasnt happy with this and felt 
her rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 had been impacted  she asked to reject the 
car. Startline didnt agree to that.
Miss T brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. He said he was 
satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss T. But he said he 
thought the dealership should have the opportunity to repair the car. He asked Startline to:
Arrange recovery of the car and cover the cost of repairs. He said these should be 
carried out within a reasonable timeframe. 
Refund Miss T £699.40 for additional expenses incurred because of the faults with 
the car. Miss T had needed to take taxi journeys to enable her to continue to work 
and had paid £240 for the independent inspection to take place.
Pay Miss T 8% simple interest on the refunded amounts from the date they were paid 
until the date Startline settled. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ts credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
Miss T didnt accept. She said that, ideally, she still felt that rejection of the car was the most 
appropriate thing to happen. But if that wasnt to happen, she felt she should receive more 
money back. She said she felt she should also receive four months repayments back to 
reflect the time the car hadnt been used, and repayments had continued to be made. Our 
investigator didnt feel this would be reasonable. 
As Miss T didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
5 July 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As the hire purchase agreement entered by Miss T is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Startline are also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and are responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss T entered. 
Because Startline supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The CRA also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods. 
But on the other hand, satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the 
components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on 
various factors. In Miss Ts case, the car was used and had covered approximately 93,000 
miles when she acquired it. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. Having said that, the cars condition should have met the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
In Miss Ts case, Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
her. Ill explain why.
As she brought her concerns to Startlines attention more than six months after shed been 
supplied with the car, it was for Miss T to prove the faults with the car were present or 
developing at the point it was supplied. She has provided an independent report, which I 
think is the most persuasive piece of evidence here. The report confirmed the fault codes detected in the first diagnostic test in July 2022 were still present in January 2023. It also 
confirmed that Miss T had only covered minimal mileage when the first test was completed, 
and it went on to conclude the faults would have been present or developing when the car 
was supplied. More importantly, it appears that Startline have accepted the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point it was acquired by Miss T  the only outstanding issue now 
seems to be how to remedy the current situation. Miss T would, ideally, like to reject the car. 
Initially it seemed that Startline accepted the car could be rejected  they have confirmed 
they would support that option in their submissions to our service. But Startline now feel the 
dealership should have the opportunity to repair the faults, as they havent yet had the 
chance to do this. 
Having considered everything thats been provided, Im minded to decide that rejection of the 
car is the most appropriate and fairest way to resolve the complaint. The CRA explains that 
Miss T can ask Startline to reject the car after the initial 30 days of the agreement if any 
repairs havent been completed in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience 
to her. Im not satisfied this requirement has been complied with, in this case. Miss T has 
provided evidence to suggest the dealership had agreed to undertake the repairs, provided 
Miss T paid for the car to be transported back to them. I accept that the dealerships 
response isnt the responsibility of Startline, but I do think they have had plenty of time in this 
case to step in and try to help Miss T find a reasonable solution. By failing to do so, I cant 
say they havent caused Miss T significant inconvenience. The dealership is located over 50 
miles away from Miss T and, as the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
Im not satisfied she should be expected to cover the cost of getting the car back to them. 
Also its been six months since it was suggested that repairs could take place, yet the car is 
still with Miss T and isnt being used. As Startline are the supplier of the car under this 
agreement, Im satisfied they must take responsibility and accept that Miss T has been 
waiting an unacceptable length of time to have any repairs completed and for this matter to 
be resolved. Because Im satisfied Miss T has been waiting an unacceptable length of time 
for any repairs to happen, and because I dont think its reasonable for her to cover the cost 
of transporting the car back for those repairs, it follows that Im satisfied that she now has the 
right to reject the car. 
Miss T has confirmed that shes made all her monthly repayments and has continued to 
make them since she stopped using the car in December 2022. As she hasnt had use of the 
car since then, Im satisfied Startline should refund all the repayments shes made since 
December 2022. If she has missed any of those payments, Startline shouldnt ask her for 
them. She also paid for an independent report to confirm the car had faults present at the 
time it was supplied to her. I think she should be reimbursed for that cost. 
As Im asking Startline to return the monthly repayments made by Miss T, I dont think its fair 
to also ask them to reimburse her for the costs she incurred when travelling by taxi. The total 
cost of the refund for the monthly repayments is higher than the taxi costs, and I think puts 
Miss T in the fairest position. 
Im also planning to ask Startline to pay Miss T £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes received. Miss T has evidenced her ongoing health problems and has 
explained the impact not having a car has had on her and her ability to transport her children 
to and from school. It has clearly been a challenging few months for Miss T, not just from a 
financial point of view but also health-wise and Im satisfied the problems shes faced with 
the car have added to those challenges.
Startline havent responded. Miss T has. She initially asked for more money to be returned to 
her, as shed paid for a warranty when she acquired the car, and shed continued to make 
her insurance payments for it. The investigator explained why it wasnt felt any more repayments would be awarded, which Miss T has accepted, and shes accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been provided with any additional evidence to lead me to change 
my provisional decision. Startline havent provided anything to persuade me that the faults 
with the car werent present or developing when it was supplied to Miss T. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im satisfied that rejection of the car is now the 
most appropriate way to resolve this complaint. And Ive explained what Startline need to do 
to reimburse Miss T. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss T.
End the agreement with nothing more for Miss T to pay.
Refund Miss Ts deposit of £1,000.
Refund all the monthly repayments Miss T has made to the agreement since she 
stopped using the car in December 2022. If she has missed any of those payments, 
Startline shouldnt request them. 
Pay 8% simple interest on those repayments, from the date payment was made until 
the date of settlement.*
Refund £240 to Miss T for the cost of the independent inspection report. 
Pay Miss T £250 compensation for the inconvenience shes experienced by not 
having use of the car as expected. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ts credit file in relation to this 
agreement. 
*If Startline Motor Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss T how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman