DRN-2023890
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy because she says ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold her a private health 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2018 Miss G took out a private health insurance policy with an insurer Ill refer to as 
Insurer W. She received advice from ActiveQuote before taking out the policy. Miss G says, 
in summary, that ActiveQuote didnt make it clear to her how the discounts on the policy 
worked and how long they would be in place for. 
Miss G says that when the policy renewed the price increased because she only had a 10% 
discount for the second year of the policy. She says that this has left her in a difficult position 
because shes now developed a medical condition which will limit her options to take out 
cover elsewhere. Shes explained that the price of the increased premiums, without the 
discounts, would not have been within her budget. 
In their final response letter ActiveQuote acknowledged that the discounts hadnt been 
explained as clearly as they could have been. They offered to pay Miss G the difference 
between the discounted price and the price Miss G expected to pay for six months. Miss G 
made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Miss Gs complaint. He didnt 
think ActiveQuote had clearly explained the information about the discounts during the sales 
call. He didnt think they needed to pay the difference indefinitely but thought they should 
cover this cost for the second policy year, rather than for six months. And, he explained that 
the fact Miss G had now developed a medical condition wasnt foreseeable and wouldnt be 
something he could say ActiveQuote was responsible for. 
ActiveQuote agreed to pay the difference in the premiums for the 12 month period, which 
amounted to around £184. Miss G pointed out that she didnt expect ActiveQuote to pay the 
difference indefinitely but she was now into the third policy year. She also provided a 
screenshot from Insurer W which provided different information about the policy discounts in 
the third policy year. Active Quote said there was a 5% discount for year three in addition to 
a 20% ongoing discount for being self-employed. 
Our investigator asked ActiveQuote if theyd consider paying the difference in the premiums 
for the third year of the policy but they declined. Our investigator also asked for more 
information about the discount in the third year of the policy but didnt receive a response. So 
I need to make a decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that ActiveQuote had a responsibility to 
ensure that the policy was right for Miss G when they sold it to her. And they were required 
to give her enough information about the policy, to decide whether it was right for her. They 
also needed to present that information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way. 
ActiveQuote accepts that they could have set out more clearly how the policy discounts 
worked. However, Ive not seen evidence that ActiveQuote set out to deliberately lie to 
Miss G or induce her into the contract based on mis-leading information. I think its more 
likely that there was some confusion on ActiveQuotes part about the levels of discount and 
how they applied in the subsequent policy years. This seems most likely to be down to 
human error based on the evidence Ive seen. 
ActiveQuote accepted our investigators findings and agreed to cover Miss Gs financial loss 
for the second year of the policy. Miss G was entitled to a 20% discount each year because 
she was self-employed. In the first policy year she received a 25% discount and in the 
second year a 10% discount. So Active Quote has agreed to compensate Miss G for the 
difference between the premiums for the second policy year which I think is fair.  
Miss G provided evidence to show that she wouldnt have been entitled to any discount in 
her third policy year  the screenshot of her live chat with Insurer W confirms that. 
ActiveQuote told our service there was a 5% discount in the third policy year but havent 
provided any further information in support of their position. The information in the live chat 
explains that this particular discount wouldnt have been open to Miss G at the time she 
joined. Based on the information in the live chat I think its most likely this was a promotional 
offer available at a different time, but not at the point Miss G took out the policy.  
In any event, if I accept Miss Gs evidence on this point, I dont think that this means 
ActiveQuote needs to do anything further to put things right. Based on the evidence Ive 
been provided with Miss G hasnt experienced any financial loss for the third year of the 
policy as she was never entitled to a discount in that policy year. So, even if this had been 
explained more clearly to Miss G, I think its unlikely it would have significantly impacted on 
her decision to take out this policy. Thats because she would receive the 20% ongoing 
discount in addition to the discounts in years one and two. So, I dont think her decision to 
take out the policy would have turned on the lack of discount, or a small discount, in the third 
policy year. 
Ive also taken into account that Miss G was aware of the issue in relation to the discounts 
before renewing her policy for the third year and so it was open to her to check this before 
deciding to renew if it was very important to her. So, overall, Im not persuaded it is fair and 
reasonable for ActiveQuote to pay anything towards the premiums in the third year. 
Its unfortunate that Miss G has developed a medical condition since taking the policy out. 
But this doesnt change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. Developing 
a medical condition is always most likely to impact on the premiums with any insurer and 
Miss G is likely to have faced the same challenges around switching cover regardless of the 
company shed been insured with. 
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss G but Im satisfied that 
ActiveQuote doesnt need to make any further award as I think their offer to cover the 
additional premiums is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Miss G has referred to concerns about the level of commission ActiveQuote obtained. But 
that didnt form part of her original complaint to our service. So, Miss G would need to make 
a complaint about this to ActiveQuote before asking our service to consider a complaint 
about that point. Putting things right
ActiveQuote needs to put things right by covering the additional premiums Miss G paid 
during the second year of the policy. I dont think it needs to do anything further to put things 
right. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Gs complaint about ActiveQuote Limited in part and directing them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 
2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman