DRN-3104283
The complaint
On behalf of the estate of Mr A, Mrs A complains about poor service from Nationwide 
Building Society when trying to close accounts.
 
What happened
Mr A passed away in June 2019. At the time, he had a credit card and savings account with 
Nationwide. Mr A also held a joint account with Mrs A. 
Mrs A, the estates executor, arranged to visit a Nationwide branch to make provisions the 
accounts to be settled. But Mrs A has explained that when she arrived no private meeting 
room was made available so she had to discuss private information in the main branch area. 
Mrs A asked Nationwide to provide statements to show how Mr As credit card balance had 
built up and says they took too long to arrive. Mrs A has also explained that despite being 
advised the credit card balance was owed by the estate of Mr A, payments were debited 
from her account. 
Mrs A complained about the service received in branch and the way Nationwide handled the 
bereavement process. Nationwide responded and said it had arranged for a third party to 
contact the estate in relation to the outstanding credit card debt. Nationwide also arranged 
for the credit card payment it collected to be reversed. A transaction history for Mr As credit 
card was subsequently provided. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They explained we 
dont award compensation in respect of the service provided to a complainants 
representative, which was Mrs As role when acting as executor for the estate of Mr A. The 
investigator thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. 
On her behalf, Mrs As representative asked to appeal and said Nationwide had failed to act 
in line with the service standards set out in guidance it publishes. They also said Nationwide 
and its representatives had given conflicting balances for the credit card. As no agreement 
has been reached, Ive been passed this case to issue the decision on.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator recently split this complaint to remove any issues that related to Mrs As 
accounts. In this case, the complainant is the estate of Mr A. So Im only able to comment on 
the issued that impact the estate of Mr A. 
I think its important to explain that our service can only award compensation in line with the 
rules we operate under. They allow us to award compensation under different considerations 
including distress and inconvenience, pain and suffering and damage to reputation. We can 
also make an award for financial losses caused to a complainant. As Ive already noted, the 
complainant in this case is the estate of Mr A. 
As an estate cant experience distress and inconvenience or pain and suffering in its own 
right, it means options for awarding compensation are limited. I dont doubt that Mrs A found 
her branch visit distressing and that she feels the service provided was poor. But I have to 
focus on the impact of Nationwides actions on the complainant which is the estate of Mr A. 
Again, I accept Mrs A found matters very upsetting but I havent seen anything that indicates 
the estate of Mr As reputation was damaged as a result of the issues shes raised. 
Nationwide says it offered to rebook Mrs As branch visit when no private office was 
available but I can understand why, having already attended, she decided to proceed. That 
meant Mrs A was able to arrange the process of settling the accounts held by Nationwide on 
behalf of the estate of Mr A. 
Mrs A has also complained that credit card statements were amended and labelled as 
deceased which caused further upset. In line with the above, whilst I understand the 
amendment did upset Mrs A, I can only award compensation to the estate of Mr A. In 
addition, we cant tell Nationwide how to operate or how it should refer to a deceased 
customer. 
Mrs As representative has raised concerns that Nationwide and its agents both gave 
differing figures for the outstanding credit card balance. But Nationwide has explained how 
that came about. The differing figures were caused by credit card payments taken after Mr A 
passed away that were subsequently refunded back to Mrs As account. I can see 
Nationwide also sent a transaction history to Mrs A for the credit card. Im satisfied 
Nationwide has given sufficient information to show the credit card history and that the final 
outstanding balance it requested was correct. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A as I can see how concerned she is at the service provided in 
this case. I hope the information above clearly sets out how we can award compensation 
when were considering a complaint referred on behalf of an estate. As Im satisfied 
Nationwide has dealt with the estate of Mr As complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman