DRN-3140065
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt dealt with their 
claims for property and other damage under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr H and Mr M first raised a claim with Admiral in September 2018. Their neighbours 
vehicles had caused damage to their kerb stones. Admiral suggested a claim be made under 
the Family Legal Protection in their policy (provided by a different insurer), When the claim 
was referred to the legal expenses insurers (A) it became apparent that the neighbours had 
in Mr Hs and Mr Ms view been a substantial nuisance, causing damage to not only the kerb 
stones but to the driveway and fences. These issues, which continued into 2019-2020 were 
dealt with by A. However Mr H and Mr M were dissatisfied with the assessment of their 
claims by panel solicitors and referred the matter back to Admiral in April 2020. 
Admiral took this as a formal complaint that it hadnt done enough to help Mr H and Mr M 
with their legal expenses complaint. It rejected that it had done anything wrong in a final 
response letter in June 2020. Mr H and Mr M provided Admiral with further information, 
which it passed onto A. In August 2020 Mr M and Mr H made a formal claim on their home 
insurance in respect of their roof. Admiral appointed an expert to look at the roof. That expert 
concluded in a report to Admiral that the claim wasnt covered as it was due to lack of or 
poor maintenance. Admiral didnt report that conclusion back to Mr H and Mr M, and they 
had to chase for its response, which was provided to them in September 2020.
In September 2020 A contacted Admiral to ask if some of the issues that arose during the 
legal expenses claim could be covered under the home insurance. It appears that Admiral 
didnt respond.
Mr H and Mr M raised a formal complaint about Admirals failure to communicate the claims 
decision to them. They also asked about previous claims they had made. Admiral responded 
that it only had details of the roof claim. It explained that if a further claim was required for 
accidental damage it would require full details of the date, time and cause of the accident. 
Mr H and Mr M provided substantial details of the events concerning the neighbours in 
emails of 4 and 13 December 2020 but Admiral took the view that these related to their legal 
expenses claim and passed the details on to A without acknowledging them.
Admiral investigated Mr H and Mr Ms complaints. It agreed that it should have told them of 
its conclusions regarding the roof claim, but didnt agree that the claim should have been 
covered. It didnt accept that it hadnt passed on their concerns to A. It paid them 
compensation of £150 in respect of not informing them of the claim decision and the delay in 
answering their complaint.
Mr H and Mr M contacted Admiral further in April 2021, providing the details of the events 
again. Admiral replied that if they wanted to make a claim they would have to provide details 
of each claim and the policy section they were claiming under.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Admiral didnt take sufficient action to 
identify the claims that could be made under the home insurance policy. She said that 
Admiral should contact Mr H and Mr M to determine the possible claims and they had to 
decide whether the home insurance would cover them. She also said that Admiral should 
pay further £150 compensation for not progressing Mr H and Mr Ms claims.
Admiral accepted this, but with some misgivings. It pointed out that each claim would have 
its own excess and would be logged on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, 
whether or not it was able to be pursued. It was concerned that this would affect Mr M and 
Mr Hs ability to obtain insurance in the future and could affect premiums charged 
whilst Mr H and Mr M were on cover with Admiral.
It was agreed that Admiral would contact Mr M and talk over the claims before lodging any of 
them.
Mr M and Mr H didnt accept that this was a fair result, and the matter has been passed to 
me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns only Mr M and Mr Hs home insurance with Admiral. Mr M and Mr H 
have made a separate complaint against A, which has been dealt with. I should also advise 
Mr M and Mr H that this office provides an alternative dispute resolution service. Our function 
is to try to resolve issues between businesses and consumers informally. 
I should further explain, as our investigator has pointed out, that Admiral wasnt responsible 
for the legal expenses claim Whilst it was provided as part of the policy, the cover for this is 
separately underwritten by another insurer. I appreciate that when contacted by Mr M about 
it, Admiral did agree to contact A, but that doesnt mean that it took responsibility for the way 
the legal expenses claim was run.
roof claim
Mr H and Mr M made a claim for the damage to their roof in August 2020. When Admirals 
expert came out to look at the roof, Mr M and Mr H explained that they had been unable to 
maintain their roof because the neighbours had blocked access to it. The report said that the 
roof had failed due to wet rot and failure to maintain it. The policy contains an exclusion for 
damage caused gradually, including wear and tear and wet and dry rot. Whilst I appreciate 
that Mr M and Mr H have explained this was due to the problems with the neighbours, that 
doesnt mean that the claim would be covered under their home insurance. I think that 
Admiral applied the exclusion to the policy cover fairly.
Clearly Admiral should have told Mr H and Mr M this as soon as it received the report in 
early August 2020. Instead Mr M only found this out when he did a web chat with Admiral on 
7 September 2020. I accept that this would have caused Mr M and Mr H some distress and 
inconvenience. However given the time period and the fact that Mr M and Mr H admitted 
they hadnt been able to maintain the roof over a long period, I dont think that the time delay 
in their being told the outcome of the claim affected their ability to repair the roof. I think 
Admirals payment of compensation to them in respect of this was reasonable.
other claims
I think that at the time of making the original claim it was reasonable for Admiral to assume Mr H and Mr M needed to make a claim under the legal expenses cover. I say this because 
the events log Mr M has provided clearly details a list of events whereby they said the 
neighbours caused damage to fences, kerbstones, and the recently tarmacked long 
driveway privately owned by Mr H and Mr M. They advised that the neighbours had also 
parked illegally, erected buildings in breach of planning regulations and the title deeds, and 
blocked their access. I think it was reasonable for all those matters to be investigated with a 
view to taking proceedings against the neighbours. As our investigator explained, with home 
insurance every event has the potential to be treated as separate claim with a separate 
excess to be applied to each claim. But legal expenses insurance would cover the series of 
events especially where legal proceedings would be needed to stop the neighbours or 
require them to take certain action.
By April 2020 Mr H and Mr M had become dissatisfied with As handling of their legal 
expenses claim, and they referred the matter back to Admiral. I can understand it if they 
thought that Admiral was taking on responsibility for this claim as it did tell Mr H and Mr M 
that it was liaising with A. But I think it made it clear, particularly in its final response letter of 
8 June 2020, and its letter of 28 July 2020 that although it had been liaising with A, the 
responsibility for dealing with any complaint about the legal expenses side lay with A.
However, from September 2020 Admiral would have been aware that Mr H and Mr M 
wanted to make claims in their home insurance. Mr M raised it himself during a webchat and 
Admiral was contacted by A enquiring about this possibility but it didnt answer As email 
about it in September 2020. I do understand that following liaison between Admiral and A, it 
was agreed, for the legal expenses claim, that A would fund the obtaining of counsels 
opinion. And the aforementioned email wasnt put on Admirals file because it was sent to an 
individual rather than a corporate mailbox.
Admiral offered to log the new claims to be logged in November 2020 and Mr M sent
a copy of the claims he wanted to make. This appears to have been passed straight onto A, 
as were two communications in December 2020. Whilst Mr M included claims against the 
neighbour, I think Admiral should have clarified with Mr M exactly what claims he wished to 
make. There was another opportunity to do this when Mr M contacted Admiral in April 2021 
and Admiral didnt take the appropriate action, instead repeating that Mr M would have to 
provide details of each claim and the policy section they were claiming under. 
So I think from September 2020 it would have been clear to Admiral that Mr H and Mr M 
wanted to make claims on their home insurance. And it failed to clarify with Mr M exactly 
what those claims were. Mr M asserts that because of this his legal expenses claim was 
unsuccessful. Having considered that claim, I think that counsels opinion was that Mr H and 
Mr M had a possible claim for property damage against the neighbours contractors, and 
such a claim should be made against the contractors motor insurance. I dont think the fact 
that no home insurance claim had been made affected the result of the legal expenses 
claim.
I refer to what I said above about this services role in resolving disputes informally. Our 
investigator put forward and Admiral accepted what is, in my view, a reasonable way forward 
 that is by Admiral contacting Mr H and Mr M to decide what claim or claims should be 
logged and considered further. This is with the caveat that if there are a number of individual 
claims they may each have a separate excess and will be logged on the CUE database 
whether or not they are successful. Mr M has mentioned that Admiral previously lumped 
together claims. I think that was because of the difference, as Ive explained, between legal 
expenses and home insurance. Going forward I think it would be reasonable to regard 
claims for different sorts of damage which arose at different times, separately.
Putting things rightAdmiral should arrange to contact Mr H and Mr M to discuss what home insurance claims 
they want to make and as necessary and with their consent, log and consider any such 
claims.
Admiral should pay to Mr H and Mr M a further £150 compensation in respect of the failure 
to engage with them in respect of making other claims. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman