DRN-2825323
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she received poor advice to invest into certain funds within her 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mrs L received this advice from PFP Wealth Planning LLP (PFP) in 2006. PFP was bought 
by Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd (AL) in 2015. Mrs L believes AL is 
liable for compensating her for her investment losses.
 
What happened
Mrs L says she was advised by PFP to transfer her personal pension into a SIPP in 2006. 
PFP subsequently gave her investment advice where to invest her money.  Two funds had 
liquidity issues for many years and Mrs L is now left with one fund, the PSL Assured Fund, 
which she is unable to readily sell and draw a pension income from. Mrs L says the 
investment advice was unsuitable in her circumstances. Also, as she cant sell the PSL 
Assured Fund and close the SIPP, she still has to pay ongoing SIPP charges.
Mrs L says she has lost her original investment of £40,000 into the PSL fund plus nearly 15 
years of investment growth on this sum. She wants AL to sell her PSL Fund for £40,000 or 
buy it from her for this amount.
AL say PFP is responsible for the investment advice Mrs L received. AL never took over the 
liabilities for PFPs actions that happened before the takeover in 2015. And the fees Mrs L is 
paying are charged by the SIPP provider. They recommended her to raise a complaint with 
PFP about the advice and contact the SIPP provider regarding the charges.
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded that AL wasnt 
responsible for the advice Mrs L is now complaining about or for the SIPP charges Mrs L has 
to pay.
Mrs L disagreed and so the complaint was referred for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear the problems Mrs L is now facing stem from the advice she received in 2006 to 
invest in the PSL Assured Fund. She is now stuck with an illiquid fund in her SIPP and 
charges keep accumulating. And I appreciate she considers AL should compensate her for 
her losses as they took over PFP in 2015. 
Mrs L pointed to PFPs accounts statements which say following the disposal of [PFPs] 
trade, assets and liabilities the LLP is in the process of winding down. Statements also 
show the significant sum AL paid PFP on acquisition. Mrs L argues for this money AL didnt 
just buy a trading name (which they didnt continue to use). She is adamant that normal buy-
out procedures will include all liabilities and assets. For an independent financial adviser firm 
this would include existing clients future renewal commission and taking over responsibility 
for their clients and advice they received.
AL provided extracts from their purchase agreement which showed the sale didnt include 
Excluded liabilities which were defined as all debts, obligations and liabilities of the Sellers 
[PFP] incurred or arising as a result of acts or omissions which took place prior to the 
effective date. The effective date here was 1 July 2015.
The above indicates AL didnt take over PFPs liabilities resulting from advice in 2006. I 
would like to say here that it isnt unusual for a business to take over another businesss 
clients and assets, but to exclude liabilities for actions that happened before the takeover. 
This is to avoid having to pay compensation for advice or actions by the seller which were 
outside the buyers control and which their professional indemnity insurer might not be willing 
to cover.
Ive also taken into account that this service has considered several complaints against PFP 
in the past about their actions before 2015. If they considered that their liabilities for their 
actions had been sold to AL, its unlikely they would have responded to the complaints but 
referred them to AL. However, they didnt.
Overall Im satisfied that AL didnt take over PFPs liabilities for advice they gave before 
2015. And so AL arent responsible for Mrs L investing in the PSL Assured Fund and the 
difficulties and losses she is now experiencing as a result of this investment advice.
Lastly, I would like to say that even if I thought AL had taken over PFPs liabilities for advice 
given before 2015, I wouldnt have been able to consider Mrs Ls complaint in any event. 
This is because I could have only considered a complaint against AL that I could have 
ordinarily considered against PFP. And at the time Mrs L was given advice in 2006, PFP 
wasnt a regulated firm. They only became a regulated firm in 2008. So even if liabilities had 
transferred-which I dont think happened here-I could have only considered complaints about 
advice given by PFP after they became regulated.
I have great sympathy for Mrs Ls situation and Im not saying she wasnt given poor advice. 
However, I dont think AL is responsible for this.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman