DRN-4222469
The complaint
Miss T complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions (Profile) 
gave her unsuitable advice to transfer her two Personal Pension (PP) plans held with a 
provider Ill refer to as provider R, to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with a provider 
Ill refer to as provider A.
Miss T is represented in her complaint. But Ill only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Some of the information provided by Miss Ts CMC conflicts with the information provided by 
Profile. Where there is a conflict that Ive not been able to confirm, Ive included both sets of 
information.
Miss T said she was cold-called by Profile in 2014, and offered a pension review. 
Profile said that it hadnt cold-called Miss T. It said Miss T contacted it in November 2017. 
And that it then called her and sent a pre-populated letter of authority for her to authorise it to 
get information about her pensions with provider R. 
Miss T had two With-Profits (WP) PPs with provider R. Shed opened one in 1987 and the 
other in 1989. The total value of both plans at the time of the advice was £13,196.83, 
including the Terminal Bonus (TB). 
Profile carried out an analysis of Miss Ts PP plans with provider R to determine the 
possibility of a switch. And on 4 April 2018, produced a Pension Switch Report. This 
projected the benefits from Miss Ts PP plans with provider R and compared that with the 
projected benefits from a SIPP with provider A, using the value of Miss Ts PPs as of 29 
March 2018.
Profiles analysis showed that the projected combined value of Miss Ts two existing PPs 
was estimated to lie between £13,540 and £25,900 at age 60, depending on the assumed 
growth rate being used for the projections. It also showed that if Miss T were to transfer to a 
SIPP with provider A, the projected value of her SIPP at age 60 was estimated to lie 
between £9,850 and £18,500. Or that an additional annual rate of return of between 2.92% 
and 3.19% would be required each year to age 60 before the SIPP with provider A would 
provide the same expected benefits as the PPs with provider R.
Profile carried out a fact find with Miss T on 6 April 2018. The fact find showed that Miss T 
had suffered from health issues which had led to her stopping work. And noted that she 
wanted to access the benefits from her PPs from age 55.
The fact find also recorded the following information:
Miss Ts personal objectives were just to consider pensions and retirement planning. 
Her personal finances werent discussed. But it was noted that she didnt want to 
make additional contributions to her pension.
She was 49 at the time of the advice and wanted to take her retirement benefits from 
age 55. She had no financial dependants. 
She had a cautious Attitude to Risk (ATR)
The adviser also recorded Miss Ts responses to certain questions, as follows: 
Shed last received financial advice about her pensions around 2010.
Shed last received an annual statement in 2015.
She didnt know how her PPs had performed in recent years, or what funds she was 
invested in, or how risky they were. 
She said it was important to her to have flexibility in how she drew her pension. But 
she thought she make take her fund at age 55. 
She didnt know what her main aims for retirement were. She said it was: too early 
to say. Lives each day as it comes.
She owned her own home. She thought she might downsize in retirement. 
She didnt understand the charges that were deducted from her existing PPs.
It was important to her that she received ongoing advice on how her pension was 
performing and how her money was invested. She felt she would benefit from a 
simple jargon-free annual telephone review of her pensions.
Profile had a telephone conversation with Miss T to discuss its recommendation. It talked 
about risk. And explained that the initial advice charge would be 2.95% of the amount 
transferred, or £388.90. The adviser said: If obviously its not going to be cost effective to 
look to get you that back, over the longer period, then of course weve got to take that into 
consideration in our recommendation. If its not going to be worthwhile, theres no point in 
doing that.
The adviser also discussed TBs with Miss T. She said she didnt know anything about her 
investment funds. The adviser said: Terminal bonus can jump up but it can also jump down 
again. Later on in the call, he also said that a provider: could increase, decrease or can 
take it [the TB] off you completely. And: Those figures are out of your hands. He then went 
on to explain that the TB formed a major part of Miss Ts fund value, saying: The majority of 
the money is in the hands of provider R.
The adviser asked Miss T a number of questions. For example, after explaining what 
drawdown was: Would you want the flexibility of drawdown?. Miss T said she would. The 
adviser then said that Miss Ts PPs with provider R didnt have drawdown as they were older 
plans. 
The adviser then went on to explain WP and unit-linked pensions. He said that with WP 
plans: If they [the pension provider] dont want to pass on the bonus, they dont have to. He 
then went on to say that both Miss Ts plans were in cautious investments so they were right 
for her ATR. But that the performance had been very poor compared to other cautious unit-
linked plans over the same period. He said: 11.36% over 5 years is not very much in the 
scheme of things. Overall, not great performance, even though youre cautious. And a bit 
later: Purely because of what they [the pension provider] pass on. Theyre not legally 
committed to pass on those cash reserves.Later on in the call, the adviser stated: When you get to five years from retirement [in one 
year] you need to start to reduce risk. So WP a bit of an issue. He said that provider R: will 
have 100s of PPs and some of those will have drawdown on them, but that Miss T might 
need advice in order to access them. 
The adviser said he would strongly recommend moving based on the following points:
Just one pension, not two
Miss T would get drawdown
Profile would give her clear annual charges. Shed know exactly what she was 
paying and shed get ongoing advice within that charge.
Shed be put in: a more modern unit-linked pension thats been performing a lot, lot 
better than where you are at the moment. So wed look to try and get a bit extra out 
of it for the next few years then start to de-risk you.
The TB then couldnt be taken off Miss T in the future. The adviser said: They might 
increase it a little bit but they can also turn it down as well. Thats a bit troubling for 
me as an adviser, especially with only six years to go.
The transfer forms from provider R to provider A were completed on 10 April 2018. And 
Profile wrote to confirm to Miss T that it had processed her pension switch to provider A on 
the same date. It also said that Miss T had confirmed that shed received its Terms of 
Business. And that it had sent her its Suitability report and key features document. 
The Suitability report was dated 10 April 2018. Profile said that it had discussed Miss Ts 
understanding of financial services products, and her previous experience with advice shed 
taken and products purchased. And that it had established that she had previous pension 
investment experience, but that she wasnt receiving regular investment advice. It said Miss 
Ts prime objective was to review her existing PPs to assess whether it would be appropriate 
to switch the benefits to a pension that would:
Have clear annual charges.
Lock in her terminal bonus.
Have a low ongoing service fee.
Consolidate her two existing PPs into a new PP.
Provide fund choices which met her current circumstances and were aligned to her 
ATR and capacity for loss.
Provide the ability to take flexible benefits including Drawdown.
Provide ongoing advice including monitoring of funds for performance, quality and 
suitability.
The report also stated that Miss T wanted to maximise the potential retirement income 
available to her. It recorded her ATR as Cautious. And recommended that she transferred to 
a PP with provider A. 
The report stated that £8,864.16 of Miss Ts existing plan value was in respect of the TB. And noted that the TB wasnt: guaranteed and the rates can fluctuate depending on market 
conditions at the time benefits are taken. It can be reduced or suspended at any time. By 
switching benefits, you are effectively locking in this value.
The report listed the following Reasons Why the recommendation had been made:
Low on-going charges. It said the maximum annual management charge (AMC) with 
provider A was 0.45% (from a 0.22% fund charge, and a 0.23% provider A 
management charge). And that when the 0.60% ongoing service fee Profile would 
charge for its ongoing advice service was included, the total annual charge would be 
no more than 1.05%. 
The range of funds available with provider A which were targeted to match Miss Ts 
ATR. It said it had agreed with Miss T that the Vanguard 60% equity fund would best 
suit her needs.
The fund performance. It said that all funds in Profile Portfolios were monitored on an 
ongoing basis for quality and suitability.
The availability for online access. 
The option of taking flexible benefits.
To lock-in the TP with provider A.  
The report also detailed the charges that Miss T would have to pay for the recommendation 
to be implemented. It said that an initial fee of 2.95% of the transferred amount would be 
payable. Based on the current fund value, this would be £388.90. It also said that the 0.6% 
ongoing adviser fee equated to £76.76 based on the current fund value. 
Profile provided Miss T with regular updates about her pension over the following few years. 
It also recommended a change to her investment funds in 2022. And another one six months 
after that. Miss Ts fund had reduced significantly in value between the two updates in 2022. 
On 30 November 2022, Miss T complained to Profile through her CMC. It raised the 
following relevant complaint points:
Miss T shouldnt have been advised to transfer her PPs from provider R to provider 
A. The advice was negligent. Miss T had little time to rebuild her pension if she 
incurred large losses.
Profile didnt assess her investment experience, ATR, capacity for loss, financial 
situation or her investment objectives.
Shed suffered a financial loss due to the unsuitable advice to transfer. 
Shed been induced to transfer her PPs to provider A as Profile had promised 
investment growth at a rate in excess of any growth if the PPs stayed with provider 
R. 
It said that Miss T would like to be restored to the position she would be in had she not 
transferred her pensions.
Profile issued its final response to the complaint on 12 January 2023. It didnt think it had 
provided negligent advice. It repeated the reasons it had recommended the transfer. And made the following points:
Its advisor had discussed Miss Ts ATR and capacity for loss with her. And had also 
carried a risk assessment on 6 April 2018 which looked at her previous involvement 
with investments and the risks she was prepared to take. It said it established that 
her ATR was cautious, which shed agreed with. It had then advised that she should 
invest in a cautious fund in line with her ATR. 
Profile said that it had assessed Miss Ts investment objectives. It said the 6 April 2018 fact 
find had recorded that Miss T wanted an ongoing advice service. And that she didnt 
understand the charges being taken from her pensions. It also said that itd assessed Miss 
Ts financial situation. But that she hadnt wanted to discuss her assets, liabilities, mortgages 
or loans, as shed only wanted a pension review at that stage. It said it had fully explored the 
impact of Miss T losing her pension or it falling in value as part of its capacity for loss 
discussions. 
Profile didnt agree that the advice was responsible for any loss on the value of Miss 
Ts pension. It acknowledged that the value of her pension had fallen that year, but 
felt that was due to stock market conditions, that had affected many savers nearing 
retirement. It said that since it had advised Miss T on her pension it had increased by 
£388. 
Profile said it was concerned that an allegation had been made that Miss T had been 
induced to make the transfer after its adviser had promised that the value of her fund 
would grow at a better rate than her investments with provider R. It said it had never 
guaranteed this. And that it had specifically stated in its Suitability reports of April 
2018, March 2021 and July 2022 that past performance is no guarantee of future 
returns and investment values can go down as well as up.
Miss T was unhappy with this reply. So she brought her complaint to this service. She said 
she felt that Profile had greatly let her down, as shed seen her pension lose money. She 
was now only a year away from drawing her pension benefits and didnt feel they would last 
very long. She said shed felt the policy held no risk, as she couldnt afford any loss under 
her personal circumstances. She also said this was her last savings pot that she needed to 
rely on. She felt her PPs with provider R had been making good money. And that shed been 
advised to put it into a safer place. She said it hadnt been safer.
Miss T wanted to be put back to the position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable 
advice, with 8% annual interest added. And compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She said that she hadnt seen any 
evidence to suggest that a pension switch was in Miss Ts best interest. And that the advice 
to switch to provider A was unsuitable. To put things right, she felt that Miss T should be put 
back to the position she wouldve been in had she stayed with provider R. 
Miss T agreed with our investigator. 
Profile didnt agree with our investigator. It made the following points:
It said that the Pension Switch report had noted: This analysis does not, on its own, 
show whether or not switching your funds is advisable, as that also depends on many 
other factors, such as your attitude to risk and your personal circumstances and 
objectives" all of which we have discussed and assessed with the customer. It also said that it considered other factors for the switch such as Miss Ts requirement to 
have access to flexible retirement benefits, secure the TB on her pensions with provider R 
and to receive an ongoing monitoring service on her pension benefits. 
So it didnt consider that the figures included in the Pension Switch report should be 
considered in isolation. 
It also said that the value of the SIPP with provider A as of 19 June 2023 was 
£13,549.24. But the total transfer value from the provider R plans, less the initial 
adviser charge of £389, was £12,793.
It didnt consider that the initial adviser charge of 2.95% was a significant proportion 
of the total transfer value of £13,182.
It said that Miss Ts immediate goal at the time of the advice was to get a better level 
of service on her PPs with updates on how her pension was performing. Because of 
this goal, shed agreed to Profiles 0.60% ongoing adviser charge. It said the charges 
had been fully explained in the Suitability report and in an illustration. 
It said that the total charges with provider A, even allowing for its annual ongoing 
advice charge of 0.6%, were lower than those with provider R. It said that the total 
charges with provider A were an AMC of 0.23%, and a fund management charge of 
0.22%. When the annual ongoing adviser charge of 0.6%, which Miss T had wanted, 
was also taken into account, the total annual charges with provider A were 1.05% 
each year. But theyd been around 1% each year with provider R, when shed not 
received an ongoing advice service. 
Profile said it had provided focused advice on switching the two provider R plans and 
not investing any new monies at Miss Ts request, as the fact that shed said she had 
no other priorities was confirmed on page 1 of the fact find. 
It also said that although it had recorded during the fact find that Miss T wanted to 
access her pension from age 55, she wouldve had flexibility to take her pension 
benefits in stages after 55 and enter drawdown. So it felt the time horizon for taking 
pension benefits was potentially longer than the period between the advice and age 
55 (six years). Profile also noted that the existing PPs with provider R didnt provide 
flexible retirement options.
It said that Miss Ts ATR and capacity for loss were established during the fact find 
call with the adviser in April 2018. And that the adviser had directly asked Miss T 
about her ATR/capacity for loss. It said Miss T had a low to medium (Cautious) ATR 
and a small/medium capacity for loss could be tolerated. It also said that the 
Suitability report had stated: You are satisfied that the attitude to risk agreed upon is 
within your stated capacity for loss. It acknowledged that this discussion and the 
documenting of it couldve been more detailed. But said that the discussion did take 
place and had been sufficient for a focussed advice recommendation to be made.
Profile said that at the time of advice, the bonus rate with provider R on both 
pensions was 2.68%, while the performance of its recommended investment with 
provider A net of charges was 3.31%.
In summary, Profile felt that Miss T's situation had been assessed sufficiently, including her 
needs and objectives, ATR and capacity for loss, based on the advice being focused on 
switching her two PPs with provider R. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the advice was 
unsuitable.
I agree with our investigator that we would normally take the approach that if a suitable 
investment hasnt grown as much as expected, or has lost value, thats not a sufficient 
reason for a complaint to be upheld. 
However, in this case, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable for Miss T. For 
me to be satisfied that the transfer was suitable, Id need to be persuaded that there was 
reasonable potential for Miss T to be better off after the transfer. And, based on what Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded that this was the case here. Ill explain why.
I first considered the charges Miss T would pay. 
Charges
I acknowledge that the annual charges with provider A were lower than the annual charges 
with provider R  0.45% rather than around 1%. But if Miss T went ahead with the 
recommended transfer, shed also have to pay an initial advice charge of 2.95% of the 
transferred funds. Additionally, shed have to pay an annual charge of 0.6% for the ongoing 
advice service Profile had recommended. 
Overall, Miss Ts annual charges would be slightly increased if she decided to transfer, from 
around 1% to 1.05%. But shed receive an ongoing advice service. But shed also see the 
value of her funds reduce by 2.95% due to the initial fee.
Miss T said she wanted to access her pension benefits at age 55, which was less than six 
years away at the time of the advice. So she only had a short timeframe in which to make up 
the initial advice charge.
I acknowledge that Profile doesnt consider that the 2.95% charge was significant, but I dont 
agree. Miss T said she wanted to access her pension benefits at age 55, less than six years 
from the time of the advice. The advisor noted that her current WP investment was 
appropriate to her ATR, but that it would become less appropriate as she approached her 
selected retirement age, and shed need to de-risk when she was five years away from that. 
Miss T would reach the point that the adviser said de-risking would need to start in less than 
a year from the advice. So this shows that the recommended investment would only be 
suitable for less than a year. But the adviser explicitly didnt tell Miss T this. She would need 
to be confident that her new investments with provider A would make up for more than the 
2.95% initial advice charge in a very short period of time, or shed be worse off. I cant see 
that Profile established that she would be likely to be able to do that. 
I say this because the Pension Switch Report highlighted that the proposed fund wasnt 
likely to perform better than Miss Ts existing investment. And as the adviser had told her 
she would need to de-risk, this would become even less likely over time as she would 
inevitably be advised to move into lower risk, lower expected return investments. I also say this because I agree with the adviser when, after hed noted that the initial advice 
charge would be 2.95% of the transferred fund, he told Miss T: If its not going to be 
worthwhile, theres no point in doing that. From the evidence, the transfer wasnt worth 
doing based on the numbers alone. 
I do agree that the transfer would make Miss Ts annual charges clearer. And that shed 
potentially benefit from the ongoing advice service while paying only a little more overall. But 
Ive not seen enough evidence that the ongoing advice service, costing 0.6% each year, was 
likely to leave Miss T better off. 
I say this because, as I noted earlier, there was very little time for Miss T to invest in riskier 
assets and potentially get enhanced returns compared to her WP investment with provider 
R. The 2018 Suitability report stated that Miss T wanted to maximise the potential retirement 
income available to her. I consider it reasonable for a customer to expect that an ongoing 
advice service would help to ensure that their pension is better in the end than without that 
ongoing advice. But I cant see that there was sufficient scope here for that to be the case.
I next considered the Pension Switch report.
Pension Switch Report
This compared the PPs with provider R with the SIPP with provider A. It was produced to 
assess the likelihood of Miss T being better off after the recommended transfer. 
As I detailed in the background section, Profiles analysis showed that the projected 
combined value of Miss Ts two existing PPs was estimated to be significantly higher if she 
stayed with provider R than if she transferred to provider A. So, looking at this analysis 
alone, I wouldnt have expected Profile to recommend the transfer. 
I acknowledge that Profile felt that the Pension Switch report shouldnt be considered in 
isolation, as it didnt show whether or not the transfer was advisable, as that also depended 
on many other factors. It said these included Miss Ts requirement to have access to flexible 
retirement benefits, secure the TB on her pensions with provider R and to receive an 
ongoing monitoring service on her pension benefits. I agree with this sentiment in principle. 
So Ive also considered whether those reasons were sufficient to have made the transfer 
worthwhile.
Was it likely that Miss T would be better off if she transferred her PPs?
Ive considered all of the documentary evidence provided by all parties, as well as the 
recording of the 2018 advice call. Although Ive mostly detailed what was said in the advice 
call below, Ive also considered the information included in the 2018 Suitability report.  
As noted above, Profile said that Miss T needed to have access to flexible retirement 
benefits, secure the TB on her pensions with provider R and to receive an ongoing 
monitoring service. 
Having listened to the call between Miss T and the adviser, Im not persuaded that she really 
did want all of these things. Instead, I think she agreed with the adviser that they would be 
good after hed explained what they were and then asked her if they would be useful to her. 
Ill explain further.
Im not persuaded by the argument that the transfer would benefit Miss T because it would 
allow her to access her benefits through drawdown. I say this because even if Miss T did 
eventually want to drawdown her pension benefits, she had no legal access to them until she turned 55, so she couldve transferred into a drawdown arrangement later on, when she was 
much closer to age 55, and more certain of her pension needs. She couldve also 
considered transferring into a drawdown arrangement with provider R at this time.
Regarding the locking-in of the TB, the adviser discussed the TB on Miss Ts existing PPs 
with her at the time of the advice. He said that provider R: could increase, decrease or can 
take it [the TB] off you completely. And explained that the majority of Miss Ts funds were 
made up of the TB. He said that provider R could decide not to pass on the bonus. And that 
the performance of the WP fund had been very poor compared to other cautious unit-linked 
plans over the same period. The adviser also used the fact that if Miss T transferred, the TB 
then couldnt be taken off her in the future as a reason for recommending the transfer. 
The 2018 Suitability report stated that £8,864.16 of Miss Ts existing plan value was in 
respect of the TB. And noted that the TB could be: reduced or suspended at any time. The 
report didnt mention that the TB might go up. In general, whether a TB is paid or not, and 
how big it is, depends on how well the fund does over the whole time the investment has 
been in place. But I cant see that Profile explained this to Miss T. 
The adviser also told Miss T that if she transferred shed be in a pension that had been: 
performing a lot, lot better than where you are at the moment. 
I acknowledge Profiles point that its adviser didnt induce Miss T to transfer, as he didnt 
promise that the value of her fund would grow at a better rate than her investments with 
provider R. But I consider that he presented a relatively one-sided view that wouldve 
encouraged Miss T to consider transferring to secure the TB and to access better 
performance.
The Suitability report largely included the same Reasons Why for the recommendation that 
the adviser had stated during the advice call. But it also noted that provider A had a range of 
funds available that would meet Miss Ts needs. However, the adviser had told Miss T on the 
advice call that provider R would also have hundreds of plans that would suit her. It also 
noted that Miss T would get online access with provider R. I can see that this would be 
helpful. But Im not persuaded that the benefit of online access was enough to make the 
transfer worthwhile for Miss T, especially as she would be paying for an ongoing advice 
service, so Profile would be monitoring her pensions performance. 
I also acknowledge that the adviser strongly recommend moving on the basis that Miss T 
could consolidate her two PPs into one. But Im not persuaded that this was a sensible 
reason to move. It made no difference whether Miss T had one pension or two, and the 
adviser shouldve explained this to Miss T, not encouraged her to transfer to consolidate. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the adviser didnt influence Miss Ts decision to transfer. I 
say this because he told her she was in an old-fashioned type of plan which had bonuses 
which were outside of her control, and could be taken away at any point, although it was 
possible they might increase a little bit. And he was troubled about that. He also told her 
that the performance of her WP plans over the last five years had been poor when compared 
to other cautious funds. So, even though I acknowledge that various reports Profile sent 
Miss T over the years stated that investment performance wasnt guaranteed, Im not 
persuaded that Miss T understood that she was being advised to move to a pension that 
could have worse performance that her existing plans. 
In summary, the analysis of the pension switch showed Miss T would likely be better off 
staying where she was. Im not persuaded that the other benefits of transferring that Profile 
has highlighted did enough to mitigate what appeared to be a likely reduction in Miss Ts 
eventual retirement benefits, especially given the not insignificant initial advice charge and the short time left for Miss T to recover the transfer costs before she planned to take her 
retirement benefits. 
Therefore I dont consider it was likely that Miss T would be better off if she transferred her 
PPs to provider A. Therefore Im satisfied that the advice was unsuitable. And I uphold the 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Miss T should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Miss T 
wouldve remained with provider R. 
What must Profile do?
To compensate Miss T fairly, Profile must:
Compare the performance of Miss T's pension with provider A with the notional 
value if it had remained with provider R. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Profile should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Profile should pay into Miss T's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Profile is unable to pay the total amount into Miss T's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt 
a payment of tax to HMRC, so Miss T wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Miss T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Miss T wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Profile deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss T how much has been taken off. Profile should give Miss T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss T asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start To (end Additional date) date) interest
SIPP with 
provider AStill exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from provider RDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the pension with provider A at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Miss T's pension had it remained with the provider R until the end date. 
Profile should request that the provider R calculate this value.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as 
Profile Pensions must pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Profile Financial Solutions Limited trading as Profile Pensions should provide details of its 
calculation to Miss T in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman