DRN-4072541
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited declined their 
claim for cover under their legal expenses insurance policy to defend a claim made against 
them by their neighbours. 
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS). They made a claim to cover their legal costs of defending a claim 
made against them by their neighbours for alleged breaches under data protection 
legislation.
DAS declined the claim on grounds it wasnt covered under the policy. Mr R and Mrs R didnt 
accept their decision. They said DAS had failed to show them where in the policy it said their 
claim was excluded. When they complained, DAS stood by their policy decision.
Mr R and Mrs R brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator said DAS had fairly declined the claim since Mr R and Mrs R didnt have cover 
to defend the legal claim; the policy provided limited cover for the defence of legal claims; 
and policies didnt work on the basis that everything is covered unless specifically excluded. 
Since Mr R and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr R and Mrs Rs situation. And I note the concerns theyve raised 
regarding the LEI policy. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think DAS have treated them 
unfairly.
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. I note DAS let Mr R and Mrs R know straight away their claim wasnt covered 
and responded to their questions in the following weeks. So, Im satisfied they handled it 
promptly.
As a general point, LEI policies dont cover everything that might happen, or a policyholder 
might like to have cover for. Its not unusual for there to be limited cover for defending legal 
claims. We dont consider that to be unfair. And we dont expect insurers to cover claims 
where the policy doesnt respond. 
To decide if DAS acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint, the 
starting point is the terms and conditions of the LEI policy. The policy set out the incidents for 
which LEI was provided in Mr R and Mrs Rs case, subject to the various terms, conditions 
and exclusions it set out. DAS correctly considered the claim under the Legal defence 
section, which said:
We will cover the costs and expenses to defend your legal rights if an event 
arising from your work as an employee [my emphasis] leads to:
You being prosecuted in a court of criminal jurisdiction; or
Civil action being taken against you under:
Discrimination legislation;
Section 13 of the Data Protection Act 1998.
We will defend your legal right if an event leads to your prosecution for an offence 
connected with the use or driving of a motor vehicle [my emphasis].
The policy wording was clear. It provided limited cover where Mr R and Mrs R were 
defending claims  firstly where they were being prosecuted or sued in certain very specific 
circumstances as a result of work theyd done as employees; and secondly where they were 
being prosecuted for motoring offences.
Since the neighbours claim was brought against them in their personal capacities in 
connection with activities they were carrying out on their property, there was simply no cover 
at all under the policy. 
It would only be relevant to look for an exclusion if Mr R and Mrs R were covered in the first 
place and DAS wanted to exclude cover for certain reasons. Thats not the case here. So, I 
wouldnt expect DAS to have pointed to any exclusions when Mr R and Mrs R asked them 
to. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think DAS acted unfairly or declined Mr R and Mrs Rs 
claim unreasonably and I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman