DRN-4322066
The complaint
Mr Q has complained about the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled his claim.
What happened
Mr Q bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by AWP. Mr Q went abroad but 
unfortunately, on his way home, he suffered a heart attack at the airport and needed 
emergency medical treatment in hospital.
Mr Q submitted a claim form to AWP claiming costs for taxis, food and miscellaneous 
expenses. But AWP said not all of these costs were covered under the terms of the policy. 
So Mr Q made a complaint.
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr Q referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that AWP had settled the claim 
correctly, in line with the policy terms and conditions. But it took too long to make payment 
so she recommended £150 compensation for the delay in settlement. 
AWP agreed but Mr Q disagreed and has said that he was delayed for nearly 8 weeks 
through no fault of his own and he thinks it is unreasonable not to be paid reasonable 
expenses.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld in part and AWP should pay £150 
compensation for the delay in settling the claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms under section 3 confirm what is covered as follows:
emergency medical and surgical treatment and hospital chargesreasonable and 
necessary additional accommodation (room only) and travelling expenses home 
[Economy Class], including those of one relative or friend if you have to be 
accompanied home on the advice of the attending medical practitioner]
Under section 4, hospital benefit, the policy says:
This benefit is payable only if the hospital admission has been covered under the 
terms of the Emergency Medical Expenses section. The benefit payment is intended 
to contribute towards miscellaneous expenses that may be incurred whilst you are an 
in-patient [e.g. taxi fares and telephone calls]. This is in addition to any medical 
expenses incurred under the Emergency Medical Expenses section.
AWP paid Mr Qs accommodation costs and medical expenses as well as hospital benefit, 
up to the limit specified in the policy. It settled the claim for Mr Qs accommodation and 
medication costs in December 2022. It settled the medical expenses with the hospital 
directly. 
Mr Q says he was asked to make payment to the hospital directly. AWP said Mr Q was 
admitted to hospital on 2 June and it was notified on 6 June. It said it doesnt have a record 
of Mr Q informing it that he was required to make payment directly to the hospital and so it 
wasnt aware that this had happened. Mr Q was discharged on 8 June, AWP requested 
information from the GP on 10 June, this check was completed on 16 June, cover was 
confirmed on 17 June and a guarantee of payment was sent to the hospital on 18 June. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable length of time for AWP to send the guarantee to the 
hospital.
Mr Q would like AWP to pay for his expenses for the time his stay was extended but there is 
no provision for expenses under the terms of the policy apart from those specified. 
Additionally, there is no evidence that Mr Qs attending medical practitioner advised that he 
needed to be accompanied home so any additional costs of relatives or friends arent 
covered. Mr Q was escorted home by a doctor and the costs of this were paid by AWP. 
Ive reviewed the claim notes and I am satisfied AWP dealt with Mr Qs repatriation in a 
reasonable time and manner. An initial repatriation was organised with a doctor escort but 
had to be aborted as Mr Q was unwell again. Following this, AWP did all it could to arrange 
the quickest repatriation but there was limited doctor availability. It booked the earliest 
available return with doctor availability and there is no evidence of any delays on AWPs part 
in relation to the repatriation.
Based on the above, I am satisfied that AWP have correctly settled the claim in line with the 
terms of the policy. But I agree that the delay in settlement was unreasonable and Mr W had 
to wait to receive reimbursement for five months. So for the delay in settling the claim, I think 
£150 compensation is reasonable as there were no lasting consequences as a result. £150 
recognises the stress and inconvenience of having to wait and chase for settlement after Mr 
Q returned to the UK.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to 
pay Mr Q £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman