DRN-4462130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained about the settlements their property insurer AXA Insurance 
UK Plc has paid for two claims following water leaks at their home.
What happened
In late 2021 there was a leak above Mr and Mrs Ls first-floor bathroom and one under the 
bath. The floor above the bathroom had to be lifted to fix the leak in that area and the 
bathroom ceiling was damaged by the water (claim one). The second leak under the bath 
affected the wall and floor tiling and the ceiling in the kitchen below (claim 2). There was a 
need for skips and the like in respect of all the water damage reinstatement work.
Mr and Mrs L claimed from AXA. It made settlements to them over a period of time based on 
what it said it would have cost it to undertake the necessary repairs. That included 
settlement of £5,000 for the hallway flooring, this being the policy limit for trace and access 
work. Ultimately it appeared to have paid about half of the cost for the water damage in claim 
one and less than a quarter of the costs for claim two, with nothing being paid for skips and 
the like. 
In late 2022, with no more settlement forthcoming from AXA, Mr and Mrs L complained. 
Our Investigator felt AXA had reasonably considered its cost for completing the work, and 
made settlements accordingly. He wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. It was passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt AXAs settlements and reasoning for what it 
had paid were unclear. I asked our Investigator to gather some more detail from it. Having 
received and considered that along with all the other evidence on file, I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. So I issued a provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs L did not reply to my provisional decision. AXA said it had no comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
This is about AXAs claim settlements for water damage (trace and access is not in 
dispute). There are two claims. AXA wasnt prepared, and didnt offer, to complete work for 
either claim. As AXA is aware, if it is not offering to do repairs, it cant reasonably settle 
based on its cost to do the work. Which is so far what it has sought to do. So, in that respect 
alone, AXAs settlements for water damage are unfair and unreasonable. Ive had to think 
then about what AXA should have paid, and will now have to pay.
Claim one (bathroom ceiling) 
Mr and Mrs Ls estimate for work was £2,560 plus VAT. AXA said it would pay £1,000, later 
increased to £1,550 and no excess would be deducted from that (because it would apply the 
excess to the claimed amount). I had our Investigator ask AXA if it had any issues with any 
of the work detailed in the estimate, or if it was just a cost issue. AXA confirmed there was 
no issue with the work, it was just that its price for that work was £1,000 (I assume it has 
overlooked its later increase when answering that question). AXA then has not offered fair 
settlement. It should now pay Mr and Mrs L £510 being the difference between their estimate 
and what AXA paid (£2,560 minus £1,550, £1,010), less the £500 excess. Because I am 
requiring AXA to pay based on the claimed amount, the excess has to be accounted for. 
If Mr and Mrs L show AXA VAT is owing on the work done, it should reimburse their VAT 
cost up to the VAT amount applicable against the sum of £2,060, which is the estimate sum 
less the policy excess of £500. That is because AXAs previous payments didnt account for 
VAT. So VAT on those sums is still owing.
Claim two (bathroom (other than the ceiling) and kitchen ceiling including the fire alarm) 
There is floor and wall tiling in the bathroom. Mr and Mrs Ls estimate for the bathroom is 
mainly for replacing all the tiling. But it says that is because it wasnt possible to replace 
damaged tiles with the same as any remaining undamaged ones. So not all tiling was 
damaged by the leak. It also details removal and refit of the suite to facilitate the retiling. 
Which would come with a likely fairly minimal labour cost. But also that the floorboards are 
being replaced. The total for that work is £10,180, plus VAT, theres no itemised breakdown. 
AXA said its settlement for the bathroom, based on its costs for work, included payment for 
100% of the cost for damaged tiling and 50% of the cost towards undamaged tiles. That 
being in line with this services approach to matching but undamaged items. I had our 
Investigator ask AXA to break that down for me  what area was it covering at 100% and 
what at 50%. Its answer was that it had only scoped and priced for the window wall and tiled 
bath panels. So its settlement for tiling has not been made in line with our approach to 
matching undamaged items. From that it also seems it hasnt accounted at all for the flooring 
in the bathroom. 
Mr and Mrs Ls estimate is not broken down. So Im going to make a decision based on what 
I think is fair. Theres some minor labour work to remove and refit the bathroom suite. I think 
that would reasonably total around £500. Theres the floorboard replacement. I think that 
could be quite costly for materials and labour too. Ill allow £3,000 for that. So that leaves 
£6,680 for all the tiling. As the floorboards need replacing, I think its fair to say all the floor 
tiles needed replacing. And accepting that the tiling on the window wall and around the bath 
was the only area of damage, that means around half of the wall tiles were damaged. I think 
tiling all the walls would probably be a bit more expensive than the floor  its a bigger area 
for one thing. So Ill apply a 70/30 split to the sum £6,680  giving £4,676 for the wall tiling 
and £2,004 for the floor tiling. And half of the sum for the wall tiling is £2,338. So the cost for 
re-tiling the undamaged area of wall tiles is £2,338. AXA, in line with our approach in this 
respect, is only liable for half of that sum. So, from the estimate sum of £10,180, the sum of 
£1,169 can fairly be deducted. Which leaves it liable for the sum of £9,011 (excluding VAT).
Regarding the kitchen, Mr and Mrs Ls estimated cost is £3,885. It included for replacing the 
plasterboard and insulation. Also the fire alarm. I had our Investigator ask AXA why it hadnt 
allowed for costs to replace the plasterboard and insulation. Also if it had considered the fire 
alarm. AXA said the plasterboard was dry when inspected and sound. It said that as the 
plasterboard was dry, it follows the insulation was too. It said the fire alarm was factored into 
its costing.   So from this I take that AXA does not dispute that the fire alarm needed replacing. And 
I accept what it says about plasterboard  it has shown photos that show it was dry upon 
inspection. But Im not persuaded by the logic that if it was dry, so must the insulation be. It 
could hold damp within its centre whilst being dry at the edges. It also doesnt account for 
whether insulation still retains its properties if it has been soaked and then dried. As the 
bathroom floorboards were being replaced, this could have been better assessed by AXA. 
But the insulation could also have been removed via the bathroom flooring. So I dont think it 
would have been necessary to remove any or all of the ceiling plasterboard below to remove 
it. So Im going to make a deduction from Mr and Mrs Ls estimate for the plasterboard. Im 
aware that this type of material can be quite expensive, and fairly labour intensive to fit. 
I think its fair, when thinking that all the kitchen ceiling work would cost £3,885, to allow 
£1,500 of that for the plasterboard. So of the £3,885, AXA is liable for £2,385 (excluding 
VAT). 
Ive considered also what AXA has already paid on this claim. Ive seen the following sums 
on file paid for repairs; £626.45, £325.00 and £1,441.21. They total £2,392.66. In my 
paragraphs above Ive found AXA liable (excluding VAT) for; £9,011 and £2,385, totalling 
£11,396. Taking what AXA has paid already from that, along with the excess of £500, 
leaves: £8,503.34. AXA should now pay this sum. 
If Mr and Mrs L show it VAT is due, it should reimburse their VAT cost up to the VAT amount 
applicable against £10,895 (£11,396, less the £500 excess). Thats because the settlement 
sums AXA paid previously didnt account for VAT. So VAT on those sums is still owing.
Skips and the like
Mr and Mrs Ls estimate  which detailed the work for both claims  also included a cost of 
£1,634.75, plus VAT for items like skips and cleaning works. It seems these costs were 
applied across/for all of the work for the bathroom and kitchen. It wasnt split or broken down 
by area at all. That doesnt seem unreasonable. AXA hasnt objected to this sum. The 
excess on both claims has been accounted for. AXA should pay this sum. If Mr and Mrs L 
show it VAT is due, it should reimburse their VAT cost up to the VAT amount applicable 
against this sum.
Interest
To any sum AXA now pays, it will have to apply interest against the sums Ive said it owes 
Mr and Mrs L from the date they paid each until settlement is made. That also applies to any 
VAT they show was paid by them and is so owing by AXA.
Compensation
My interest award will resolve the financial element of Mr and Mrs L having been out of 
pocket for funds. But I think theres been some distress and inconvenience caused to them 
by all of this too. I can see, for example, from some of the correspondence that AXAs 
settlements, being small and sometimes unclear in nature, have caused some frustration for 
Mr and Mrs L. And I note the loss occurred in late 2021. So this has been on-going and 
unresolved for a long time. I think AXA should pay £500 compensation.
As AXA has accepted my findings, and Mr and Mrs L have not objected to them, Ive no 
need to add to or change them. As such, my provisional findings are now those of this, my 
final decision.
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr and Mrs L:
£510 for the bathroom ceiling.
£8,503.34 for work to reinstate the kitchen ceiling and bathroom (except its ceiling).£1,634.75 for skips, cleaning etc.
The VAT sum paid by Mr and Mrs L for work, up to the VAT sum due against the 
applicable amount AXA was liable for in each claim/area of damage (£2,060, £10,895, 
£1,634). 
An amount equivalent to interest* applied at each sum to be paid to Mr and Mrs L 
(including VAT when they evidence it) from the date they paid their contractor for that 
work, and/or VAT, until settlement is made.
£500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman