DRN-3417984
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in March 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mr B says the installer misled him into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent. He also says the total cost of the system 
was documented as £8,275 to mislead him, as when the interest was added the total cost 
was actually £11,889.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He did not uphold it, because 
he thought the sales documentation had made it clear that the panels would not be self-
funding, and so he did not accept that Mr B had been told that they would be. Mr B did not 
accept that opinion, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures indicating a range of 
possible benefits, of which the highest is £238.69. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not 
buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is £8,275, payable over 
ten years. This document was signed by Mr B immediately below those figures, and so 
I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr B could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £827.50 each year. That is more than three times the highest stated benefit figure for the 
first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr B about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr B makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £11,889. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the amount of 
credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable. Im satisfied that 
this document made it clear that the system would cost him more than the cash price as he 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022. But it is not necessary for him to reply.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman