DRN-2568363
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a loan by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
In July 2019, Mr E took out a loan with NatWest for £11,000. He was due to repay the loan 
over a term of 54 months and the interest rate was 10.39% a year.
Mr E says he was mis-sold the loan by the NatWest representative. He says the 
representative told him his interest rate could be updated if is credit score got better. But he 
later found out that this wasnt right.
Mr E says he only took out this loan on the basis that his interest rate would be updated if his 
credit score improved. He said he had the option of taking out a different loan with a different 
lender that wouldnt have charged him an early repayment charge for ending the loan before 
the term was up. He didnt take this option because of the information he says he was given 
by the NatWest representative in the meeting.
 
NatWest responded to Mr Es complaint. It said it had spoken to the representative who sold 
him the loan. And while she didnt remember Mr E specifically, she believes she would have 
said that if they were able to amend the interest rate on the loan, it would be subject to credit 
scoring. And she wouldnt have promised the interest rate would change as this is based on 
personal circumstances at the time of application. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr E. While he said he couldnt be certain of what 
was said in the meeting, the terms and conditions of the loan dont mention anything about 
the interest rate changing  so he didnt think this was an option available as part of the loan 
terms. Our investigator concluded that he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong 
when it sold the loan.
Mr E didnt agree. He said he remembers what happened in the meeting. And that he 
checked with the representative twice about the interest rate changing. He says he only 
chose to take out a loan with NatWest - and not his other provider - based on this 
information. He feels he has been treated unfairly because he didnt record the conversation 
that took place in the meeting and so he cant prove what was said. 
Because Mr E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
I wasnt at the meeting when the loan was sold, so I dont know exactly what Mr E was told 
about the loan. Ive asked NatWest for any notes relating to the sale, but it doesnt have 
these available. So, I now need to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances.
I dont think its unusual that the NatWest representative doesnt remember exactly what was 
said in the meeting. But I think its reasonable to assume that the representative would have 
had a good understanding of the different products NatWest had available. NatWest has 
said that it didnt offer any loans where the interest rate could change mid-term. So, I dont 
think its likely that Mr E would have been told that this was an option. 
I dont dispute that Mr E has been genuine in his submissions to this service. Its clear that 
he feels very strongly about what he thinks he was told in the meeting. And this is supported 
by him going ahead and agreeing to the terms of the loan. But given that NatWest didnt 
offer a loan where the rate could change, I think its more likely that Mr E has misunderstood 
how the loan worked.
The representative at NatWest says she thinks she would have said it might be able to offer 
him a better rate in the future  but this would be subject to personal circumstances and 
credit checks  and it wouldnt be guaranteed. Essentially, it would be a new loan 
application. Mr E says that he remembers the representative saying that there would be an 
early repayment charge if the loan was repaid early, but I think its likely the reason the 
representative made this clear to Mr E was because of his intention to try and get a better 
rate at a later date.
Im sorry that Mr E feels as though he has been penalised for not having recorded the 
meeting. I hope he can appreciate that its difficult to know what was said without being 
present. Where there are different accounts of what happened, I must make a decision 
based on what seems more plausible in the circumstances. Given what Ive said about 
NatWest not offering a loan of the nature Mr E describes, on balance, I dont think he was 
told his interest rate would change in line with his credit score. 
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement itself, along with the terms and conditions of the 
borrowing. Theres no mention in any part of the agreement that says the interest rate would 
change. At the top of the loan agreement, where it shows the rate is 10.39% per year, next 
to this it says Fixed. I think it ought to have been clear from this information on the 
agreement that the interest rate for the term of the loan wasnt going to change. 
The loan agreement also confirms the total amount repayable including interest  which 
would also suggest that the amount of interest due to be paid had been fixed at one rate. 
Had a flexible interest rate been a feature of the loan, Id have expected it to be included on 
the loan agreement, or in the terms and conditions, but it isnt. It would have been up to Mr E 
to review the documents hed received to check he was happy with the terms of the 
borrowing. And if he wasnt, then he had 14 days to cancel the loan if hed wanted to.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E. But on balance, and 
taking into account all of the information there is available, I cant fairly say that NatWest did 
anything wrong when it sold the loan to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman