DRN-3717510
The complaint
Mr P on behalf of Company B complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He wasnt happy 
that it turned down a claim under his commercial buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P had a commercial building property owners insurance policy with Aviva for a number of 
years (from around 2008 to 2013) before taking out insurance elsewhere. And when he 
submitted a subsidence claim under the policy it turned it down originally in 2009. 
As Mr P remained unhappy Aviva revisited the claim and undertook further investigations in 
2018. It reaffirmed its reasons for turning down the claim and maintained the cause of 
movement was excluded under the policy. 
When Mr P asked Aviva to look into the claim again in 2020 it appointed an expert and 
considered Mr Ps further evidence. Aviva based its response on the expert evidence 
provided and legal opinion but concluded that the additional evidence provided by Mr P was 
hypothetical while its own evidence stemmed from engineering evidence and site 
investigation. And it was satisfied its evidence showed the movement was due to 
compaction and consolidation of made ground and that its decline of the claim was fair. 
Aviva also said in its final response letter that the claim was now statute-barred, and it had 
only revisited the claim to treat Mr P fairly and ensure the accuracy of its original decision. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P but didnt uphold his complaint. Ultimately, he 
was satisfied Aviva had looked into Mr Ps claim in a fair and reasonable way and its decline 
of the claim wasnt unreasonable. 
As Mr P, on behalf of Company B, didnt agree, maintaining the evidence Aviva relied on 
doesnt prove that inadequate foundations are the cause of movement and feel it has relied 
on unsatisfactory evidence, the matter has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I can understand why Mr P believes his claim should be met and can see the significant 
impact the decline of the claim has had. However, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to 
say that Aviva has done anything wrong in turning down the claim. Ill explain why.
Aviva looked again at the previous decline of the claim and provided its final response in 
March 2021. It said again that the claim was declined because the cause of the movement 
was excluded under the policy. It said it carried out a further comprehensive review of the 
claim for when cover was provided. It considered the additional material Mr P provided and 
appointed experts to help in its deliberation. However, Aviva maintained its position that any 
movement damage wasnt insured under the policy.
Aviva referred to its expert report and the conclusions and recommendations saying that the 
2018 ground investigation boreholes show that the property was built on a substantial 
depth of made ground, typically described as very soft, which means that it is compressible 
and has very low bearing capacity. So, it remained of the view the most likely cause of 
movement damaging the block is the compaction and consolidation of made ground. It 
acknowledged Mr Ps hypothesis and the suggestion that some other mechanism of damage 
has caused the damage  especially the suggestion that close by gypsum dissolution feature 
had a critical influence on the block. But Aviva was satisfied, having considered everything 
again and its appointed experts opinion, that its original findings were correct. Suggesting 
the borehole data supported its position that the deep, very soft made ground below the 
block led to movement damage exacerbated by the sloping topography and drainage of 
the site.
 
Given this Aviva maintained its original position in declining the claim was reasonable 
throughout. It referred to the policy which specifically says in relation to subsidence that We 
will not indemnify You in respect of.Damage caused by and highlighted the exclusion 
(e) settlement or movement of made up ground. Aviva highlighted that as the exclusion 
applies, and no insured damage has been shown, then it was declining the claim. And it said 
even though there wasnt a valid claim under the policy that any claim was now statue 
barred in any event. 
Ive considered the evidence Mr P, on behalf of Company B, has provided which is detailed 
and full and was also considered, in the main, by Aviva in its review. Having considered this, 
I can understand why Mr P believes his claim should be met. However, Im not an expert in 
the field and I have to rely on the expert evidence presented in forming my view. And given 
Aviva has relied on expert evidence from people who have attended the site and undertaken 
hands on investigations, while Mr Ps commentary has been provided following desk top 
reviews, I find Avivas position, on balance, more persuasive.  
As our investigator outlined Aviva carried out physical ground and site investigations 
obtaining empiric data from its engineers investigations which it used in forming its view. 
And the experts and legal team Aviva used have highlighted that Mr Ps reports and 
representations are more of a hypothesis - they stem from desk studies and knowledge of 
the local area, including sites nearby. 
Having considered the various reports provided by both sides it is difficult to argue Avivas 
position is unreasonable and there isnt sufficient evidence to support Mr Ps position in this 
regard. Indeed, one of Mr Ps reports states that this interpretation has been done from 
photographs and historical evidence without a site visit by the author - these interpretations 
should be properly mapped out and checked by a competent structural engineer. 
Aviva have maintained, having considered their expert advice, there isnt strong evidence 
that gypsum dissolution feature was the main cause of movement. But maintains there were 
difficulties at the block not long after completion (about 20 years before policy inception) and the problems stem from compaction and consolidation of made ground. So, while I accept 
Mr P has put forward a possible cause I havent seen sufficient evidence, on balance, to say 
that Avivas position, and decline of the claim, isnt fair in the circumstances. 
Given all of this, I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly here in declining the claim. I know Mr P 
feels that Aviva has relied on unsatisfactory evidence. But I think in looking to check and 
reconsider its position again in recent years, despite the fact it has outlined the matter is 
statute-barred, that it has acted in a fair and reasonable way even though it formed the same 
view in declining the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman