DRN-3296139
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt pursue chargeback claims for him in 
relation to payments on his credit card that he says were made as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2019 Mr C made payments on his credit card to two merchants B and T. The payments 
were to invest in online trading. Mr C says he didnt get the service he paid for. He says 
neither B nor T ever traded for him (because they werent regulated to do so) and that it was 
all a scam to take his money. 
In August 2019 Mr C asked Sainsburys Bank to raise a chargeback in relation to a number 
of payments. In summary these were:
Date Amount To / From on Statement
1 April 2019 £1,513.54 debit Benveto
4 April 2019 £641.78 debit S4B
4 April 2019 £1,497.48 debit S4B
4 April 2019 £2,139.25 debit S4B
16 April 2019 £3,016.27 debit 2Pay
24 April 2019 £603.18 credit 2Pay
16 May 2019 £1,510.32 credit Benveto
16 May 2019 £1,921.43 credit 2Pay
21 May 2019 £2,708.12 debit Q*R5
21 May 2019 £2,808.42 debit Q*R6
Sainsburys Bank responded but only in relation to two debit payments from May 2019, not 
the others Mr C had mentioned. They said they were unable to pursue a chargeback as 
there was no evidence to show that what was agreed was not received. Mr C unsuccessfully 
appealed this and later raised a complaint. 
Sainsburys Bank acknowledged they hadnt responded in relation to all the transactions. But 
they said this wouldnt have made a difference to their decision. They offered a total of £75 
compensation for their handling of the matter. Being unhappy with this response, Mr C 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Overall, she 
didnt think Sainsburys Bank had acted unfairly. As he still disagreed, Mr C asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Im sorry to hear Mr C has lost so much money, but my role here is to assess whether 
Sainsburys Bank acted fairly when declining to refund him. I appreciate Mr C says other 
payments made with different creditors have been refunded. But depending on the particular 
card scheme, different rules and considerations will apply. 
Sainsburys Bank are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this 
case is Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be 
good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. 
But a chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
I understand Mr Cs argument that B and T didnt have a real trading platform and so never 
made available his funds. And Mr C has said that the crux of his claim is not that he was the 
victim of a scam, but that he didnt receive the services he paid for. Im sympathetic to his 
situation, but ultimately alleging that there was no real trading account is essentially saying 
that both B and T were operating scams. And this isnt something that the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. Further to this Mastercard 
have confirmed to our service that all that would be required for a merchant to defend a 
chargeback would be evidence showing available funds on the customers account. I think 
this is something the merchants easily would have been able to provide.
So, I dont think Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly when declining to take a chargeback further, 
as I dont think there was an avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of success. 
Ive also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which gives a debtor the 
right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a 
creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods or services. But in this case, none of 
Mr Cs payments went directly to B or T. From his card statements I can see that the 
payments appear to go to other entities which include 2Pay, S4B, Q*R5 and Q*R6. Ive 
researched these and have found no link between any of these and B or T. There is no right 
under the 1974 Act to pursue a like claim against a third party (such as those mentioned 
above) who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. As such, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor creditor supplier chain was unbroken. 
So I cant say Sainsburys Bank ought to have done more under section 75 CCA.
I also dont think there is anything more that Sainsburys Bank ought to have done at the 
time the payments were processed. The payments were made within the existing credit 
limits on Mr Cs account. And there isnt anything so unusual about them which makes me 
think Sainsburys Bank reasonably ought to have had concerns to the point where them 
intervening would be an appropriate response. 
For completeness, I also think the £75 compensation already offered by Sainsburys Bank is 
fair to compensate for the impact of their service failings. Im not persuaded this made a 
difference to the outcome of Mr C disputing the payments. And I have to keep in mind that 
Sainsburys arent responsible for the majority of the distress hes experienced surrounding 
these matters.
Neither Sainsburys Bank nor Mr C responded to my provisional decision. Now both parties 
have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate from the 
outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman