DRN-3220022
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt compensated her sufficiently for the 
distress caused by sending her correspondence addressed to her ex-partner.
What happened
Miss S ended a relationship with a former partner a few years ago. But she continued to 
receive correspondence addressed to him despite informing BoS of the situation. Miss S 
said shed visited a local branch and returned mail as not known at this address. 
But despite assurances by telephone in July 2021 that her address had been removed from 
his bank details she continued to receive mail addressed to him. Miss S told BoS that the 
situation was causing her a great deal of distress. And she doesnt think the compensation 
paid by the bank is enough for the upset shes experienced.
BoS apologised for the mail received by Miss S after shed been advised it would stop. It 
said her address had been fully removed and it would continue to monitor the situation to 
make sure everything was now correct. And BoS increased the compensation for its poor 
service to Miss S to a total of £250.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with BoSs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She was sorry to hear how much distress Miss S had 
been caused. She could see BoS had responded to Miss Ss complaint in July 2021 but 
despite confirming the removal of her address, mail had continued to arrive until October.
Our investigator could see Miss S had been distressed and inconvenienced by the banks 
mistakes. But she felt the total of £250 compensation paid to Miss S for the poor service was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And she wouldnt be asking BoS to do anything 
more. 
Miss S didnt agree with our investigator. Shed been assured on more than one occasion 
that her address had been removed from the banks records. And she didnt think 
compensation of £250 was enough for the distress caused to her. So shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss S is experiencing and the distress caused to her 
by the banks mistakes. She was still receiving correspondence for her ex-partner despite 
returning the letters for a number of years marked as not at this address. And BoS has 
acknowledged it didnt sort things out correctly when Miss S complained in July 2021. 
Miss S was told her address would be removed from the third-party profile. But she then 
received a change of address letter addressed to her ex-partner. 
I understand this wouldve been issued automatically but if Miss S hadnt been told that 
would happen I can appreciate it wouldve caused her additional upset.
When her address was first removed from her ex-partners bank records, BoS said Miss S 
might still receive marketing information for a few months. But she continued to receive 
further correspondence until October 2021, including a bank statement.
After Miss S complained again BoS took further steps to make sure nothing else would be 
sent to her address. And it undertook to monitor the situation for a few months to make sure 
no more letters were sent. 
Miss S is also upset that she was told she could only be sent cheques for the compensation 
offered after each mistake, even though the final payment was then paid into her account. 
And she feels BoS misled her and added to her distress.
I do understand how distressing this situation was for Miss S. It wouldve been upsetting to 
be reminded of her previous relationship when she received mail addressed to her ex-
partner. And despite assurances the matter had been sorted out, she continued to receive 
mail for a few months until BoS make additional changes to its records. 
So I think its right that BoS compensate Miss S for the trouble and upset shes been put 
through. But its important to realise the role of this service isnt to punish organisations for 
their mistakes  we award what we feel is fair and reasonable. 
Miss S says she had to make about six or seven calls to BoS but I cant see that its caused 
her any additional financial loss. And BoS has compensated Miss S with a total of £250 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss S has my sympathy. I can see the unwanted mail has added to her stress and upset 
during a difficult period. But based on everything Ive seen I think the total compensation of 
£250 paid by BoS is fair and reasonable given everything thats happened. Its in line with 
the sort of award this service would normally make in such circumstances. And I wont be 
asking BoS to do anything more.
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. But I hope this shows Ive fully 
investigated the complaint and the reasons behind my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman