DRN-3534689
The complaint
Miss L complains that Advantage Finance Ltd was guilty of irresponsible lending when it
approved a hire purchase agreement with her.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss L applied for a hire purchase facility for a used car. Advantage Finance 
accepted her application and agreed to a four year facility of £6,679. Under the agreement 
Miss L was to pay £243.32 a month at an interest rate of 17.5% (equivalent to an APR of 
36.17%). The total payments over the four year period would be nearly £12,000. 
The account statements provided by Advantage Finance show that, with one exception, Miss 
L made the monthly payments required on time until she complained to Advantage Finance 
and then this service. The one exception was in September 2019, when a direct debit was 
returned, and the payment was made by card a few days later.
In or about October 2021 Miss L complained to Advantage Finance, saying that she did not 
believe that it had carried out the necessary checks to ensure that the hire purchase 
agreement was affordable. She explained that she hadnt known that a lender was supposed 
to check that a borrower could make payments without having to borrow more until a friend, 
having made a complaint, had told her that was the case.
Advantage Finance did not believe that it had done anything wrong. It had, it said, asked 
Miss L about her income and had checked with credit refence agencies before agreeing to 
lend money to her. It was satisfied it had made appropriate checks and that the agreement 
was affordable.
Miss L referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Initially, he indicated that he was likely to uphold the complaint. Advantage 
Finance did not accept that recommendation and made further submissions. Having 
considered them, the investigator changed his mind and issued a fresh assessment  this 
time not recommending that the complaint be upheld. Miss L did not accept that assessment 
and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to a regulated consumer credit agreement (as the hire purchase agreement 
was here), a lender should take appropriate steps to ensure that the borrower can afford to 
repay it. What is appropriate will depend on the circumstances of each case, but the general 
principles are included in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (or CONC) which forms part of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. I have taken CONC into account.
In this case Advantage Finance says that it asked Miss L about her income  which she 
reported as being some £1,400 a month  and that it contacted two credit reference 
agencies. It then took into account her likely expenditure based on figures used by the Office 
for National Statistics and by credit reference agencies. Having done so, it concluded that 
the agreement was likely to be affordable for Miss L.
Advantage Finance noted that Miss L had other debts and that some of those had been 
defaulted. It said however that none of the defaults appeared to be recent. A further default 
had occurred in April 2019, but that had not been recorded on Miss Ls credit file at the time 
of the lending decision. It did not believe however that what it described as historic defaults 
were sufficient reason to decline the lending.
Advantage Finance also noted that Miss Ls total indebtedness before she took out the hire
purchase agreement was over £14,000. By the time she made the complaint, it was about
£2,000 higher. That however included the outstanding balance of some £6,000 under the 
hire purchase agreement. In around 28 months, therefore, the net amount Miss L owed to 
other creditors had reduced by around £4,000. In my view, that does not indicate that the 
hire purchase agreement was unaffordable. 
I note as well that Miss L applied for further motor finance from Advantage Finance in 
October 2021. That application was declined. Miss L complained shortly afterwards about 
the June 2019 application. It seems to me unlikely however that Miss L would have applied 
for further finance if she had been having difficulty making payments on the existing 
arrangement; I might have expected her instead to explain that she was in difficulty. 
I note as well that Advantage Finance based its assessment of the loan application on Miss 
Ls stated employment income of around £1,400 a month. That was supported by a copy pay 
slip, and shows on her bank statements. Advantage Finance says that it does not take into 
account other income and so did not ask Miss L about it. She was however in receipt of a 
further £800 Universal Credit and of funds from an ex-partner. Those are payments which 
Advantage Finance could have included when considering Miss Ls income. The fact that it 
did not meant that, in assessing affordability, it erred if anything on the side of caution. 
As I have indicated, Miss L made one payment late, but otherwise appears to have been 
able to keep up the payments required under the hire purchase agreement. That does not 
necessarily mean that the loan was affordable or that Advantage Finance made appropriate 
checks before agreeing to it. In this case however I believe it is a strong indication of that. It 
also suggests that, even if further checks had been made, the lending decision would have 
been much the same. 
Overall, therefore, I have come to the conclusion that Advantage Finance did make 
appropriate affordability checks in this case and that the hire purchase agreement was 
affordable for Miss L.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Advantage Finance Ltd to take 
any further steps to resolve Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman