DRN-2979881
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs V complain Santander UK Plc mis-sold them two personal loans. As most of 
our dealings have been with Mr V, and to keep things simple, my decision will largely refer 
only to Mr V.
What happened
In 2005 Mr V and his mother, Mrs V, took out a joint personal loan with Santander. In 2008, 
they took a further joint personal loan with Santander. 
Mr V says that in about 2009 he complained to Santander that it had mis-sold the personal 
loans by pressuring him to take them out, but it never responded to his complaint. Mr V says 
he tried to complain about the loans since then, but Santander refused to take his complaint 
and passed him to its collections department. However, in 2020 Mr V again raised a 
complaint with Santander about the loans and it sent him a final response.
In that 2020 final response, Santander said Mr V had complained about the sale of the 
personal loans too late for our service to consider them. It said in November 2010 it had sent 
Mr V a resolution letter to the complaint hed raised around that time, but limited information 
was now available and it no longer held a copy of the letter. But in any case, Santander said 
the loans were sold on a non-advised basis and so couldnt have been mis-sold. 
Mr V contacted our service. He said Santander deliberately delayed things by saying he 
didnt have a valid complaint so there was less evidence of mis-selling. Mr V said when he 
took out the loans, he went to a Santander branch for assistance as he didnt have much 
financial knowledge then, and Santander told him its loan was better than a student loan. 
Mr V says the Santander agent was aggressive so he felt pressured into taking the loans. 
Mr V thinks commission was the driving factor behind the sale of these loans, and they 
werent lent within regulatory guidelines.
Mr V also told us Santander mis-sold the payment protection insurance (PPI) on his 
personal loans, and our service considered Mr Vs PPI mis-sale complaint separately to his 
personal loan mis-sale complaint. 
The investigator looking into Mr Vs personal loans mis-sale ultimately thought Mr V 
complained within the time limits set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, and Santander 
agreed. But after considering that complaint, the investigator didnt uphold it. He said the 
loans werent an advised sale and so it was up to Mr V to decide if he want to take them or 
not. And there wasnt enough evidence to fairly say Santander pressured Mr V into taking 
the loans. And the investigator thought Santander had carried out proportionate checks and 
that the loans had been affordable for Mr V.
Mr V thought our investigator was unfair to not uphold his complaint because of a lack of 
evidence from Santander. Mr V thought hed not been given fair opportunity to provide his 
own evidence, or guidance about what kind of evidence he could provide. 
Santander then provided copies of Mr Vs two personal loan applications and agreements, 
but confirmed it didnt have any other sale documents or evidence it could provide. Our 
investigator remained of the view Mr Vs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr V disagreed with 
our investigator, so his complaint came to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining that Im not considering Mr Vs PPI complaint in this decision, as 
thats being considered separately by our service. And by also explaining that even if Mr Vs 
PPI loans were mis-sold to him, it doesnt necessarily mean the two personal loans were 
mis-sold as well  it would depend on the specific circumstances in each case. So, in this 
decision, Im considering the specific circumstances of the sale of these two loans to Mr V to 
decide if they were mis-sold as Mr V thinks.  
Mr V says the two loan sales happened in branch. I wasnt present at those sales meetings 
so I cant be certain what was discussed. Therefore, I need to rely on the evidence available 
to decide what I think, on the balance of probabilities, did happen. Unfortunately, the time 
that has passed means the evidence is now limited here. But the evidence I do have 
includes Mr Vs testimony and copies of the two personal loan applications and agreements.
Santander says it sold these loans on a non-advised basis, and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Mr V paid Santander for advice. From my knowledge of the industry, its rare that a 
personal loan would be sold on an advised basis. Whilst Santander may have suggested the 
loan to Mr V, it was ultimately up to Mr V to decide to apply for the loans and whether he 
wanted to accept the loans Santander offered him. I acknowledge Mr V says Santander 
pressured him into taking the personal loans. Businesses like Santander will sometimes use 
sales techniques, but Im not persuaded based on Mr Vs testimony alone that he was 
sufficiently pressured that he wasnt able to turn down the loans had he not wanted them. So 
I dont have enough evidence to fairly say Santander pressured Mr V into taking the loans. 
But even if I thought Mr V was pressured into taking the loans, I think the loan agreements 
made it clear Mr V could then cancel them if he wanted to. Thats because both loan 
agreements say, just above where Mr V signed to accept the agreement, 
YOUR RIGHT TO CANCEL Once you have signed this agreement, you will have a short 
time in which you can cancel it. We will send you exact details of how and when you can do 
this. 
Santander says it no longer has any other sales documentation for these loans, so Ive not 
seen what else it told Mr V about his cancellation rights. But based on the cancellation 
wording in the agreements, Im satisfied Santander made it clear Mr V had a short time in 
which he could cancel the agreements. And Ive not seen anything to suggest this was 
something Mr V wanted or tried to do. 
Mr V thinks commission was the driving factor behind the sales of these loans. But even if 
the agent did receive commission from selling them, Ive explained it was for Mr V to decide 
if he wanted to accept the loans on offer. And Santander made it reasonably clear he could 
then cancel them. 
Mr V also thinks this lending wasnt within regulatory guidelines. Broadly speaking, lenders 
are required to check whether lending is affordable for a consumer and carry out 
proportionate checks. From the loan applications, I can see that Santander considered both 
Mr V and Mrs Vs income and expenditure at that time, and the information on the application suggests both loans were affordable at that time. It may be that Mr V had 
financial difficulties later on, but Im not persuaded that was because these two loans were 
unaffordable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman