DRN-3400855
The complaint
Miss A complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans 
irresponsibly provided her with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Miss A with loans as follows:
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
1 July 2020 £5,000 18 Months £358.57 Paid 16/02/2021
2 August 2021 £5,000 36 Months £263.61 Outstanding
Miss A said that Likely Loans provided loans that were unaffordable as she had multiple 
loans and credit cards at the time.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As complaint. She thought that Likely Loans 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Miss As financial situation. But 
shed been able to see Miss As bank statements which showed more information about 
Miss As financial situation at the time she took out the loans and she didnt think that a 
proportionate check wouldve shown it was unfair to lend. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. 
Miss A has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. Having thought about everything, I am not upholding Miss As 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the 
borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the 
loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when 
thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other 
expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments 
and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation. If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss A and thought carefully about the 
following key questions:
- Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss As loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
For both loans, Likely Loans gathered some information from Miss A about her income and 
expenses. It completed income verification and checked Miss As credit file to understand 
her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It also factored into its 
calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Miss As 
position might reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked out by 
the Office for National Statistics. 
When she applied for loan 1, Likely Loans was satisfied that its independent check showed 
that it could rely on Miss As monthly income being at least £1,745. It worked out that Miss A 
needed to spend around £1,258 each month to cover her regular monthly expenditure, 
including what she needed to pay to service her existing credit commitments. When thinking 
about Miss As likely spending, Likely Loans also allowed an extra £50 as a buffer to allow a 
safety margin in the event of variations in her income and expenditure. 
Likely Loans concluded that this meant its loan was affordable for Miss A  and I can see 
that these figures suggested she should have enough surplus cash to pay this loan and still 
have remaining disposable income. 
There were no indications of bankruptcy or any county court judgements on her record. But 
I think the credit report Likely Loans obtained might have shown that Miss A already had a 
credit card account that had defaulted around 8 months or so earlier and she had an 
established record of taking out what appeared to be high cost loans. Overall, I dont think 
Likely Loans saw enough in my view to warrant refusing her loan application. But, keeping 
also in mind the loan term and amount, I think Likely Loans shouldve been alerted to the 
need for more in-depth checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Miss As 
finances before it agreed this loan.   
To my mind, checks should have included a full review of Miss As financial circumstances 
and, in particular, further verification of her expenditure so Likely Loans could ensure that the 
loan repayments were affordable over the term of the loan. But although I dont think the 
checks Likely Loans did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, thats not enough for me to 
be able to uphold Miss As complaint. I also need to be able to say that if Likely Loans had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, these would have shown Likely Loans that 
Miss A couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Miss A has sent me bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Likely Loans 
could have found out about her overall financial situation had it carried out more in-depth 
checks at the time. I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows 
Likely Loans should have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. In the 3 months or 
so running up to Miss A talking out loan 1, I can see she was paying at least a couple of 
loans she had taken out with some other providers of high cost credit. 
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
I havent seen enough to make me think Miss A was over-reliant on using expensive credit 
or that this borrowing was unaffordable for her.  
Her bank account was well managed and maintained in credit, and it looks like she was 
keeping up with the payments owed on her other credit accounts, as well as making inroads 
into some of her older accounts where shed had payment problems in the past. Thinking 
about everything, I am unable to safely conclude that Likely Loans gave Miss A a loan that it 
should have realised was unaffordable for her when it provided loan 1. So this is why Im not 
upholding the complaint about loan 1.
Around 6 months or so after Miss A repaid loan 1, she took out loan 2. Likely Loans 
recorded that Miss A wanted the loan to pay for car purchase/repairs so I think that 
wouldve seemed a plausible reason to borrow £5,000 again.
Likely Loans repeated the same loan application process as before and updated the 
information it relied on when assessing affordability. Likely Loans was satisfied that its 
independent check showed that it could rely on Miss As monthly income being at least 
£1,682. 
After making allowance for all her likely monthly expenditure, plus a £50 safety margin, 
Likely Loans concluded that this meant its loan was affordable for Miss A  and I can see 
that these figures suggested she shouldve had enough surplus cash to pay this loan and 
have remaining disposable income of around £126. 
I dont think there was anything sufficiently concerning in the credit checks Likely Loans 
wouldve seen that ought to have caused it to think the loan wouldnt in reality be affordable. 
And since taking out loan 1, a number of Miss As accounts that had been in default or an 
arrangement to pay were now shown as satisfied, potentially suggesting she was getting on 
top of some of her previous problematic debt. 
But this was another large loan and I think the loan term went beyond what was a 
reasonably foreseeable period to expect Miss As finances to remain stable. So I think that 
Likely Loans shouldve gone further in its checks to ensure it had a more detailed 
understanding of her overall financial situation before agreeing this loan. Ive reviewed 
Miss As bank statements from around the time she took out loan 2. But I still havent seen 
enough to make me think that had it done more in-depth checks, Likely Loans shouldve 
realised the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan term. So I cant fairly 
uphold Miss As complaint about loan 2. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Likely Loans should pay redress for any other 
reason. Miss A hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Likely Loans acted unfairly towards Miss A in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
I expect Likely Loans to treat Miss A positively and sympathetically if she is continuing to 
experience financial difficulty. I would encourage Miss A to provide details of her financial 
situation to Likely Loans if she still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Miss A would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
she gives us a call. I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Miss A but hope setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman