DRN-2887737
The complaint
Mr K complains that Argos Limited applied an incorrect late payment marker to his credit file. 
He would like it removed.
What happened
Mr K applied for a credit card with Argos in September 2019 and was accepted. He 
purchased an item and entered the buy now pay later (BNPL) scheme. He said when the 
time came to pay Argos didnt take the money automatically like his other credit cards. He 
also said it failed to contact him to make the payment; no email, letter or message on his 
phone. Mr K also said he was sure he added a direct debit to his bank account when he got 
the card so it should have been paid but this didnt happen. He said when he finally received 
a letter from Argos it was only to notify him he had late payments. Mr K said other credit 
companies notify the user to remind them to pay. He said this was a buy now pay later and 
he did forget about it. He said had he been notified he would have made the minimum 
payment on time.
In its final response Argos said it had issued a statement to Mr K on 28 June advising him 
that the minimum payment was due by 26 July. It said as this payment wasnt received it 
applied a late payment fee to his account. It said it has an obligation to ensure all information 
reported to credit reference agencies is accurate.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this response so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator concluded that it was unfair of Argos not to set up payment details at the 
beginning or at least when Mr K bought a buy now pay later purchase. She also thought it 
understandable how its easy to forget with the passage of time.
Argos disagreed with our investigators view. It said it had administered the account correctly 
in line with the terms of Mr Ks credit agreement. It said it does not state a direct debit can be 
set up at the point of application, as it does not have this facility. It said a customer can 
contact it at any time after the account is opened to set up either a fixed payment direct debit 
for an amount of their choosing, or a minimum payment direct debit which would collect the 
minimum payment each month. Argos said that statements are issued on a monthly basis 
and customers can enrol for E-Billing, which provides email reminders of when statements 
are ready to view. It went on to say the late payment markers are a true and factual record of 
how the account has been managed, and it is required to record information on a customers 
Credit File as a responsible lender. It asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2021. I said: 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account. It says:
You must make a minimum monthly contractual payment on your account each 
month by the date shown in your statement which will be at least 25 days after the 
date of that statement, unless you only have a BNPL within its Plan Period on your 
account.
Mr K said he didnt receive any statements and the only correspondence was the late 
payment letter. Argos has provided copies of statements for June, July and August 
2020. The statements are addressed to the same address Mr K provided on both his 
credit agreement and his complaint form to this service. So, Im satisfied the 
statements were issued and sent to the correct address. While I accept that Mr K 
may not have received them, I cant hold Argos responsible for this as this would be 
down to the postal service. Mr K suggested that his sister was opening his 
statements as he was at University. He also said as it was a pay later scheme he 
did forget about it. While I can understand how a pay later scheme may go to the 
back of ones mind it remains the case that Mr K was and is responsible for adhering 
to the terms and conditions of his account. And he is also responsible for ensuring 
Argos has his correct postal address so he can receive and open his statements 
himself.
Mr K also said had he been notified he would have paid the minimum payment. The 
June statement is made up of five pages. On page one, in the top left box it says the 
minimum payment is £5.95 and is due by 26 July. There is no direct debit set up but 
underneath this it says, please see HOW TO PAY on the last page of your 
statement. In this same box it says
 you have a Buy Now, Pay Later plan ending soon. Its important you understand 
what this means for you. Please fully read the enclosed letter which details our 
available payment options
In its first paragraph the letter, on page four of the five-page statement, instructs Mr K 
to take action now and sets out his payment options. So, Im satisfied he was 
notified by Argos of payments due, though I accept he may not have received this 
statement as noted above. Mr K said he thought he had a direct debit arrangement 
set up. Argos has said it does not set up direct debits at the application stage as it 
doesnt have that ability. This is Argos process and Im unable to instruct Argos to 
change it, thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But even if Mr K 
had thought his direct debit was set up it was his responsibility to check the payment 
was made.
It its terms and conditions Argos said it applies a charge of £12 if a customer does 
not make the minimum monthly contractual payment on time. So Im satisfied that as 
Mr K did not make the charge on time Argos was within its rights to apply a charge 
and to update Mr Ks credit file accordingly.
Mr K replied to my provisional decision by questioning why, if the late payment fee is £12, he 
was made to pay £50 instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr K will be disappointed, having done so I wont be asking Argos to do 
anything further.
Ive looked at Mr Ks statements. I can see a late payment charge of £12 was applied to his 
account on 28 July. And for the reasons stated in my provisional decision Im satisfied the 
charge was applied correctly. I can see on the August statement Mr K made a payment to 
the account of £50 with his debit card on 5 August. This is recorded as a credit to the 
account and not as a late payment charge.Neither Mr K nor Argos provided any further comments or evidence, so Im satisfied my 
provisional decision still stands.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman