DRN-3109783
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because he says that Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited
(Niche) mis-sold him an income protection policy.
What happened
Mr C is a professional sportsman. In 2017 he injured his right anterior cruciate ligament
(ACL). In April 2018, on the advice of Niche, he took out an income protection policy. At that
time his right ACL injury was an ongoing issue. In February 2019 he made a claim on his
income protection policy for an unrelated left ACL injury.
The claim was declined by the insurer in August 2019. The insurer said Mr C hadnt met the
eligibility criteria for the policy because he hadnt been working continuously for the six
months leading up to the policy being taken out. The insurer said, during that period time,
Mr C hadnt been working due to the ruptured right ACL injury. As the insurer thought Mr C
hadnt been eligible for the policy, they refunded the premiums.
Mr C raised a mis-sale complaint against the broker whod sold him the policy. The broker
said the policy hadnt been mis-sold because Mr C had been working for over 16 hours per
week, as the policy required. They referred to a letter from Mr Cs representative in support
of their position which stated Mr C had been undertaking rehabilitation work for periods well
in excess of 16 hours each week. Unhappy, Mr C made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered a complaint about the claim and the mis-sale. In relation to the
mis-sale she concluded that Mr C had been mis-sold the policy. She recommended Niche
paid Mr C £500 compensation to put things right as she wasnt persuaded that hed have
been able to take out a policy elsewhere, in the circumstances. On receipt of further
evidence, she concluded that Mr C most likely would have been able to take out a different
policy and therefore she recommended Niche paid the value of the claim.
Niche didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They reiterated that
Mr C was eligible for the policy and that the insurer should have paid the claim. They also
referred to a previous decision made by an ombudsman at our service, which they said
further supported their position.
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. I said: 
Niche provided Mr C with advice during the sales process. So, in line with the relevant rules
and industry guidelines, it had a responsibility to ensure that they recommended a policy
which was right for him. And, they also needed to provide him with clear, fair and non-
misleading information to ensure that he could make an informed choice about whether the
policy met his needs. My decision will focus on what I consider to be the central points which
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The eligibility criteria
Ive looked at the statement of demands and needs that Ive been provided with. It doesnt
include details of Mr Cs medical history or set out information about any existing or previous
injuries. I understand that Mr C knew the advisor, who Niche said was aware of Mr Cs
circumstances and the injury, but these details arent captured on the relevant paperwork.
So, I cant fairly conclude that Niche took them into account when recommending the policy
to Mr C.
The policy documents set out the eligibility criteria for the policy. It says:
When we accept your application you must be:
At least 18 and no older than 63 years of age
A resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man; and
In work and have been so continuously for the previous six months.
Work/worked/working is defined in the policy as:
being in employment or self-employed, or, where applicable, on statutory maternity
leave, parental leave, adoption leave or maternity absence.
Employment/employed is defined as:
working for at least 16 hours a week under a contract of employment that does not
have a fixed or implied end date or that is a fixed-term contract. You must be
receiving a salary or wages that can be evidenced via bank account records and/or
HM Revenue and Customs records.
Its not in dispute that Mr C had a ruptured right ACL in the six months before the policy was
taken out. And I accept that this impacted on his role and responsibilities during that time.
For example, as he was injured, he couldnt take part in matches. However, Mr Cs 
representative confirmed that Mr C was recovering from a previous injury and, under the 
terms of his employment contract, was required to undertake rehabilitation work i.e. fitness 
training and physiotherapy for periods well in excess of 16 hours per week.
Thats also consistent with information provided by Mr Cs employer. Ive not seen evidence 
to suggest that Mr Cs contractual hours or salary changed to reflect that he was working 
less than 16 hours per week or that he was, for example, in receipt of sick pay. So, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, he met the relevant definitions of work and employment as set out 
in the policy.
I dont think that the eligibility criteria, as set out in the policy, would have suggested to Niche
that Mr C was ineligible for the policy. For example, the policy doesnt say that the
policyholder had to be free from injury in the six months before taking out the policy. The
policy simply required Mr C to be in employment and working for at least 16 hours per week.
The evidence Ive been provided with suggests that he met that criteria. So, I dont think
Niche mis-sold Mr C a policy for which he was obviously ineligible in the circumstances of
this case.
The exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions
Ive also taken into account the policy exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Existing injuries werent covered unless the policyholder had been symptom free and 
hadnt consulted a doctor or received treatment for at least two years after the start date 
of the policy.
That means Mr C wouldnt have been able to claim for his right ACL injury until he had 
been symptom free and hadnt sought treatment for the relevant period of time. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with I cant fairly conclude that this limitation in cover was 
taken in account, or explained to Mr C, when Niche advised that the policy was suitable 
for his demands and needs.
However, even though I think it is likely there were failings in the advised sales process, I 
still think Mr C had enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. I say that 
because the policy document from the insurer stated that it was important to read and 
understand the document and the policy schedule. The policy is approximately 16 pages 
long and on page 1 it has a section called, Exclusion and Limitations. It says:
We will not pay any benefits under this policy if your inability to work is 
caused directly or indirectly by:
A pre-existing medical condition  unless you have been symptom free and 
have not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the condition for at 
least 24 months after the start date.
Im satisfied that this information, which I think was prominent and transparent in the 
policy terms, would have made it sufficiently clear to Mr C that he wasnt covered for his 
existing right ACL injury. Mr C had 14 days to consider the policy documentation and 
cancel if he wanted for cover for his existing injury and thought the policy wasnt right for 
him.
All of the above suggests to me that its most likely Mr C ought reasonably to have been 
aware that his existing injury, which was ongoing at the time he applied for this policy, 
was excluded from cover.
In any event, if I thought Niche had done something wrong when selling the policy, I 
also need to go on to consider whether Mr C is likely to have acted differently if this 
information had been more clearly highlighted to him or hed been given the right advice 
about the suitability of the policy for him. I dont think he would for the reasons Ill go on 
to explain.
Mr Cs previous cover hadnt been renewed as it had become too expensive. The 
statement of demands and needs records that cost was a factor which was important to 
Mr C  it says that he wanted to obtain a competitive premium.
The overall evidence Ive seen suggests that the injury to the right ACL would likely have 
been excluded by other insurers, or that purchasing cover for it would have made a 
significant difference to the price of the policy given that it was an ongoing condition. So, I 
think its unlikely hed have been able to obtain another policy, which covered his ongoing 
right ACL injury. And, even if Mr C had been able to obtain such a policy, its most likely to 
have attracted a significantly higher premium.
Based on the information available, and the evidence provided in relation to alternative 
policies, I think its unlikely that an exclusion in relation to the right knee would have 
impacted upon Mr Cs decision to take out this policy. Overall, I think its more likely
Mr C knew and accepted that his existing condition was excluded from this policy.
Niche didnt add any further comments. Mr C responded with a number of further points. In 
summary, he said: 
It was of concern that my provisional decision had not addressed that at the time of 
the claim Mr C could do some work (so he wasnt completely unfit to work) 
The documentation was completed by NicheMr C had not had sight of signed copies of the relevant documentation
The insurer was not party to the discussions relating to the suitability of the product  
it was for Niche to make appropriate enquiries as to the suitability of the product for 
Mr C 
Niche failed to undertake an appropriate search of the market for a policy which may 
have been more suitable for a professional sportsperson 
The policy wasnt appropriate to cover Mr Cs needs as it was a general income 
protection policy which only offered cover if he was wholly incapacitated
Mr C wasnt advised about the eligibility criteria for the policy and would have sought 
cover elsewhere had advice been given to him 
There was a lack of attention to detail on the advisors part 
Mr C would have expected his left ACL to be covered. 
Mr C also referred to previous decisions issued by our service in support of his position.
So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further points raised by Mr C. However, theyve not changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Mr C says that the policy was mis-sold because the policy wasnt suitable for a professional 
sportsperson. Hes explained that it did not cover a period of rehabilitation and/or training 
which they would have been required to undertake in line with their contract of insurance. He 
says that the policy Mr C was sold wouldnt cover someone unless they were wholly 
incapacitated by illness, accident or injury. 
I dont agree that this policy was unsuitable for Mr C simply on the basis that it only offered 
cover if Mr C was wholly incapacitated, rather than accounting for periods of rehabilitation or 
training. Having looked again at the sales documentation Mr Cs needs were identified as: 
We agreed that it was important to for you to have sufficient protection to cover loss 
of part of your income in the event of you suffering an accident or sickness (also 
known as disability). 
The additional notes also contain no reference to Mr C being concerned about his income 
changing or decreasing during a period of rehabilitation or training. Based on the available 
evidence, Im not persuaded that this is something that Mr C highlighted to the advisor as 
something he was particularly concerned about or that he said he wanted to protect his 
income in such circumstances. The advisor was entitled to rely on the information Mr C 
provided when making a recommendation. Whilst it may have been beneficial for Mr C to 
have the benefit of some cover during such circumstances, I dont think it means that this 
policy was unsuitable for his demands and needs. The policy still afforded him a significant 
benefit in the event that he was wholly incapacitated as a result of an accident or sickness. 
And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that Niche advised Mr C to take out a policy 
which was suitable for the demands and needs he identified during the sales process.     
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments about the documentation being completed by 
Niche and that there arent signed copies of the documents available. Ive also considered 
that one of the documents incorrectly refers to Mr C as single. But that hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. The statement of demands and needs 
captures a record of what was discussed between Mr C and the advisor. Mr C hasnt 
suggested that this record is inaccurate or wrong. And, as I outlined in my provisional 
decision Mr C had a 14-day cooling off period to review the policy and check it was right for 
him. If he had any concerns, such as the level of cover available during a period of 
rehabilitation, I think he had a reasonable opportunity to raise this with the advisor. The fact 
that he didnt makes me think its most likely that he was happy with the policy he had taken 
out and the cover it offered. 
Mr C says that Niche should have carried out a wider search of the market and there were 
other more suitable policies available for him. I acknowledge there may well have been other 
policies which may have offered Mr C different aspects of cover. But even if I accepted that 
were the case it doesnt follow that I should uphold this complaint. Niche has provided 
evidence that it recommended the policy having taken into account Mr Cs personal 
circumstances. For example, I can see that Niche recommended the policy because it 
covered Mr C for sports. Based on the evidence Ive been provided with I think Niche 
recommended a policy which was suitable for the demands and needs Mr C identified during 
the sales process. So, these points havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I understand that Mr C expected to be covered for the injury to his left knee. As I outlined in 
my provisional decision, I dont think that the eligibility criteria, as set out in the policy, would 
have suggested to Niche that Mr C was ineligible for the policy. For example, the policy 
doesnt say that the policyholder had to be free from injury in the six months before taking 
out the policy. The policy simply required Mr C to be in employment and working for at least 
16 hours per week. The evidence Ive been provided with still suggests that he met that 
criteria. So, I dont think Niche mis-sold Mr C a policy for which he was obviously ineligible. 
Furthermore, as I outlined in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that Mr C was given 
clear, fair and non-misleading information about the exclusion relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. I think the exclusion was prominent and transparent in the policy terms 
and would have made it sufficiently clear to Mr C that he wasnt covered for his existing right 
ACL injury. Mr C had 14 days to consider the policy documentation and cancel if he wanted 
for cover for his existing injury, So, even if there were failings in the sales process I remain 
satisfied that the information Mr C was provided with gave him adequate information to 
decide if the policy was or wasnt right for him. 
Finally, Mr C has referred to previous decisions made by our service. But, every case is 
different, and my decision is made upon the facts of this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman