DRN-1809485
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way Royal and Sun Alliance Plc has handled a claim on 
their buildings insurance policy for subsidence at their property.
What happened
Mr L brings this complaint on behalf of him and his wife, so Ill refer to him throughout.
RSA used a specialist contractor - which Ill refer to as C - to investigate and handle Mr Ls 
claim. C, in turn, employed other contractors to undertake the remedial work. For ease of 
reading when I refer to Cs actions, that includes the actions of these other contractors. 
Mr L owns a property insured by an RSA buildings insurance policy. He says he noticed 
cracks in the extension of his property and reported this to RSA in June 2014. It appointed a 
specialist contractor to handle the claim and investigate. It said the cracks were caused by 
subsidence following the escape of water in a broken drain and it undertook repairs to the 
drain.
Mr L wasnt happy with this and employed his own structural engineers to review the 
contractors findings. This suggested trial pits should be dug to establish more accurately the 
true cause of the subsidence. RSAs contractor rejected these findings. Mr L agreed to 
accept Cs assurances that further investigation wasnt necessary provided C issued him 
with a certificate of structural adequacy on completion of the work.
The contractor undertook remedial work to the affected areas but this took some time and 
wasnt completed until the summer of 2015. C issued the certificate of structural adequacy 
as Mr L had requested.
Mr L says he attempted to sell the property in the summer of 2015 but wasnt able to. He 
says this was because of the recent subsidence issues and he wasnt persuaded the true 
cause of the subsidence had been identified and resolved. So instead he decided to rent the 
property out from November 2015. 
During the first year of the tenancy the tenants in the property reported cracks in the 
extension and Mr L says these were in the same place as before. He continued to monitor 
the cracks and eventually in May 2017 reported the problem to RSA. RSA appointed C again 
to investigate.
C said the cracks were as a result of thermal movement rather than subsidence and said no 
further action was required by RSA. Mr L decided to undertake his own monitoring as he had 
doubts about this conclusion.
By late 2018 he says the cracks had widened and Mr L let RSA know. It appointed C again 
and it agreed trial pits would need to be dug to get to the bottom of the cause of damage. 
But there was a delay in this happening as RSA says there was a lack of availability of 
specialists to undertake the work. 
The work eventually happened in April 2019, and after this investigation C said the cause 
was subsidence. Mr L asked for more another trial pit to be dug to determine with certainty 
the cause of the subsidence but C declined this request. 
Instead, C said the subsidence was caused by root-induced clay shrinkage but Mr L didnt 
agree this finding was conclusive. A tree specialist was appointed and a number of plants 
were identified as the only possible cause. Remedial action was taken to address this and 
ongoing monitoring of the situation was put in place. Mr L remains concerned this course of 
action may not have solved the problem permanently. 
Mr L wasnt happy with how the claim had been handled and he complained to RSA. It 
acknowledged things hadnt been handled as well as they should have been. It said it likely 
misdiagnosed the cause of the original subsidence in 2014 and missed a number of 
opportunities to undertake further investigations sooner. It apologised for the delays and the 
stress this had caused Mr L. It awarded him compensation of £1,500 and refunded the cost 
of Mr Ls independent report. It declined to pay Mr L for the potential decrease in the value of 
his property and for a number of losses he says he incurred as he wasnt able to sell it.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator said she 
thought RSA could have handled the claim much quicker than it did and it should pay Mr L  
8% interest on the cost of his engineers report and £2,000 to reflect the distress the delays 
caused him. But she didnt think RSA needed to pay Mr L anything for his perceived loss in 
the market value of his house or the other losses he said he experienced.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons and will be upholding Mr Ls complaint.
The details of this claim are well known to all involved so I have only provided a summary of 
whats happened above. Mr L has raised a significant number of issues and things he says 
RSA did wrong over the long history of this claim. 
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to determine a complaint quickly and with 
minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the issue and Ill 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make here. While I 
may not comment on everything Mr L has said, I can confirm I have read and considered 
everything thats been submitted by both parties.
RSA investigated the claim and issued a final response in August 2019, so my decision will 
focus on events up to that time. 
I consider theres a number of issues that lie at the heart of this complaint. Ill deal with each 
in turn.
The trouble and upset caused to Mr L
Mr L has provided a detailed explanation of the impact of the delays on him and his wife.It goes without saying that the subsidence Mr Ls property experienced is not RSAs fault. Its 
an unfortunate, but not uncommon, issue many home-owners experience. Just by its nature, 
subsidence causes significant inconvenience and stress for the home-owner.
Insurance claims relating to subsidence often take a significant time to resolve. Sometimes a 
cause is found but after a period of monitoring other causal factors can become apparent 
that werent apparent originally. Monitoring of cracks and remedial work to address the 
subsidence are often necessarily time-consuming and where the time taken was as a result 
of necessary actions, then generally I dont think its fair hold the insurer at fault for delay. 
But I will take a closer look to see if the business caused unnecessary delays which meant 
the claim took longer and caused more stress than it needed to. Ill also be keeping in mind 
RSAs duty to handle claims promptly and fairly, and what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
From the evidence Ive seen, C investigated the subsidence in 2014 and dealt with what 
seemed to be the obvious cause and that was the escape of water from a broken drain. I 
accept Mr Ls engineer said more investigative work should have been undertaken at this 
stage but C went ahead and undertook the remedial work to address what it considered to 
be the cause at that time. 
RSA has acknowledged it could have investigated the cause further than it did and has said 
it likely got the original diagnosis of the cause wrong. Im satisfied it dealt with the problem 
given what it knew at the time and its later acknowledgement that it may have misdiagnosed 
the cause, is an admission with the benefit of hindsight. To all intents and purposes, RSA 
dealt with the claim and undertook the necessary remedial action. Thats what Id expect it to 
do.
I dont think theres enough evidence to show further investigations in 2014 would have 
produced the same result as they did some four years later.  RSA has apologised that it 
didnt conduct an additional investigation earlier and awarded Mr L compensation. Im 
satisfied this is reasonable. 
Mr L says cracks started to reappear in 2016 but it wasnt until 2017  in the region of two 
years after the original, resolved claim - that he reported this to RSA. It has acknowledged C 
missed another opportunity to get things right when Mr L reported these further issues. C 
diagnosed these as having been caused by thermal movement but later in 2018, when the 
cracks had worsened, concluded they had actually been caused by subsidence, with the 
trigger being root-induced clay shrinkage. It undertook some remedial work to treat this 
cause and then arranged for ongoing monitoring to be undertaken. I agree RSA caused 
further delays and additional unnecessary stress. 
Having carefully considered all the information, its clear RSA could have handled individual 
aspects of the various claims quicker too and it caused unnecessary delays when 
undertaking some of the remedial work. For example, RSA took 12 months to appoint a 
contractor to deal with the redecoration and repairs following the subsidence in 2014. 
Its also clear Mr L has put a lot of effort into trying to keep the claim moving and RSA has 
acknowledged C could have done things much better than it did.
The claim started in June 2014 and Mr L moved to a new property in the October 2015 so 
here I need to keep in mind that he was living elsewhere during much of the time the claims 
were ongoing. Because of this I consider the impact on his day to day living arrangements 
was likely to have been less than if the property had still been his main residence. Mr L chose to become a landlord and take on the responsibilities this brings, rather than sell the 
house. I acknowledge he says this has caused him considerable extra work as he regularly 
had to undertake a long journey to and from the property to complete day to day property 
management and to arrange access for RSAs contractors. I can see how it would have 
been stressful the longer the claim went on.
Ive thought carefully about this complaint and Ive taken everything Ive said above into 
account when reaching my decision. And having done so Ive concluded RSA did cause 
Mr L unnecessary stress with the delays it caused and the way it handled his claim. To 
reflect this, Im persuaded £2,000 total compensation fairly reflects the impact of the delays. 
I realise Mr L doesnt think this accurately reflects what hes been through but Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
RSA has already reimbursed Mr L the cost of the specialist report he commissioned, that 
being £476.64. But I also think it should pay Mr L 8% interest on this amount from the day he 
can evidence he paid for the report to the day RSA made the payment to him. This is in 
recognition of him being unfairly out of pocket by this amount.
Mr Ls perceived losses
Mr L says if RSA had undertaken the additional investigation recommended by his engineer 
in 2014 the subsidence problems would have been found and resolved. And this would have 
allowed him to sell his property in 2015 or early 2016.
He says as RSA didnt do this, and he will experience a loss in the value of the house when 
its sold and hell incur additional losses totalling in the region of £95,000, which he says 
RSA should pay him. Mr Ls reached this figure on certain assumptions;
i) His property would have sold
ii) The price he would have obtained
iii) The interest rate he could have invested the sale proceeds for
iv) Differences in Capital Gains Tax liability
v) estimated additional costs of upkeep of the property
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions to see whether cover is provided for the loss 
of value. Under the section entitled General exclusions that apply to the whole policy it 
explains:
The policy does not insure the following:
3. Any fall in the market value as a result of repairs or reinstatement 
So its clear to me the policy doesnt provide cover in the event of a loss of value. 
But I also need to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to hold RSA responsible 
for the losses Mr L says hes incurred.
I consider the losses Mr L says hes incurred to be theoretical. The figure hes reached is 
based on a number of assumptions starting with the premise that the property would have 
sold for a specific figure at a specific time. But Im not persuaded this premise is a 
reasonable assumption to make.
While the property was put on the market in 2015, Mr L decided to withdraw it as he wasnt 
convinced it had been stabilised by the work C had arranged and felt he was unable to sell it 
because of the recent history of subsidence, so he decided to rent it out instead. I understand why this would be the case as buyers might be unhappy about purchasing a 
property that had experienced subsidence at any time, but particularly recently. 
It seems to me more likely than not this would adversely affect his ability to sell the property 
and the sale price thats likely to have been achieved. And indeed I think thats easily 
inferred from what Mr L has told us about the advice he received from an estate agent. So I 
dont think its reasonable to say, were it not for what RSA did, the sale would have 
proceeded the way Mr L theorises as the property would still have a history of recent 
subsidence. And, as Ive said before, RSA isnt responsible for the subsidence.
At this stage its not possible to anticipate with any accuracy what Mr Ls house will 
eventually sell for, if he sells it at all. Equally, I dont consider it more likely than not if the 
original investigations had been more thorough theres any certainty that the outcome would 
have been the same as that reached some four years later.
As Ive said above, RSA accepted it made a number of mistakes throughout the 
investigations and its awarded Mr L compensation in recognition of this, albeit he doesnt 
think this is sufficient. On balance, Im not persuaded by Mr L that it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold RSA responsible for the theoretical losses he says hes incurred.  
The outcome of the ongoing monitoring
As I mentioned above, RSA issued a final response on the complaint in August 2019 and 
this decision focuses on events up to that time. Its clear theres still some dispute about 
RSAs investigation into the cause of the subsidence subsequent to this final response. Mr L 
remains unconvinced that root-induced clay shrinkage is the definite cause of the current 
problems. 
He said, given whats happened previously, hes doubtful RSA is following the right course of 
action. He also says, if thats the case and the subsidence takes longer to resolve, hell incur 
further losses. At the moment, this hasnt actually happened and is just theoretical so I make 
no comment or findings on this.
Any concerns Mr L has in relation to events after August 2019 need to be raised with RSA 
so it has a chance to investigate them and put things right. 
Conclusion
For the reasons Ive explained above, RSA could have handled things much better than it 
did. But I dont think its responsible for everything Mr L says it is.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Royal and Sun Alliance Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs L:
a total of £2,000  being the £1,500 it previously offered (assuming it hasnt paid this 
already) together with an additional £500 - in recognition of the impact of the delays 
and the way it handled the claim
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on £476.64 from the date Mr L paid for his 
engineers report to the date it makes the payment*
Royal and Sun Alliance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs L accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
*  If Royal and Sun Alliance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman