DRN-3770086
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when carrying out an ISA transfer.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H had an ISA with Barclays. Mr H also had an ISA with another business Ill refer to as 
E. On 14 October 2020 E sent Barclays an ISA transfer request in Mr Hs name but didnt 
receive a response. E emailed Barclays for an update on 24 October 2020.
On 13 November 2020 E requested an update from Barclays and was told to submit the 
transfer request via a processing system called Atlus. On 18 November 2020 E explained it 
didnt have access to Atlus and sent the transfer for to Barclays again.
E continued to request updates during December 2020 and on 19 January 2021 Barclays 
asked it to send another copy of the ISA transfer form. The ISA transfer was completed on 
29 January 2021.
Mr H complained and Barclays sent him a final response. Barclays said the transfer delay 
had been caused by lower staffing levels during the pandemic and said it wasnt liable for 
Mr Hs loss. In a follow up response, Barclays said the ISA transfer forms were received 
on 21 December 2020 and the transfer completed on 29 January 2021. Barclays offered
Mr H £100 for the inconvenience caused but said it doesnt compensate customers for 
consequential losses.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint but didnt ask Barclays to take 
further action. Mr H asked to appeal and said his plans to invest the ISA funds saved with 
Barclays had been substantially delayed which had led to a significant loss. As Mr H 
asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says it has no trace of receiving an ISA transfer form from E prior to 
21 December 2020. But Mr H has provided copies of the transfer forms E sent Barclays in 
October 2020 that show it first requested his ISA funds on 11 October 2020. Im satisfied 
the ISA transfer form was sent to Barclays as claimed by E.
In addition, E has sent us a copy of its correspondence with Barclays along with a timeline 
for Mr Hs transfer. I can see E sent regular emails to Barclays chasing updates and 
requests. But it took a long time for Barclays to respond to E. For instance, E sent a 
chaser email to Barclays on 24 October 2020 but Barclays didnt respond for nearly a 
month. And when it did send an email on 19 November 2020 it was to say there was no 
trace of Mr Hs ISA transfer form.
Barclays complaint handling notes show it accepts it had delayed Mr Hs ISA transfer. But 
Barclays notes say the delay was outside of its control as it came about due to the impact 
of the pandemic. Im not persuaded thats fair in this case.
I accept Barclays, like everyone, was impacted by the pandemic. But I note E was actively 
working on Mr Hs behalf during this period, sending ISA transfer forms to Barclays and 
chasing responses when none were received. Im satisfied several sets of ISA transfer forms 
were sent to Barclays. And looking at the details used, I think they were most likely received.
In my view, there were unnecessary delays. Mr H has told us the delays led to a significant 
loss. I appreciate Barclays final response says its not responsible for consequential 
losses. But Im not persuaded thats a fair way to deal with Mr Hs complaint. In my view, 
its unfair for Mr H to lose out as a result of avoidable delays.
ISA transfers normally take around 15 working days, or three weeks, to process. E sent 
the ISA transfer form to Barclays on 14 October 2020 which means he could reasonably 
have expected the transfer to complete by 6 November 2020.
I recently asked Mr H to send us information about his existing ISA arrangements. Mr H 
has forwarded information that shows E received his funds on 29 January 2021 and they 
were invested on his behalf on that date. Im satisfied Mr Hs funds wouldve been used in 
the same way by E if it the transfer had been completed without any delays. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think the fairest way to resolve Mr Hs complaint is for Barclays to 
compensate Mr H for his losses and settle as follows:
-Compensate Mr H for the difference in interest between his existing Barclays ISA 
and what he wouldve received on ISA funds with E between 6 November 2020 
and 29 January 2021
-Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
Mr H has provided a spreadsheet along with screen shots showing the investment funds 
were used by E and invested from 29 January 2021. So Im satisfied the funds were used 
as Mr H has told us. Mr H will need to supply statement evidence produced by E that 
specifically shows the performance of his ISA between 6 November 2020 and 29 January 
2021 to verify what hes told us about his losses.
I invited both parties to respond with any further points or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Barclays responded and confirmed it accepted the 
terms of my provisional decision. 
Mr H responded and sent in further information from E that showed the dates funds were 
invested on his behalf. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr H for the information hes provided setting out his losses. I dont doubt 
what hes told us or that hes suffered losses as a result of delays transferring his ISA  I upheld the complaint on that basis. I want to explain that the statement information noted in 
the provisional decision is so Barclays can fairly verify what hes told us and the figures 
provided. 
Our investigator will forward everything Mr H has provided to Barclays if he accepts this final 
decision. Barclays can then review the information provided and request further evidence 
direct if required. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle as 
follows: 
- Compensate Mr H for the difference in interest between his existing Barclays ISA 
and what he wouldve received on his ISA funds with E between 6 November 2020 
and 29 January 2021
- Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
In line with the provisional decision, the above is subject to the relevant evidence of losses 
being supplied to Barclays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman