DRN-3447736
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt reimbursed the money she lost after she 
fell victim to an investment scam. 
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Miss L has explained that in 2020, she had to close two of her businesses 
due to Covid-19 so was looking for an alternative means on income. She found an 
investment page that took her interest and provided her contact details to be called back on.
She was called within the next few days by a lady claiming to be from an investment firm. 
Unbeknownst to Miss L at the time, this lady was actually a fraudster. Miss L says the lady 
explained their firm invest in a number of different areas, such as commodities, 
cryptocurrency and foreign exchange. Miss L explains investing was described as an 
excellent opportunity to make money and that the companys minimum investment value 
was £500. Miss L was also told shed need to provide copies of her identification to prove 
she was able to work in the UK. Miss L says she wasnt concerned by this, as she follows a 
similar process in business with new employees. Miss L said she was impressed by what the 
lady had told her so made a card payment through the fraudsters website for around £500. 
Miss L was advised shed be partnered with a broker who would be in touch soon. 
From this point onwards Miss L had daily contact with her broker  also part of the scam. 
Miss L was told to download an instant messaging app on her phone to speak to the broker, 
as well as to download software on her computer so that the broker could gain remote 
access. Miss L has explained her broker called her every morning and would discuss how 
her investments were performing. The fraudster would show Miss L what appeared to be a 
trading platform of Miss Ls investments and profits. A week after her initial investment, Miss 
L was led to believe shed made around $150 and was encouraged to invest more in order to 
earn larger profits. Encouraged by her profits so far, Miss L decided to invest a further 
£5,500. Miss L was told a wallet had been created in her name, which she sent the money 
to, and received email correspondence from the wallet provider confirming receipt (the 
fraudster had in fact created this account using the identification Miss L had provided, and 
had full control of the funds once the money was transferred to this account).
When making the initial transfer, Barclays says Miss L wouldve been presented with a 
warning which included advice for Miss L to check the FCA website for warnings on the firm 
and ensure any investments she made were FCA-regulated. It also warned that fraudsters 
may provide an initial investment return to encourage consumers to provide larger amounts 
of money. Miss L says she does not recall seeing this warning. Miss L also received 
automated text messages from Barclays querying this payment transfer, which she 
responded to. However the questions were unrelated to the scam she fell victim to. After 
answering these questions, Barclays released Miss Ls payment.
Again Miss L could see this payment transfer on her trading platform and the broker 
continued to speak to her daily, showing where minor losses were being made, but also 
large profits. The broker also provided Miss L with a document that set out additional 
bonuses she could earn from the investment firm if she invested larger amounts. 
Encouraged by her earnings so far and the potential to earn additional bonuses, ten days 
after her initial transfer Miss L made two further payments on the same day, the first for 
£42,100 and the second for £15,500. As profits continued to increase after these payments 
were made, Miss L transferred another £50,000 across three days later.
Later that week Miss L received communication from her broker, stating that unfortunately 
some of her investments had turned against her and her profits had dropped by around 
$100,000. Miss L was told the investment company would be willing to buy these losses 
from her if she paid £23,700. Miss L reasoned that it would be better to lose this amount 
than $100,000 so paid this amount as requested.
Miss L later tried to make an account withdrawal and was told by the broker that she would 
need to pay an insurance fee. Miss L became suspicious about this and the related 
paperwork she received. She contacted Action Fraud and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) at which point she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Barclays to 
make a claim.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
Barclays considers Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with 
a legitimate investment firm and therefore making legitimate transfers. However it 
acknowledges it couldve done more to protect Miss L from financial harm, so provided Miss 
L with a refund of 50% of payments made. The initial card payment Miss L made was also 
fully refunded and Barclays awarded a further £300 compensation for delays in dealing with 
Miss Ls claim. Miss L feels she should be refunded in full and so has referred her complaint 
to us. 
I am also mindful that when Miss L made these payments, Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and thought Barclays ought to have done more. He 
considered Miss L did have a reasonable basis for believing the investment firm was 
legitimate until making the final payment of £23,700, at which point he considered Miss L 
shouldve had concerns and conducted further checks before proceeding. He therefore 
recommended Barclays should fully refund all fraudulent payments except the last. The 
investigator considered a 50% liability split was fair for the final payment to acknowledge that 
both sides couldve done more at this point. As Barclays disagreed with the investigators 
view, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have fully refunded the money 
Miss L lost on all payments other than the last of £23,700. I am not persuaded any of 
the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case 
for all other payments. 
Barclays should in any event have intervened when Miss L made the first transfer, as 
the payment was unusual and out of character for Miss L and had it done so, I am 
satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss L 
lost on payment transfers one to four.
The money was taken from Miss Ls current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Barclays had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Barclays should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year from the date Miss L made the payment transfers to the date of payment.
I have considered Barclays representations about whether Miss L had a reasonable basis 
for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a different 
view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Miss L failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that Barclays has not shown that Miss L lacked a reasonable basis of belief. 
Barclays doesnt consider Miss L completed enough due diligence, or conducted relevant 
checks to ensure the investment firm was genuine. Barclays has said that, considering the 
value of funds she was investing, further independent research should have been completed 
before transferring the funds. Barclays also considers that as Miss L contacted the FCA to 
verify this was a scam, she couldve done this sooner. I appreciate there were other checks 
here Miss L couldve conducted, but Ive also considered that the hook to this scam was the 
early profits Miss L thought shed made and how this impacted her trust in the broker. She 
has said she initially invested £500 as that was an amount she was willing to risk, should the 
investment not go as planned. It was the success following this initial investment that 
reassured Miss L to invest further. 
I appreciate Miss L never successfully withdrew any profits  but shed also not attempted to 
until after all payments were made. I think its important to note here that the methods 
fraudsters use to convince consumers that they are making profits are highly sophisticated  
the fraudster in this case used a demonstration version of a genuine trading platform to lead 
Miss L to believe that she could physically see her investments making money  and Miss L 
was receiving confirmation from a genuine wallet provider that her deposits were being 
received to her account. I can therefore understand why Miss L considered there to be 
convincing evidence that her money was being successfully deposited, then applied to an 
active trading account. Ive also seen correspondence between Miss L and the fraudster that 
shows the daily phone calls that were taking place  I think the fraudster has gone to 
significant efforts to build a rapport with Miss L and build trust with this regular contact. 
Miss L has acknowledged she is inexperienced in investing and hadnt heard of the FCA  
only being directed there after she had raised concerns about this being a scam. Ive 
considered Barclays online warning which directs Miss L to check the FCA website for 
warnings and regulation. Miss L says she didnt see this, or at least doesnt recall seeing it. 
In any event, when the scam began, there were no warnings on the FCA register about this 
firm. Had Miss L checked, she wouldve obtained no results, but Ive also considered that 
Miss L believed she was investing in some products, such as cryptocurrency, that werent regulated. Even if Miss L had looked into this further, its questionable whether there 
wouldve been sufficient red flags to stop her proceeding with the transfers. Ive also thought 
about the part of the warning that covers fraudsters providing returns  however this is 
included towards the bottom of the warning, among other parts that are less relevant to Miss 
Ls circumstances, which I think could make it easier to overlook, particularly as by the time 
Miss L made this first transfer, shed already made a payment by card to the scammer so 
was arguably less concerned by this point about the possibility this was a scam.
Overall, I think the level of sophistication of this scam, constant communication with the 
fraudster and the perception of being able to see profits being made led Miss L to having a 
reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate investment firm for all but 
the final payment she made.
When making the final payment, I think the fraudsters offer of buying her losses seemed 
too good to be true, and Ive not seen any evidence that Miss L questioned how the fraudster 
wouldnt be out of pocket from doing so. I think this offer from the fraudster shouldve raised 
concerns with Miss L and at this point she ought to have asked more questions before 
proceeding. In not doing so, I dont think Miss L had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment she was making at this point was legitimate. I therefore think Barclays offer to 
refund 50% of this payment is fair.
Ive considered the £300 Barclays awarded Miss L for the delays in investigating her claim. I 
appreciate this wouldve been a stressful time for Miss L, and delays by Barclays no doubt 
further contributed to this worry. I think £300 is a fair reflection of the additional stress Miss L 
experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Refund the remaining 50% of bank transfers one to four, totaling £56,550
Pay 8% simple interest on these payments, from the date each payment was made 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman