DRN-2482674
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC erroneously blocked her current and savings accounts for two
months. She says this caused her to sustain financial losses, as well as considerable
distress and inconvenience. She wants HSBC to apologise and to pay her compensation to
put things right.
Ms Bs savings account was in the joint names of her and her mother, Mrs S. But because
the events only affected Ms B, I will only refer to Ms B in this decision.
What happened
On 12 December 2019, HSBC blocked Ms Bs current and savings accounts. They did so,
having received a court order requiring HSBC to block access to some of Ms Bs funds.
However, the court order only required HSBC to block £350,000 of the £665,000 in Ms Bs
savings account. And it didnt require HSBC to block Ms Bs current account, which had a
balance of around £8,000.
Ms B contacted the applicant of the court order and arranged for their barrister to confirm
the correct position with HSBC. HSBC disagreed with the barristers interpretation of the
court order though, so the block remained.
HSBC later changed its position and acknowledged it had made a mistake when it blocked
Ms Bs accounts. It said it didnt have the facility to block part of an account balance, but
agreed to allow Ms B to withdraw the £315,000 in her savings account that shouldnt have
been blocked. And it unblocked her current account. The incorrect blocks were lifted on 4
February 2020, 54 days after they were imposed. But HSBC didnt tell Ms B it had lifted the
block  she found out on 13 March 2020, when she checked her account. HSBC apologised
and offered Ms B £350 in compensation.
Ms B rejected HSBCs offer. She said she had to withdraw from a house purchase because
of HSBCs error, and was left homeless and had to move her and her three children in with
her parents. She says it also ruined Christmas for her family as all of her funds were blocked
throughout most of December. She says she incurred financial losses of around £2,300
while the block was in place, and she wanted HSBC to pay her compensation in the region
of £50,000 owing to the severe distress she was put under as a result of the block.
HSBC increased its offer to £1,000, which our investigator felt was fair. He said the losses
Ms B was claiming werent caused by HSBCs mistake. And that the offer of £1,000 to
compensate for distress and inconvenience was in line with what he would expect to see in
circumstances like these.
Ms B rejected our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter
afresh.
Ms Bs current account is actually in joint names, along with Mrs S. Mrs S has consented to
our Service looking into this complaint. But I wont refer to her in this decision as she is an
account holder in name only and had no involvement with the subject matter of this
complaint. 
On 3 November 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said:
Having reviewed Ms Bs complaint, I have provisionally decided to uphold it for the
following reasons.
HSBC has accepted it shouldnt have blocked Ms Bs accounts in the manner it did, so all
thats left for me to consider is what it should do to puts things right for Ms B. While I dont
consider it would be fair to ask HSBC to pay Ms B £50,000, I do think it should pay more
than it has offered to. With that being said, I will first explain why I wont be asking HSBC to
pay certain costs Ms B has claimed.
Ms B says the block caused her to lose:
£250, being a non-refundable deposit on a new build property;
£200 in wasted conveyancing fees;
£750 in additional storage fees;
£100 a week in petrol costs; and
£250 in legal advice relating to the account block.
Ms B also says her mobile phone got cut off, her car lease was terminated and her children
were expelled from private school, all because her account was frozen with the money she
would have used to pay for those items.
Three days before HSBC froze Ms Bs account, shed committed to buy a property for circa
£600,000 for cash. Because HSBC acted correctly in blocking £350,000 of Ms Bs money,
Ms B wouldnt have been able to complete the purchase on her own as shed planned, even
if it had not blocked the remaining funds in her account.
Ms B says that, if she had access to the £315,000 in her account that shouldnt have been
blocked, she would either have borrowed the balance of the completion funds from her
parents, or she would have transferred her deposit to a lower value property of around
£300,000, with the same developer.
Ive asked Ms B for evidence to show her parents would have been able to loan her the
money and would have actually done so. And to show there was another property available
at the price Ms B says, with the developer she says. But Ms B hasnt sent me any such
evidence.
That being the case, I cant reasonably say Ms B would have been able to follow either of
these courses of action, but for HSBCs error. So I cant reasonably say the deposit or
wasted conveyancing fees were HSBCs fault, because it seems they would have been lost
regardless of whether or not HSBC blocked the correct amount.
And while I understand why Ms B would seek legal advice in such a situation, Im not
persuaded doing so was necessary solely in relation to HSBCs error. Our service is a free
alternative to the courts so Ms B could have come straight to us. And Ms B tells me her
solicitors advised her to do just that.
However, I am persuaded that Ms B would have bought an alternative property instead of
moving in with her parents, had HSBC not blocked the £315,000. Ms B has three children,
all of school age, all of whom she had to transport to schools located a significant distance
from her parents house. I can imagine living with her parents wouldve been a last resort.
Ms B moved into rented accommodation straight after she obtained her funds from HSBC,which supports what she says about her housing choices.
Ms B says she had to rent, not buy as she was desperate to move to her own space closer
to her childrens schools and the Coronavirus pandemic was starting to take hold, which left
too much uncertainty as to how long a house purchase would take to complete. She also
says she has put in an offer on a house since her six-month tenancy expired.
So, while I cant reasonably say Ms B would have bought another new build home from the
same developer, I am satisfied she would have bought a house elsewhere, instead of
moving in with her parents, had she had access to the money HSBC incorrectly blocked.
With that in mind, Ive thought about the other losses Ms B claims. She says she put her
furniture into storage before the house move fell through, and that she had to keep it in
storage for an additional two months as a result of the block. Ive looked at the evidence Mrs
B has sent in to support this and Im not satisfied it supports what she says. The invoice isnt
clear as to the period the fees were charged for. It seems that they were charged for April
and May 2020, which is after Ms B was able to secure rented accommodation.
That being the case, I cant say the fees were HSBCs responsibility. But if Ms B can
produce evidence that shows she paid storage fees as a result of the block, Ill reconsider
this point.
As to Ms Bs claim she was spending an additional £100 a month on petrol, Ive looked at
where she was living and where she had to travel to complete the school run. As a rough
estimate, it seems that she was travelling 80 to 90 miles per day. The difficulty with this part
of Ms Bs claim is in establishing the true financial loss. I cant say what distance she would
have been travelling, had she moved closer to the schools and I cant accurately calculate
the additional petrol costs. But I do think Ms B should be compensated for this element of
her complaint, so I will factor this into the amount of compensation I award for trouble and
upset.
Finally, Ms B also claims her car lease and mobile phone contracts were cancelled, and that
her children were expelled from school because of the block. And while I have no doubt Mrs
Bs financial circumstances were severely impacted by the block, I have to take into account
the impact of the money HSBC correctly blocked.
Ive said Im persuaded Ms B would have bought a house with the £315,000 HSBC wasnt
supposed to block. And Im satisfied that would have been Ms Bs number one priority. But,
based on all of the evidence Ive seen, it seems more likely than not that a house purchase
would have taken all of Ms Bs available funds. And I havent seen any evidence to show
she would have retained enough money after the purchase to maintain all of her other
expenses.
I accept Ms B may have tried to hold some funds back for such expenses. But I have to
balance that against her overall financial position as a result of the money HSBC correctly
blocked. Having done so, I can only reasonably conclude that Ms B would have
experienced some financial difficulties regardless of whether or not HSBC made a mistake.
And because I havent seen any evidence to show how Ms B would have structured her
finances, I cant reasonably make an award for the lease, phone and school fees.
I should stress the lack of available evidence isnt a criticism of Ms B: gathering evidence for
a complaint would have been the last thing on her mind when all of this was happening. And
its very difficult for her to say now what she would have done, had various circumstances
played out differently. And even more difficult for her to evidence that.
Trouble and upsetBeyond the pure financial loss, Ms B was also put to significant trouble and upset as a
result of HSBCs error. As Ive said above, she and her three children had to move in with
her parents and complete a long journey every morning and afternoon for the school run.
Ms B has told our Service that her son is autistic, which made the inconvenience more
troublesome. And that her step-father and brother (who also moved to Ms Bs parents
house at the time) both suffer from conditions that made them high-risk for the purposes of
Coronavirus, the effects of which were spreading around the world during the time Ms B
was denied access to her money.
Im grateful to Ms B for talking me through her experience and explaining the impact the
block had on her. And Im minded to increase the award HSBC have made. But Ill explain
why Im increasing the award, and why Im not asking HSBC to meet the amount Ms B
asked for.
Im minded to award Ms B £2,000 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she
experienced. That amount is at the top the bracket our Service considers to be substantial.
When deciding how much HSBC should pay Ms B, Ive considered her living situation and
the inconvenience caused by the extended school run. Ive also considered the timing of the
block in that it happened shortly before Christmas and in that it came at a very difficult time
in Ms Bs life.
But Ive balanced that against the fact that Ms B still would have experienced some distress
and inconvenience if HSBC had applied the block correctly. For the reasons Ive mentioned
above, she still wouldve been deprived of a significant sum of money and her situation
would still have been very difficult. So while HSBCs error compounded the situation, it
wasnt the sole cause of all of Ms Bs troubles.
And Im satisfied that £2,000 fairly reflects the extent of the harm attributable to HSBCs
error. HSBCs actions worsened the position Ms B was in, and led to uncertainty for a
number of months. So, I think a payment of £2,000 fairly represents the anxiety caused by
HSBCs error.
Ms B may feel that £2,000 doesnt fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience she
experienced. But my view is that £2,000 is a significant payment in accordance with our
guidelines and I hope my explanation helps Ms B to understand my reasoning. Im not
seeking to down play her experience: I recognise how she felt during this time and I think
£2,000 is fair compensation in these circumstances.
Interest
Finally, theres the matter of interest to address. As a result of the block, Ms B was denied
access to her funds from 12 December 2019 to 13 March 2020, or 92 days. For the reasons
Ive set out above, Im satisfied that she would have put those funds to use, had she had
access to them. And I think its fair that HSBC should pay interest to Ms B to compensate
her for the period during which it deprived her of access to those funds.
The frozen balance in Ms Bs current account was £8,091.48, and the balance in her
savings account (after deducting the £350,000 HSBC was entitled to block) was
£315,239.16, giving a total of £323,330.64.
8% simple interest on the total balance for 92 days is £6,520.04. HSBC has told met it cant
find anything to show it told Ms B her account was re-opened on the day that happened i.e.
4 February 2020. But it has said it will refer the question to the relevant department on
receipt of this provisional decision.Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied Ms B didnt know the account balances was
available before 13 March 2020. But if HSBC can demonstrate that it did inform Ms B before
13 March 2020, I will consider whether it should pay interest over a shorter period of time.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or submissions. HSBC replied 
with evidence they suggested showed Ms B became aware the block had been lifted sooner 
than 13 March 2020. And it pointed out Ms B had access to a credit card with an available 
balance of around £3,000.
Ms B provided evidence to show she had failed to pay various bills while the block was in 
place. And invoices demonstrating the storage costs shed incurred. She said she had to pay 
for storage because she was only able to afford a two-bed house while HSBC had held her 
money. Ms Bs mother also contacted us to say she would have considered loaning Ms B 
£350,000 had HSBC only blocked the correct amount. 
I asked HSBC to comment on the storage costs, but I didnt receive a reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Ms B knew her current account was unblocked on 6 February 2020. Ive 
listened to a call between HSBC and Ms B where Ms B said last time I did this, you 
unblocked my current account. So, because Ms B knew she could withdraw her current 
account balance on 6 February HSBC should pay interest on the balance from 12 December 
2019 to 6 February 2020. The current account balance was £8,091.48, so interest at a rate 
of 8% on that amount for that time period is £99.12.
However, Ive still only seen evidence Ms B was aware her other account was unblocked 
from 13 March 2020. In the calls HSBC have sent me, Ms B firstly says theres an ongoing 
issue with HSBC, by which she appears to be referring to the block. On the second call, 
HSBC confirm theres a block and says she needs to speak to her barrister. 
The barrister HSBC are referring to was not Ms Bs barrister, he was acting for a third party. 
So while I have seen evidence that shows HSBC told the barrister Ms B could access the 
remaining £315,219.16. I havent seen any evidence that shows HSBC or the barrister told 
Ms B. And given Ms Bs situation, my view is that she would have accessed the money 
sooner, had she known she could.
That being the case, HSBC must pay interest at 8% on the balance of £315,219.16 from 12 
December 2019 to 13 March 2020. The total sum payable in this regard is £6,356.28, giving 
a total interest figure of £6,455.40.
Im also satisfied the storage costs Ms B incurred were as a result of the block. Ms B has 
explained she could only rent a two-bed house, which meant she needed storage space. 
And the invoices she has now sent me to demonstrate the fees she incurred in this regard. 
Since HSBC didnt raise any objections or counter-evidence relating to those costs, my final 
decision is that HSBC must also pay £2,534.40 for storage costs.
Ive also given further consideration to whether Ms B would have been able to borrow money 
from her parents. Ms Bs mother says she would have taken legal advice and would 
probably have bought 50% of the new build house Ms B was trying to buy, with the other 
50% being paid for by Ms B. I dont doubt Ms Bs mother would consider taking such action to help out her daughter. But, on balance, Im not persuaded she would have done so. 
Such a purchase would potentially give rise to additional stamp duty and capital gains taxes. 
And Ms Bs mother would also have had to weigh up the likelihood of whether Ms B would 
ever recover the £300,000 HSBC correctly blocked. That money was held subject to a Court 
order. And, having seen the order, it seems that there are some sensitive and complicated 
issues to be resolved before any money is released. 
So, it seems to me that there would have been numerous risks and considerations to go 
through. And I cant say that its more likely than not that Ms Bs mother would have gone 
ahead, knowing those risks. It is of course impossible to know what Ms Bs mother would 
have actually done, so Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely to be the case, 
having reviewed all of the evidence.
HSBC sent me Ms Bs credit card statements to show she had an available balance which 
could have been used for day to day purchases. But that doesnt change my decision as Ive 
already said Ms B would have experienced some financial difficulties regardless of the block. 
That is to say that Ms B wouldnt have had access to in excess of £300,000 even if HSBC 
had acted correctly. And I havent made an award for things Ms B wouldve paid for if she 
had more available money, save for the house.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put 
matters right, HSBC UK Bank PLC must pay Ms B:
Interest of £6,455.40
£2,000 in recognition of the trouble and upset Ms B experienced; and
£2,534.40 in respect of Ms Bs storage costs.
The total of which is £10,989.80
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
*If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to withhold 
income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it should tell Ms B how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman