DRN-2142729
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund eight payments 
totalling £932.02, made using her debit card that Mrs B says she didnt authorise. 
What happened
Between 20 December 2019 and 1 February 2020, Mrs B says there were multiple 
transactions made from her debit card, held with NatWest. 
Mrs B says she didnt authorise or consent to the following transactions:
Disputed 
NumberDate Time Type of transaction Amount
1 20/12/2019 22:00:19 Internet payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£105.48
2 20/12/2019 22:46:03 Internet payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£52.90
3 01/01/2020 02:53:57 Internet Payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£38.95
4 11/01/2020 22:19:28 Internet Payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£38.95
5 17/01/2020 20:06:35 Internet Payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£502.00
6 23/01/2020 19:00:13 Other  
payment to energy provider -
(Keyed manually) £84.44
7 23/01/2020 19:03:22 Other  
payment to energy provider - 
(Keyed manually)£28.79
8 01/02/2020 20:02:55 Internet payment  
(Card not present E-commerce)£80.51
Mrs B says her husband (who, for ease, I will refer to as Mr B within this decision) had 
access to her mobile phone (including the password for the phone) and also had access to 
her card  as he controlled their finances. Mrs B has said she is now divorced from Mr B.
Mrs B also says that Mr B had a friend (who I shall refer to as Mr C), who was living with 
her and Mr B at the time. Mrs B says Mr C had taken out some loans using her address and 
she had to prove to various businesses that Mr C was no longer living there.
Mrs B suspects that either Mr B or Mr C may have carried out the transactions. 
Mrs B also said that her mobile phone was taken in for repairs at the end of December 2019 
/ start of January 2020. Mrs B says her phone was in the repair shop for around three to four 
days and Mrs B was unsure as to whether this had something to do with the disputed 
transactions.
Mrs B notified NatWest about the possible fraudulent transactions on 5 February 2020. 
NatWest looked into the matter and declined Mrs Bs fraud claim. Mrs B appealed the matter 
on 12 February 2020 with NatWest issuing Mrs B a final response on the matter on 
21 February 2020, standing by its decision not to refund the transactions.
Broadly summarised, NatWest considered that the transactions were either carried out by 
Mrs B or someone known to Mrs B.
Unhappy Mrs B referred the matter to our service.
NatWest provided our service with information regarding the disputed transactions and also 
provided our service with previous fraud claims Mrs B had made to it.
NatWest say that Mrs B has raised six claims of fraud on her current account since 
July 2018. NatWest has provided the following details about the previous claims for disputed 
transactions:
Date raised Case 
referenceTransactions 
in disputetransactions Card 
ending Outcome 
9 July 2018 C****1623 1 transaction 
totalling £250Cash withdrawal 2673 Decline
10 July 2018 C****2939 1 transaction 
totalling £5.002673 Decline 
11 July 2018 C****3935 3 transactions 
totalling 
£12.282673 Decline 
20 May 2019 ****4485 1 transaction 
totalling 
£568.99transfer abroad 7319 Refund
24 June 2019 ****9213 4 transactions 
totalling 
£194.474 transfers abroad 2908 Refund
20 July 2019 ****7016 3 transaction 
totalling 
£510.082 x food retail 
1 x £483.50 
(transfer abroad)3346 Refund
NatWest say Mrs B was sent a new replacement card each time a fraud claim was logged. 
NatWest say Mrs B has logged six claims for fraudulent transactions on her current account, 
over four debit cards, since July 2018. 
NatWest says this suggests that Mrs Bs card details were not being kept secure and that it 
is unusual her details would be compromised on so many occasions during a short
period of time.
NatWest has explained that with the fraud claims in May, June and July 2019, it refunded 
Mrs B the amounts without investigating the fraud claims.With regards to the eight disputed transactions between 20 December 2019 and 
1 February 2020, NatWest say the payments were manually keyed over the internet using 
the 16-digit debit card number, expiry date and three-digit security code.
NatWest say the disputed transactions took place over a five-week period and given the 
nature of some of the payments, it seemed unlikely that the transactions were carried out by 
an opportunistic fraudster.
It further explained that some of the payments were made through an iPhone and some 
were made using a PC. NatWest say that there are times when genuine transactions were 
made in between the disputed transactions  and the transactions are made within minutes 
of each other. 
For four of the disputed transactions, the internet protocol address (often referred to as the 
I.P address) is the same location as Mrs Bs home internet. And three of these transactions 
were carried out using Mrs Bs iPhone.
NatWest also say the payment for £502 on 17 January 2020 was conducted through Mrs Bs 
iPhone, at Mrs Bs home I.P address. As Mrs B had made other payments through the 
iPhone and from the same I.P address, that she wasnt disputing, NatWest concluded the 
payment could have only been made by Mrs B or someone with her knowledge and consent.
NatWest were also concerned that the online audit for when Mrs B logged on to her online 
banking account showed she had logged on multiple times in between 20 December 2019 
and 1 February 2020. NatWest questioned why the fraud was not reported sooner as Mrs B 
would have noticed the reduction in her balance had she not carried out the transactions.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised 
they considered no one other than Mrs B couldve authorised the transactions in dispute.
Mrs B responded to the investigators opinion disagreeing. Mrs B said that after a previous 
fraud claim she had been in branch and asked NatWest to stop all online transactions on her
account. Mrs B said that she arranged for these to be stopped and if she wanted to use her 
card for an online transaction, she would call NatWest and ask for the restriction to be lifted 
to enable her to carry out the transaction.
Our investigator went back to NatWest with this information, and NatWest confirmed that it 
was unable to modify any consumers debit card instructions to only allow online payments 
when requested and branch staff would have been aware that this was the case.
Our investigator let Mrs B know that he hadnt seen anything that changed his opinion.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and broadly for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
Within PSR 2017, it states a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has 
given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user (in 
this case Mrs B) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case NatWest) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer, unless they have failed to keep safe their 
personalised security credentials relating to the payment instrument.
Mrs B says she didnt consent or authorise the transactions and is seeking a refund of the 
total payments made from her account. NatWest has said the disputed transactions were 
made using Mrs Bs card details and consider they were carried out by Mrs B or were carried 
out by someone with her knowledge and consent. 
First, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the disputed activity 
was authenticated and then second, I need to determine whether I think its more likely than 
not that Mrs B or someone with her knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity, 
or whether I think it was carried out without her knowledge and consent. 
The disputed transactions  were they authenticated?
NatWest has provided evidence to show that the disputed transactions were all 
authenticated by Mrs Bs correct card details being entered. This required the 16-digit card 
number, the expiry date and the three-digit security number.
So Im satisfied that for each of the disputed transactions made, they were all authenticated 
by Mrs Bs correct card details being entered. 
This means I now need to determine whether Mrs B consented to the transactions being 
made.
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mrs B could have 
made the disputed transactions without her consent, or whether I think Mrs B, or somebody 
with her knowledge and consent, made the transactions Mrs B is disputing.
Could an unknown party have made the transactions?
The disputed transactions took place between 20 December 2019 and 1 February 2020, with 
Mrs Bs card details being used. And Mrs B has said that her card had remained in her 
possession.
It is highly unlikely that an unknown party managed to gain access to Mrs Bs card details 
and then used it multiple times over a five-week period. If an unknown party had managed to 
gain access to Mrs Bs card details, they would have typically tried to gain as much from the 
account as possible, and as quickly as they could, maximising the spend.
I am also mindful that NatWest has provided evidence to shows that four of the disputed 
transactions were made from Mrs Bs home location. This is known from the I.P address. 
And out of those four transactions, three were made through Mrs Bs iPhone and one was 
made through a PC. So it is unlikely an unknown party to Mrs B would have had the 
opportunity to carry out the disputed transactions.Mrs B has also mentioned that her mobile phone was in the repair shop for three or four 
days at either the end of December 2019 or at the start of January 2020. And Mrs B thinks 
this may have something to do with the transactions being made. However the transactions 
were all made using Mrs B card details  so leaving her phone for repair wouldnt have 
enabled an unknown fraudster to carry out the transactions as they would have needed 
Mrs Bs card details  and Mrs Bs card hadnt been lost or stolen, it remained in her 
possession.
So I cant reasonably conclude that an unknown third party managed to obtain Mrs Bs card 
details and used it on occasions over the period of around five weeks, with several 
transactions taking place at Mrs Bs home location and through Mrs Bs iPhone.
Could a known party have carried out the transactions without Mrs Bs consent?
Mrs B thinks this is what happened here. Mrs B suspects that either her ex-husband Mr B or 
his friend Mr C, may have carried out the transactions without her consent. Having looked at 
all the evidence, Im not as satisfied as I would need to be, to say that this is what happened 
here.
Mrs B had said that Mr C had taken out loans using her address and given he had done this 
I can understand why Mrs B thinks this shows he could have used her card without her 
consent. But Mrs B has said that Mr C was living with her and Mr B at the time. So Mr C 
taking out a loan using that address doesnt seem incorrect. Although I appreciate that when 
that loan provider sent letters to the address it would have been an inconvenience to Mrs B 
in explaining that Mr C no longer lived there. But just because Mr C had taken out a loan 
using Mrs Bs address doesnt mean that he had used Mrs Bs card without her consent. Ill 
explain why.
NatWest has provided the online audit for the period when the disputed transactions took 
place. Having looked at the transactions I can see that there are times when there are 
transactions being made that arent being disputed and these are made in close proximity to 
transactions that are being disputed.
On the 21 December 2019 at 22:46pm, there was a transaction made for £52.90 to a retailer 
that Mrs B is disputing. NatWest has provided evidence to show that this was carried out 
through a PC and the I.P address is Mrs Bs home location. There were also two 
transactions that arent being disputed that were made at 22:16pm for £50.95 and 22:38pm 
for £184.88. Both were made to clothes retailers. So there was a genuine transaction made 
by Mrs B, around eight minutes before the disputed transaction. And the transaction at 
22:38pm was also carried out by PC from the same I.P address. It seems unlikely that the 
transaction at 22:46pm was carried out without Mrs Bs knowledge given that the payment 
and the earlier payment Mrs B had genuinely made, were both made through a PC from 
Mrs Bs home within minutes of each other.
 
On the 1 February 2020 at 20:02pm, a disputed transaction was made for £80.51. And there 
was a transaction made shortly before and after this that Mrs B isnt disputing. There was a 
transaction made at 19:50pm for £22.50 and a transaction made at 20:14pm for £45. Both 
were to clothes / fashion retailers.
I cant see how, if Mrs B made a genuine transaction either side of the disputed transaction 
at 20:02pm, that either Mr B or Mr C carried out a transaction without Mrs B knowledge or 
consent in between the two genuine transactions she made.There were also two transactions made to the same retailer (which is typically a womens 
fashion retailer), one was made on the 1 January 2020 and the second one was made on 
11 January 2020. Both were for the same value - £38.95 and were made online, with Mrs Bs 
iPhone being used to make the transaction with the I.P address again being Mrs Bs home 
location. So Mrs B would have had to have presumably been present when the transactions 
were made each time as they were made using her mobile device. The mobile banking 
online audit also shows that after the transaction on 11 January 2020 at 22:19pm, Mrs Bs 
online banking was logged on to at 22:21pm. I query why someone carrying out the 
transaction without Mrs Bs consent would log on to her online banking after having already 
successfully made a fairly low value transaction to a retailer.
Also having looked at the disputed transactions, two transactions are to an energy provider 
and were made on 23 January 2020 at 19:03pm, with the two transactions totalling just over 
£110. From reviewing Mrs Bs account statements there had been nine payments to the 
same energy provider since January 2019  but Mrs B is only disputing the two made in 
January 2020. 
The mobile online banking audit also shows Mrs Bs online banking was logged on to prior to 
the two payments to the energy provider. It was then logged on to again straight after at 
19:03pm. I question why, had someone been carrying out the transactions to the same 
energy provider Mrs B used but without Mrs Bs knowledge or consent, they would log on 
prior to, and then straight after, the transaction. Had they logged on to see if Mrs B had 
enough money in her account so they could make the payment  means they would have 
seen that Mrs B had enough funds and simply made the payment without the need to check 
Mrs Bs online banking again straight after. It also seems highly unusual that someone 
known to Mrs B would use her card details to pay an electricity bill which is seemingly for the 
energy provider Mrs B was using. Again I havent seen enough to be satisfied that the 
payments werent carried out without her knowledge or consent. 
With regards to the £502 transfer made via a money remittance provider abroad, this was 
carried out on 17 January 2020 at 20:06pm. The mobile online banking audit shows that the 
payment was made to a money remittance provider via Mrs Bs iPhone and the I.P address 
was Mrs Bs home location. Mrs Bs mobile online banking was logged on to at 18:50pm, so 
before the disputed transaction, and then again straight after the payment at 20:07pm. As 
explained above, I find it unlikely that had either Mr B or Mr C carried out this transaction 
successfully that they would then log on to Mrs Bs online banking straightway afterwards to 
see what her resulting balance would be. Given the time of the transaction, the I.P address 
and that Mrs Bs iPhone was used, suggests that Mrs B was presumably present at the time 
of the transaction. And I cant reasonably conclude that she wasnt aware of the transaction 
or that it was carried out without her knowledge and consent.
I appreciate that Mrs B has said that Mr B had access to her phone and new her passwords 
and controlled their finances at that time. And I have given this careful consideration. But 
looking at the timeframe in which the payments were made, over a period five weeks, with 
the majority of the payments being made from Mrs Bs home location and through her 
iPhone, alongside the value of the payments and where the payments were made to  I cant 
be as satisfied as I would need to be that all the payments were made without Mrs Bs 
knowledge and consent. I am also mindful that while Mrs B has said that Mr B controlled their finances and had 
access to her card and phone, Mrs B had used her card for various spending that she isnt 
disputing, and Mrs B has said she did check her online banking on occasions. So whilst I 
have taken on board Mrs Bs comments about her ex-husband, Mrs B did have access to 
her card and to her mobile banking. And I have to also balance this alongside the fact that 
Mrs B logged the fraud claims on each occasion in 2018 and 2019 with NatWest. 
I do appreciate Mrs B received refunds on each occasion for the fraud claims in May, June 
and July 2019  but that doesnt automatically mean the fraud claims raised for the 
transactions in December 2019 and January 2020 should be refunded. NatWest has said it 
made the decision to refund the amounts in May, June and July 2019 without investigating 
the matter each time.  
Finally, Mrs B has said that after the fraud in 2018 she went into branch to stop any online 
transactions being made on her account. And that if she wanted to use her card for an online 
transaction, she would call NatWest and ask for the transaction to be lifted. Mrs B says had 
this happened then the disputed transactions wouldnt have taken place. NatWest has said 
that it cant locate any notes that reflect this conversation and it has also explained that it 
cant place this type of restriction on an account which branch staff would have also known. 
I agree that this is something NatWest wouldnt have offered Mrs B. Having a debit card that 
can work in chip and PIN situations and for cash withdrawals but not for online payments 
isnt something that NatWest would have been able to facilitate. In essence, the whole card 
would have to be blocked, and every time Mrs B wanted to use it for anything, the restriction 
would need to be lifted and this isnt something NatWest has said they offered. And I am 
also mindful that Mrs B made online purchases after 2018 that she isnt disputing. So this 
doesnt affect the outcome.
Overall, in order for me to direct NatWest to refund Mrs B for the transactions she is now 
disputing, I need to be satisfied that the transactions were carried out without Mrs B 
knowledge or consent. Having reviewed the evidence and after careful consideration of the 
testimony provided by both parties, I cant be satisfied that this is what happened here. On 
the balance of probabilities it is more likely that the transactions were carried out either by 
Mrs B or by someone with her knowledge and consent.
Because of this I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman