DRN-2636822
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint relates to an administrative mistake made by Paragon Finance PLC when 
it completed some alterations to his secured loan with it. 
What happened
Mr N complained about his loan in 2019. Following the involvement of this service, Paragon 
agreed to complete some alterations to the loan. He was told at the time of the initial offer 
made by Paragon that the contractual monthly payment (CMP) would be around £545 going 
forward. Subsequently he asked that some arrears be capitalised, which would increase the 
mortgage balance to be repaid over the term and would have increased the CMP.
Unfortunately, when Paragon implemented the changes at the end of 2019, it made a 
mistake and told Mr N that the CMP was only just over £335. Mr N paid that amount until 
early 2020 when a payment holiday was applied to the account. The payment holiday was 
due to end in September 2020 and so Paragon recalculated the CMP in August to ensure 
the loan balance would be repaid by the end of the term. Mr N was told he needed to pay a 
CMP of approximately £588.
In addition, when the payment holiday was being applied to the loan, the CMP for April was 
incorrectly returned to Mr N bank account.
Mr N complained about the increased CMP Paragon had asked him to pay. 
Paragon explained that it had made a mistake in November 2019 when it recalculated the 
CMP; it should have been approximately £553. It apologised for the error and offered to:
Credit the loan account with the difference between the CMP that should have been paid 
and that which Mr N had paid, for the months of November 2019 to March 2020.
Credit the loan account with an amount equal to the incorrect CMP for the month of April, 
as it had incorrectly returned the payment to Mr N.
Remove any adverse information on Mr Ns credit file regarding the missed April 2020 
payment.
Pay him £100 compensation for the inconvenience and confusion caused.
In addition, as Mr N hadnt started paying the mortgage again in September 2020 when he 
was meant to, Paragon offered to extend the payment holiday arrangement to cover that 
month too. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Paragons response or its offer. He referred the complaint to this 
service. Mr N told us that in settlement of the complaint he wanted the CMP changed back to 
c.£335.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. This was because she thought the offer Paragon had made was appropriate and put 
things right. She confirmed to Mr N that the CMP Paragon had asked for going forward was 
money that he was due to pay. She also pointed out that hed been made aware before he 
accepted the offer on the previous complaint that his CMP would be in the region of £545 
(before the arrears were consolidated). 
Mr N didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he had it in writing from 
Paragon what the monthly payments would be following the settlement of his previous 
complaint. He considered that this constituted a legally binding contract. As such, he was 
only obliged to make that level of payment. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
Our investigator explained our remit and that, unlike the courts, we have a fair and 
reasonable jurisdiction. As such, while Mr N believed that Paragon should be bound by the 
figure in the letter he was sent after the loan was reconstructed, that wasnt something we 
would require Paragon to do. Mr N remained dissatisfied and confirmed that he wanted an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragon has acknowledged that it made a mistake when it calculated the CMP following 
restructuring Mr Ns loan in 2019, so I dont need to make a finding on that issue. What I 
need to consider is whether the offer it has made is fair in the circumstances and what 
should happen going forward.
Mr N has put forward that as Paragon confirmed in writing that he would only need to pay 
c.£335 per month to the loan going forward thats all he should have to pay. I cant agree. As 
our investigator explained to Mr N, our remit is a fair and reasonable one. That means that 
when we look at redress, we aim to place the consumer in the position they would have 
been in, had the mistake not been made. In this case, that would be Mr N having been 
asked to pay the correct CMP of c.£553. I would also comment that given Mr N had been 
told by our investigator the CMP would be c.£545 before he asked for the remaining arrears 
on the account to be consolidated into the loan, I believe he would have known that the CMP 
of c.£335 was incorrect and lower than it should have been.
As such, I consider that it was not inappropriate of Paragon to require Mr N to pay the 
correct CMP following his payment holiday. That CMP took into account of the missed 
capital repayments during the payment holiday and so was higher than it would have been 
before the holiday. That again is entirely appropriate.
As for the redress, as I said above, it should place the consumer in the position that they 
would have been in but for the mistake. In this case, there was a shortfall on the payments 
Mr N made. Paragon has offered to make up that shortfall. That is all I could require it to do. 
In addition, Paragon incorrectly returned Mr Ns April payment. Mr N would still be due to 
make that payment and all I would expect Paragon to do would be to return the refunded 
CMP and again make up the difference between that amount and the correct CMP. Paragon 
has offered more than that amount. It has also agreed to correct Mr Ns credit file to remove 
mention of the payment being removed. Again, this is the correct action for it to take.
As I have said above, I believe that Mr N would have had reason to question the CMP of 
c.£335, so this could have caused confusion at that time. However, the error was to Mr Ns 
benefit and while I am sure that Paragon realising its mistake when it did was disappointing 
for Mr N, I think the £100 it has offered in this respect is an appropriate sum to compensate 
him. Overall, I am satisfied that Paragon has treated Mr N fairly and its offer is more than 
appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman