DRN-3150807
Complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying charges 
to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 25 October 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong or had treated Mr S unfairly. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. On 25 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial 
findings on Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. Having carefully considered everything 
provided, I thought that HSBC acted unfairly when it continued adding interest and 
associated fees and charges to Mr S overdraft from March 2014. I was satisfied that by this 
point, it was evident Mr S was hardcore borrowing. A cursory look at his statements leading 
up to this period showed that hed only spent short sporadic periods  often no more than a 
few days - with a credit balance. 
It was also clear that Mr S was taking out payday loans with a significant number of lenders 
in an attempt to try and make ends meet and mask the fact that he was gambling heavily. So 
at this point, I thought that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr S was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr S with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility.
All of this meant that HSBC should have realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr S overdraft usage 
until a couple or so years later and instead continued charging in the same way until then, I 
thought it failed to act fairly and reasonably. Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees 
and charges on his overdraft at a time when he was already experiencing difficulty. So I 
stated my intention to issue a final decision which found that Mr S lost out because of what 
HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision   
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to think 
about.
Mr S confirmed he agreed with my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further to 
me to consider.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision set out why I was intending to uphold Mr S complaint. And as 
neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. So Im still upholding Mr S complaint.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr S current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from March 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr S 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from March 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision of 25 October 2021, Im 
upholding Mr S complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman