DRN-1673123
 
The complaint
Mr D and Ms S are upset by their insurers UK Insurance Ltd (UKI) handling of their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In 2016 Mr D and Ms S suffered a flood at their home. Extensive damage occurred and they 
contacted UKI to make a claim. Contractors were instructed by UKI to carry out the repairs. 
During this time Mr D and Ms S had cause to complain about the level of service they 
received. UKI admitted that its level of service fell below its standards and offered 
compensation which was accepted. 
The complaint that Mr D and Ms S are currently raising relates to UKIs matching sets 
exclusion clause of their policy. As a result of the flood their kitchen base units were 
damaged and needed to be replaced, which UKI accepted. Unfortunately, the kitchen 
company where Mr D and Ms S bought the units from had ceased trading. So an exact 
match to the existing wall units wasnt available. 
UKI relied upon the exclusion clause of the policy regarding matching sets, as a reason why 
it wouldnt replace the undamaged wall units. Mr D and Ms S complained and UKI agreed to 
pay 50% towards the cost of replacing the wall units to allow the kitchen to match.
Mr D and Ms S were unhappy about this and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that UKI had acted fairly. She said 
that UKI could rely upon the exclusion clause and its offer was in line with what this service 
would generally offer. So there was no more that she could ask them to do. 
 
Mr D and Ms S didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr D and Ms S but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.Following our investigators view, Mr D and Ms S have confirmed that their complaint relates 
only to UKIs matching sets policy and how it applied it to their claim. They said they were 
satisfied with the level of compensation UKI offered them regarding the complaints raised 
about its service. 
Having looked at the policy, I can see it does cover the replacement of the damaged items, 
but excludes cover for undamaged items:
We will not pay the cost of replacing or altering any undamaged items solely because they 
form any part of a set or suite, group or collection of items of a uniform design, nature or 
colour.
UKI agreed to pay for the damaged units outright. So I can see how it might seem unfair to 
expect UKI to pay for items that havent been damaged. But the units had been matching 
before the event occurred. So I think that it is reasonable for UKI to compensate Mr D and 
Ms S to reflect the loss of match.
I have now considered whether UKIs offer of 50% towards the cost of the undamaged units 
is fair in the circumstances. 
I think that UKIs offer and payment was fair and would be in line with what the service would 
recommend and I will explain why. I have looked at the terms of the policy and it says that 
UKI wont pay for any undamaged items regardless of them being from a group or collection 
of items. 
I can see that UKI had offered to pay around £1500 towards the cost of the new undamaged 
kitchen units. Although I can understand Mr D and Ms S frustration of not having the entire 
kitchen replaced, UKI has offered to meet half the costs of the replacement walls units, 
which under the terms of the policy it didnt have to do.
Under the policy UKI obligations are to ensure that the damaged units were replaced, which 
is what it did. So I dont think that UKI acted unreasonably by applying the terms of the policy 
to the claim nor do I think they acted unfairly by offering to pay half the costs of the 
replacement wall units.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6July2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman