DRN-4310249
The complaint 
Miss T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wouldnt refund money she 
lost in an investment scam.
What happened
What Miss T says:
Miss T is represented by a third-party firm of solicitors, and I will refer to Miss T as the 
complainant.
In June 2020, Miss T was out of work due to the pandemic. She started to investigate 
investment into cryptocurrency as a way of making money. A friend had successfully 
invested into crypto before. Miss T made some online inquires and was contacted by 
someone purporting to be from an investment company - which I will call A. This turned out 
to be a scammer.
The person spent eight weeks talking to Miss T and she came to trust the scammer. Miss T 
says she went onto review websites at the time and found positive reviews.
Initially, Miss T made a payment of £2 to her account with a payment service provider (which 
I will call B  which was a well-known payments firm for bitcoin transactions). The scammer 
helped Miss T set up her account with B, and showed her how to make a payment from B to 
A.  She could then see the payment of £2 appeared in her bitcoin account with the scammer 
investment company (A).
Within four days, Miss T was told the investment of £2 was already increasing in value and 
she was told bitcoin was rising in value again. A made a payment of £40.15 to Miss Ts 
account on 10 August 2020  to show she was making money. The scammer (A) said that 
an investment of £14,000 would grow by £7,000 in a short period of time. She made a 
payment of £7,180 on 11 August 2020. This was then shown to grow in value to £11,000 
over the next week or so. Miss T was encouraged by this and made a further payment of 
£7,100 on 19 August 2020. The payments were:
Date Method/Beneficiary Amount
6 August 2020 Faster payments/ Payment service provider B £2.00
10 August 2020 Credit from A (£40.15)
11 August 2020 Faster payments/ Payment service provider B £7,178
19 August 2020 Faster payments/ Payment service provider B £7,100
24 August 2020 Credit from A (£5)
Total £14,235
Miss T intended to then withdraw the money but the next day, she saw all the money in her 
trading account with A had disappeared. She then realised she had been scammed. She 
was contacted again by other  people purporting to be from A and was asked to pay fees to 
get her money back, but she didnt do that.
Miss T says she was ashamed about what happened and is still struggling to come to terms 
with it. She lost most of her savings  and as she had no work at the time, struggled to keep 
afloat. She has been stressed and worried about conducting any business online. She says 
that to this day, she is still playing catch up to recover from the loss of money she suffered.
Miss T argues that NatWest shouldve done more to protect her. She wasnt given any 
warnings about the payments. If NatWest had intervened and provided a warning on how to 
spot investment scams, she says she wouldnt have made the payments. She says NatWest 
should refund the money paid.
Miss T contacted NatWest in August 2022  and said NatWest said they couldnt help her. 
She said the bank were dismissive of her case.
What NatWest says:
NatWest said theyd made the payments in accordance with Miss Ts instructions and 
werent liable. Theyd provided online warnings on their website to warn customers of the 
types of scams being seen. 
NatWest said that after March 2018, a message was displayed on the payments screen 
when a customer made a payment  to warn of the types of scams being seen. These are 
shown when a payment is being made, or a new payee is being set up. Customers must 
confirm theyre confident with the payment before making each transaction. If a payment 
matches a known trend, then a security check is carried out.
NatWest said the payments were to Miss Ts own account with B. This meant:
- NatWest couldnt be held responsible for Miss Ts losses as she then moved the 
funds from her account with B to the scammer. The point of loss was when Miss T 
transferred the money from B to A.
- The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) didnt apply.
- no funds could be recovered  as the funds reached Miss Ts account with B before 
being withdrawn and paid to A. 
NatWest apologised for the experience she had when she contacted them about the scam.
Our investigation so far:
Miss T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the second and third payments 
were unusual and NatWest shouldve intervened and asked questions of Miss T. But she 
was persuaded that even if they had, it was likely that Miss T wouldve gone ahead and 
made the payments. This was because:- She had not been approached out of the blue by someone pressurising her to 
invest, but she had made the inquiry herself.
- She had been looking to invest in cryptocurrency and had a friend who had done so 
successfully.
- She had done a lot of research online and found nothing suspicious about company 
A. She said reviews were positive.
- She only made an initial investment of £2, and then discussions took place over 
several weeks  there wasnt any pressure for her to send money for a long time. 
- She received a credit of £40.15 on 10 August 2020  so all looked to be genuine.
- NatWest provided an online warning at the point of the payments. Miss T selected 
investing in cryptocurrency (e.g. Bitcoin) and then a tailored warning was then 
presented to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss T has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Miss T didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary  and in this case, the payments were made to Miss Ts own account with B. 
I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss T 
when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.The important matter here is whether these were payments that NatWest might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped them and 
contacted Miss T about them.
I looked at Miss Ts account. I think the two larger payments can be considered sufficiently 
unusual in amount for NatWest to have flagged them and asked questions of Miss T. There 
were some other payments, but they were of much lower value than the scam payments. 
E.g.:
- June 2020: £3,660  point of sale payment
- June 2020: £1,600  online payment
- June 2020: £1,000  BACS payment
- May 2020: £1,585, £2,460, £1,500, £5,000  online payments
- April 2020: £1,775  BACS payment
- April 2020: £2,470  online payment
- March 2020: £1,139  online payment
The payments in dispute were to a new payee and were for larger amounts than was usual 
for Miss T to make. And  the payments were to a payment service provider (B) - which was 
known to make bitcoin payments. So on balance, Im satisfied that its reasonable to have 
expected NatWest to step in, stop the payments and contact Miss T about them. But they 
didnt.
But  I noted that NatWest told us they presented Miss T with a warning message when she 
made the payments in question. This said: Protect your money from fraud and scams  are 
you confident that the payment youre about to make isnt a scam? Tell us your payment 
reason so we can help you protect yourselfThe warning went on to say, thinking of 
investing in Bitcoin or other Cryptocurrencies? and warned scammers will often contact you 
offering to invest in cryptocurrency (e.g. bitcoin) and will offer to guide you through opening a 
cryptocurrency account. If you cannot access the cryptocurrency wallet or withdraw money 
from it, this is a scam and you should stop making payments immediately. The warning had 
a link to the FCAs website which gave advice.
NatWest showed us evidence that this message was sent for the first payment, but couldnt 
confirm what Ms Ts response was, nor could they say if the warning was presented on the 
second payment as well. 
I then went onto consider what wouldve happened if NatWest had contacted Miss T  over 
and above the warning when the first payment was made. And on balance, here I agree with 
our investigator. I reviewed Miss Ts testimony and:
- She was looking to invest to make money as her line of work had been paused 
because of the pandemic.
- She had been encouraged to invest in bitcoin by a friend whod made money.
- She seemed to believe the claim that returns of £7,000 on an investment of £14,000 
was possible  even though in many ways this was too good to be true.
- She initiated online research herself into bitcoin investment.
- She carried out due diligence on the investment company A and was content it was 
genuine. She said the reviews were positive. 
- I noted that there were negative reviews on A dating from June 2020, saying the 
company were a scammer  so if Miss T did see those, she chose to ignore them.
- She said she spoke to several different people at A which gave the impression it had 
a large and credible company structure.- The scammer didnt pressurise her to make a payment for some weeks  and she 
could see the first payment of £2 had been received. She tracked performance on 
As website on her account.
- She came to trust the scammer as a friend and advisor. He appeared attentive and 
professional. He appeared to have her best interest at heart.
- He produced in-depth information about the trading process.
For all these reasons, on balance, Im persuaded that if NatWest had intervened, Miss T 
wouldve decided to go ahead anyway.
And therefore, my decision is that NatWest do not have to refund the money to Miss T.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether NatWest took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. But in this case, as the payments 
were sent to Miss Ts own account with B, there was no requirement to do so - as Miss T 
had then moved the funds onto the bitcoin scam company A. 
Im sorry Miss T has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, and will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant reasonably hold 
NatWest responsible for her losses.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman