DRN-4176333
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the support he received from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (Alphera) when he was in financial hardship.
When I refer to what Mr A and Alphera have said, it should also be taken to include things 
said on their behalf.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a used 
car, first registered in 2016. The cash price of the car was around £21,750 and the total 
amount payable was approximately £26,009. Mr A provided an advance payment of around 
£1,000. The duration of the agreement was set at 49 months, consisting of 48 payments of 
around £319 and an optional final repayment of around £9,697.
On 23 March 2020, the United Kingdom (UK) government announced that UK would enter a 
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In May 2020 Mr A requested financial assistance 
from Alphera, due to his income being impacted by the pandemic, and Alphera agreed to 
give Mr A a three-month payment deferral for the months of May, June, and July 2020. After 
this three-month period no payments were made by Mr A until he made a one-off payment of 
£1,058.70 in November 2020. This is an amount Alphera told him would bring his payments 
up to date. Following this, Mr A kept making payments towards his credit agreement. In 
February 2021, Mr A again contacted Alphera and requested a further payment deferral. Mr 
A said this deferral shouldve covered March, April, and May 2021 payments, but Alphera 
took a May 2021 payment. So, his deferral period ended a month too early. Mr A said this 
caused his bank account to go overdrawn, so he had to borrow money during that month 
from family. 
After this period no further payments were made towards the credit agreement as all direct 
debit payments were rejected. Alphera sent a default notice to Mr A on 13 April 2022 and as 
no contact was made by Mr A, they terminated Mr As credit agreement in May 2022.
Mr A said that he knows he had fallen behind on his payments, but he said that he didnt try 
to avoid the issue and wanted to work out a way of catching back up. But, he said, that since 
the pandemic Alphera has been difficult to get in contact with. He said at times it would take 
him over 30 minutes of being on hold on the phone before he was able to reach anyone at 
Alphera. And he said that, had they answered his calls in February and March 2022, a 
payment plan would have been in place. Mr A told our service that he doesnt have the time 
to wait on hold all day when calling Alphera because he must attend to his job, as well as 
deal with personal issues surrounding one of this family members. He said that he received 
the default notice and the termination letter, but both have arrived on the same day. He said, 
had he received the default notice earlier, he wouldve definitely contacted Alphera. He said 
they also initially reported incorrect information to the credit reference agencies as they were 
reporting his deferred payments as late on his credit file, which was having a negative 
impact. He said that his credit file has now been fixed but at that time it prevented him from 
getting any other form of finance. He says it also took him some time chasing Alphera before 
the reporting to the credit file was all amended. Overall, Mr A didnt think that Alphera, 
treated him fairly, so he complained to them. 
In June 2022, Alphera responded to Mr As complaint. In this correspondence they said that 
they will not be upholding his complaint. Alphera said that from June 2021 they didnt receive 
any payments from him. They said that for the months Mr A was in a payment deferral, they 
have not reported any missed or late payments, but for any other payments they were 
required as a responsible lender to report factually to credit reference agencies.
In the correspondence, they explained that on 13 April 2022, they issued a default notice to 
Mr A. This was due to high arrears balance, following several arrears letters, and after 
noticing that the car was registered to a third party which they said was classed as a breach 
of the terms and conditions of the agreement. The default notice provided Mr A with 20 days 
to remedy the default by amending the V5C document back into his name and address and 
to contact them to discuss the outstanding arrears balance. But they said that, as they 
received no contact from Mr A by 6 May 2022, they decided to terminate his agreement. So 
overall, due to the breach of the terms and conditions and considering that Mr A didnt make 
any payments between the months of June 2021 to April 2022, they felt that to terminate his 
agreement was the correct action to take. 
Mr A was unhappy with Alpheras response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was satisfied that Alphera havent been unreasonable, and he didnt think 
that Alphera needed to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 18 April 2023. In the provisional 
decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law, and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Mr A acquired the car under a hire purchase 
agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these 
sorts of agreements. 
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me, reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ive considered whether Alphera have done enough to support Mr A, when he told them that 
he was experiencing financial hardship. When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant 
rules and guidance at the time. The rules and guidance mentioned below refer to customers 
and consumers, and I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the 
words are to have the same meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published additional guidance 
which came into effect on 27 April 2020  Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers 
whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the 
payment deferrals, the guidance states the following: Where a customer is already 
experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result 
of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and later in September 2020. 
Both updates build on the previous guidance that was issued and stipulate that payment 
deferrals can be granted for a total period of six months. It is also important to note that 
within the mentioned guidance it states that: There is no expectation under this guidance 
that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that in May 2020, when Mr A informed Alphera of his financial difficulties, 
some of the above mentioned FCA guidance on Covid-19 had not yet been published or in 
force. But Ive considered that before, and after, the additional Covid-19 guidance was in 
force, there was other guidance such as the FCA  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), 
which say that firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, 
reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of 
payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. And from 
what Ive seen, it looks like Alphera was trying to help Mr A, by treating him with forbearance 
and due consideration. I say this because, when Mr A had difficulties making payments 
towards the finance agreement, they gave him an initial three-month payment deferral for 
May, June, and July 2020. I think this was a reasonable decision and in line with the 
guidance provided by the FCA. But Ive gone on to consider whether they shouldve done 
more when he asked for further help after those initial three-months. I can see that they also 
agreed to provide further help to Mr A, as they agreed to a further three-month payment 
deferral for the months of March, April, and May 2021 payments.
I think the FCA Covid-19 guidance, mentioned above, was intended for customers in 
situations like the one Mr A found himself in, and it was in force at the time. I think Alphera 
were right to agree a deferral for a total of six months, but I can see that Alphera took a May 
2021 payment. So, I dont think they treated Mr A fairly as they ended Mr As deferral period 
a month too early. This means that they didnt fully act in line with the guidance provided by 
the FCA. Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable that Alphera should treat the May 2021 
payment as a deferred payment. They should also remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr As credit file for this payment as well as for the other five deferred payments if this 
has not yet been done. Mr A said that because of Alphera taking this May 2021 payment, his 
bank account was overdrawn so he had to borrow money from family. So, Ive considered 
the impact this had on him, and I think Alphera should pay him some compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused. I will address how much compensations should be paid 
later on in this decision.Ive gone on to consider what shouldve happened after May 2021, when the payment 
deferral wouldve ended. From the account statements provided by Alphera I can see that Mr 
A didnt make any further payments, so I think most likely he was still facing financial 
difficulties at that time. The FCA expected firms to offer tailored support to customers who 
were still facing financial difficulties after taking out the maximum six-month payment 
deferrals. The Tailored Support Guidance, issued by the FCA in January 2021, which 
originally came into force in October 2020 and was updated in November 2020, indicated 
that the FCA expected firms to be flexible and employ a range of short-term and long-term 
forbearance options. 
I can see Alphera kept sending arrears letters to Mr A in the period of June 2021 to April 
2022, followed by a notice of default letter in April 2022. The correspondence asked Mr A to 
contact Alphera to discuss his situation, if he was having difficulties making his payments. 
From the evidence available, I can see that during this 10 month plus period, from June 
2021 to April 2022, Mr A only sent one email to Alphera in September 2021. I can also see 
that Alphera called and emailed him following this and requested that he make contact with 
them. But I cant see that Mr A made any contact until May 2022, which was after he 
received the letter saying his agreement was terminated. Also, Mr A made no further 
payments towards his agreement and, as arrears continued to accrue, Alphera continued to 
send arrears letters to him. 
I know that Mr A said at times it would take him over 30 minutes of being on hold on the 
phone before he was able to reach anyone at Alphera, and he said that had they answered 
his calls in February and March 2022 a payment plan would have been in place. He has also 
told us that he was busy dealing with personal issues surrounding one of this family 
members and focusing on his job. So Ive taken all of this into consideration, and I 
sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he was experiencing. I think it wouldve been 
good to have seen Alphera answer their calls quicker, but Im mindful that this difficulty was 
against the backdrop of an unprecedented global pandemic which would have also impacted 
their ability to provide their usual level of service. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr A to make more attempts at contacting Alphera than he did. Overall, I think Alphera did 
try to work with and to get in contact with Mr A to discuss provision of tailored support to him. 
But he didnt make any payments towards the credit agreement for over 10 months. Its also 
not unreasonable for Alphera to report any missed payments to credit reference agencies, 
except for the deferral months of May, June, July 2020 and for the March, April, May 2021 
payments, as Alphera has a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference 
agencies.
Ive also considered whether it was right for Alphera to terminate Mr As credit agreement. I 
can see that Mr As financial difficulties lasted longer than six months and that he hasnt 
made any payments towards the finance agreement since June 2021. So, a large number of 
arrears had accrued, and, like I mentioned above, Mr A shouldve made more of an attempt 
at contacting Alphera. Alphera sent Mr A a default notice on 13 April 2022, which set out the 
arrears on the account and explained what would happen if he didnt act on the state of the 
account. So, I think the correspondence Mr A received from Alphera gave him enough 
information to understand that Alphera could terminate his finance agreement and repossess 
the car, had he made no contact or payments towards the credit agreement. As no 
resolution or arrangement was agreed by the set date in the default notice, I dont think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Alphera to allow further arrears to accrue. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Alphera to terminate the agreement when they did in May 2022. I think 
Alphera were patient with Mr A while they waited to see if his circumstances would change. 
Also, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Alphera to allow the arrears to increase 
indefinitely, so I think their decision to terminate the contract was a reasonable one. They 
also acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr A credit agreement. Mr A said that he received the default notice and the termination letter but both on the same 
day. He said, had he received the default notice earlier, he wouldve definitely made contact 
with them. Alphera provided our service with a copy of the default notice letter they issued to 
Mr A, which I can see is dated 13 April 2022. Also, from their contact notes it seems that, 
most likely, this letter was dispatched on that date. So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that this was posted to Mr A at that time. It may be that he has 
not received this correspondence earlier due to issues with the post. While its very 
unfortunate when things get delayed in the post, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold 
Alphera responsible for that. Its not something over which they have any control.
I note that Alphera also indicated that they terminated the credit agreement because the car 
was registered to a third party which they said was a breach of the terms and conditions of 
the agreement, in addition to the breach caused by the outstanding arrears. But I dont need 
to consider this aspect as I have already decided that I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
them to terminate the agreement when they did in May 2022, based on the accrued arrears 
on the account to that date. 
Mr A has referred to negative comments made online by other customers of Alphera and 
said that these should be taken into account. But we consider each complaint on its own 
individual merits, and I dont think it would be fair to draw negative inference from the 
experiences that others may have had in different circumstances. Mr A has also questioned 
whether we have had similar complaints regarding Alphera at our service. But as our service 
provides an informal dispute resolution route, our decisions dont create binding precedents. 
Whilst there may be similarities between complaints, all complaints are considered on their 
individual facts and merits. Here, I make my decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable considering all the circumstances of this particular complaint.
Mr A said that Alphera was initially reporting incorrect information to the credit reference 
agencies as they were reporting his deferred payments as late on his credit file. I understand 
that Mr As credit file has now been amended, but Mr A said that at that time this prevented 
him from getting any other form of finance. So, Ive considered this, but Ive not seen enough 
evidence for me to conclude that Alpheras reporting of adverse information on Mr As credit 
file was most likely the reason for Mr A directly incurring a loss. From the available evidence, 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on his credit file 
was why he couldnt obtain credit. So, I cant say that most likely its Alpheras action that 
directly caused him a financial detriment. But Ive considered that contacting Alphera on 
numerous occasions about the negative information on his credit file has understandably 
caused Mr A a degree of inconvenience and stress while trying to sort out this issue. And 
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience that was caused to Mr A when Alphera 
incorrectly took the May 2021 payment causing his bank account to go overdrawn. So 
overall, I think they should pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience that all of the 
above has caused him. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited  trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to: 
1) Treat the May 2021 payment as deferred; 
2) Remove any adverse information recorded on his credit file for the duration of the 
deferral monthly payments in May, June, July 2020 and March, April, May 2021;
3) Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 12 May 2023.Mr A responded and provided additional information for me to consider, so Ive considered 
his response and my comments are found below.
Alphera responded and said they have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A, in response to my provisional decision, provided a lot of points, so Ive taken 
everything into consideration but if theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. 
But Ive focussed on aspects that are central to me, reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. And this reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
After my provisional decision, Mr A reiterated that, at times, it would take him over 30, and 
sometimes even more than 40, minutes of being on hold on the phone before he was able to 
reach anyone at Alphera. He said that he also tried calling many times but, as the telephone 
is a tool to do his job, he couldnt be on hold for such long periods. He also said that when 
he spoke to someone in March 2022 to request a breakdown of payments, this wasnt sent 
to him. He said that he requested his payment history as he believed payments were not 
being assigned correctly and that he was waiting for this to arrive before calling back to 
agree a payment plan. Mr A said that he didnt send an email to chase this as he said history 
had taught him that Alphera doesnt respond to emails. So, he feels that he was not avoiding 
the issue as otherwise he wouldnt have called them when he received the default notice. He 
feels that, had Alphera been more responsive, he wouldnt be in the situation he is in now. 
As I already mentioned in my provisional decision, I think it wouldve been good to have 
seen Alphera answer their calls quicker, but this case was unfolding against the backdrop of 
an unprecedented global pandemic, which could have also impacted their ability to provide 
their usual level of service. And, I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr A to make 
more attempts at contacting Alphera than he did if he wanted to get a plan put in place. He 
didnt make any payments toward the credit agreement for over 10 months, besides the one 
small payment of around £54 made in March 2022. Since no payments were being made 
during the 10 months, arrears continued to accrue, so Alphera continued to send arrears 
letters to Mr A. These letters contained a breakdown of payments that were made and of 
ones that were missed. In addition, the letters contained opening and closing balances of his 
account. Furthermore, Mr A could view and manage his finance agreement online. I see this 
was explained to him on a couple of occasions. It was once explained to him in an email 
sent in October 2020, this email also contained a copy of his payment history, which was 
provided to him following a request he made.
In addition, Alphera was sending statements for his account with an approximate six-month 
frequency. So, from all this correspondence Mr A wouldve been aware of what was 
outstanding, and he wouldve been aware that his direct debits werent being collected. Also, 
considering the amount of arrears that had accrued, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable 
for Alphera to allow further arrears to accrue. Alpheras contact notes indicate that a 
payment history was sent to Mr A in March 2022, as requested. But even if it wasnt, I think 
most likely, Mr A was aware of the position of his account as arrears letters and statements 
were being sent to him. So, I dont think this prevented him from getting a plan put in place. 
Also, during the March 2022 call, Mr A was advised to contact his bank to get the direct 
debits reinstated, but I can see that the direct debit for March and April 2022 payments were 
returned unpaid. So I think, most likely, Mr As financial situation hasnt improved by that time, or he didnt intend on putting a plan in place. And, like I already mentioned, I dont think 
it wouldve been reasonable for Alphera to allow further arrears to accrue. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr A said that when he contacted Alphera in 
November 2020, he was given an incorrect outstanding arrears figure. He said that had they 
provided him with the correct amount at the time, he couldve paid it and he wouldnt now 
owe as much. From the contact notes, I can see that Mr A did request this figure at that time, 
but the notes dont say what actual number was provided. However, in October 2020 Mr A 
was sent his payment history and he was also being sent the arrears letters mentioned 
above, so I think had an incorrect figure been provided he wouldve questioned it at the time. 
Also, three months later he was sent another statement allowing him to notice any incorrect 
figures he could have been quoted, and he could have addressed this when he called 
Alphera to request a payment deferral in February 2021.   
Mr A is still unhappy that Alphera was initially reporting incorrect information to the credit 
reference agencies as they were reporting his deferred payments as late on his credit file. I 
believe Mr A when he tells us this but, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr As 
credit file has now been amended. Also, I know that Mr A is unhappy because he said that at 
the time, this prevented him from getting any other form of finance. However, Ive not seen 
enough evidence for me to conclude that Alpheras reporting of adverse information on Mr 
As credit file was most likely the reason for Mr A directly incurring a loss. This is because I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on his credit file was 
why he couldnt obtain credit which, most likely, directly caused him a financial detriment. 
And Ive already taken into consideration the inconvenience this had caused him when 
thinking how much Alphera should pay him for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr A said that the registration of the car not being in his name was not something he was 
aware of at all, so he doesnt believe this should have been used as leverage to terminate 
his finance agreement. But, as per my provisional decision, I dont need to consider this 
aspect as I have already decided that I didnt think it was unreasonable for Alphera to 
terminate the agreement when they did in May 2022, based on the accrued arrears on the 
account to that date.
Mr A has pointed out some discrepancies with the final response letter he received from 
Alphera and questioned how their incorrect application of the deferrals affected his 
agreement with them. But, as per my provisional decision, I have already indicated that 
Alphera should treat the May 2021 payment as deferred and Ive also asked them to remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file for the duration of the deferred 
monthly payments for May, June, July 2020 as well as for March, April, May 2021. 
Mr A mentioned that when he applied for the payment deferrals, he didnt realise this was 
going to increase his monthly payments significantly. But I can see that he was sent a 
Payment Deferral and Advance Notice of Direct Debit letter which explained in detail how the 
deferrals would work. Also, if the payments werent affordable, he couldve raised this with 
Alphera at the time.
Mr A also thinks that the default notice letter shouldve been sent by signed-for post, but I 
cant hold Alphera to such a standard as it is not a legal requirement. 
Mr A said that an email he sent on the 8 February 2021, where he mentions that Alphera 
destroyed his credit rating and stopped him from getting any sort of finance, should be taken 
as evidence that this prevented him from getting any other form of finance. But this is not 
enough evidence for me to conclude that Alpheras reporting of adverse information on Mr 
As credit file was most likely the reason for Mr A directly incurring a loss. And, I havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file was why 
he couldnt obtain credit.
Also, as I dont think Alphera registered the default on Mr As credit file unfairly, I cant hold 
them responsible for the fact the Mr A couldnt get the job he was shortlisted for.
So overall while I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing, I think the 
proposed resolution in my provisional decision is still fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and as outlined in my provisional decision, I require BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to: 
1) Treat the May 2021 payment as deferred; 
2) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file for the duration of the 
deferral monthly payments in May, June, July 2020 and March, April, May 2021;
3) Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman