DRN-3535278
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited is holding him responsible for a credit card account that 
he says he never applied for.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Mr R says he has been the victim of identity 
theft. A credit card was taken out in his name and used for spending.
Mr R told us hes often away from home as he works in the army. Mr R told us he always 
keeps his own current account card with him - even when he is away - and it is usually 
locked in a locker. He told us no one else knows his current account or log in details.
Mr R also explained that he had other credit taken out in his name during the same period
with other businesses, and that all of these accounts have been closed and balances written 
off. Mr R initially told MBNA and us that his sister and mother had taken out the card but 
later said he wasnt sure who it was  but he says it wasnt him.
MBNA believes the card and disputed transactions were completed by Mr R himself or 
someone with his authority.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt it was more likely than not that Mr R is 
the owner of the credit card as there are a lot of similarities between this disputed account 
and his own current account.
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr R wanted this service to obtain his records to prove he wasnt in the various 
locations. But even if it can be demonstrated he was abroad when some of the transactions 
took place, it still doesnt prove that the credit card wasnt taken out without Mr Rs 
knowledge or consent. And on balance I think the credit card was taken out with Mr Rs 
knowledge or consent. I say this for the following reasons:
On 15 January 2016 a money transfer of £350 was made from the credit card to Mr 
Rs genuine current account. I think its more likely than not that Mr R would have (or 
he ought reasonably to have) noticed this sum and if he hadnt known about the card, 
raised the issue then.
Regular payments towards the card were also made from Mr Rs current account in 
2016. Whilst Mr R now says he didnt make these, hes given no plausible 
explanation as how someone else would make those payments from his current 
account. Again, I think Mr R ought reasonably to have noticed the activity on his 
current account and if he thought it was fraudulent ought to have reported it at the 
time. Mr R has not provided us with any plausible scenario whereby someone else, 
either known or unknown to him, couldve gained access to his current account card 
or details in order to make such a payment.
A bill payment was made on 10 June 2016 from the credit card which resembles bill 
payments being made from Mr Rs current account in the months that followed.
The credit card was cleared in March 2017 and not used again until July 2017, which 
doesnt normally happen with a fraudulent account.
The activity on the disputed account, is very similar to Mr Rs genuine activity on his 
current account and doesnt match a pattern of fraud.
Mr Rs current contact number (and the one he is using as a contact with this service) 
has been on the credit card account since December 2019  six months before he 
first claimed the credit card was taken out fraudulently in June 2020. 
Other telephone numbers on Mr Rs MBNA credit card match telephone numbers in 
the history of his current account.
I dont have access to expert voice analysis, and whilst the voice on two of the calls sound 
different to Mr R,  I do think the other calls sound like the genuine Mr R who we have been 
dealing with. One of these calls is from the telephone number on the credit card application.
I appreciate there are some anomalies here. And I accept some of the details on the 
application dont appear to match Mr Rs and that Mr R may have been out of the country 
when the application was made. Overall, these anomalies are not enough to persuade me to 
reach a different conclusion. And whilst I acknowledge that there could be an explanation 
behind each of the points Ive discussed above, when they are all taken into consideration 
together and holistically, I dont believe the more likely explanation is that this credit card 
was taken out without Mr Rs knowledge or consent.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said that, because other businesses accepted he was the 
victim of identity theft, so should this service and MBNA. What Im dealing with here is a 
complaint against MBNA and whilst Mr R has provided evidence from these other 
businesses that debts have been written off  the evidence Ive examined (which those 
businesses may not have had access to) points to Mr R being more likely than not 
responsible for the original application and use of the account.
I accept that there is some evidence that other people were involved here. But what I cant 
safely conclude is that Mr R was completely unaware of the application and use of the 
account.Overall, I cant see how Mr Rs identity could have been separately stolen in all these 
circumstances to apply for a credit card he knew nothing about. Ive closely examined the 
information supplied by both parties and on balance, Im not persuaded that the account 
opened with MBNA was done without Mr Rs knowledge or consent. Ive taken into account 
what Mr R has said, but I think there are too many factors that link Mr R to this application 
and so he is fairly responsible for the account. And I dont think MBNA acted unfairly in 
expecting him to repay the money and contacting him about it. So, I know he will be 
disappointed when I say that I wont be asking MBNA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman