DRN-3965841
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the fact that Society of Lloyds (SOL) settled a claim by a third 
party against his policy in full as a fault claim against his wishes. 
Mr P is represented by Mrs V and the claim and complaint were dealt with by a syndicate at 
SOL. For the sake of ease I mainly referred to Mr P and SOL in this decision.
What happened
Mr P was involved in a collision with a third party vehicle in what he has described as a 
country lane. He called the number provided by his insurance broker to report the incident 
and spoke to the brokers claim handling agent, who Ill refer to as X. 
Mr P told X he was only reporting the incident and did not want to claim on his policy. X put 
the call through to SOL and told their claim handler this. Mr P provided details of the incident 
to the claim handler at SOL. The claim handler told him that liability was likely to be 50/50 at 
best, and that it would be noted as a claim. Mr P shared his understanding of 50/50 as each 
party or their insurer paying for the damage to their vehicle and said again he didnt want a 
claim against his policy. The handler told him he would log it as a claim and didnt comment 
specifically on the fact Mr P had said he didnt want a claim against his policy. 
Mr P later found out that SOL had paid £3,792.24 for the repairs to the other vehicle. He 
complained about this and the fact that SOL had not contacted him about the third partys 
claim. SOL said they were entitled to settle the claim, but accepted they should have told Mr 
P theyd done so. They offered him £50 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of them not doing so.
 
Mr P wasnt happy about this and complained to us. He said hed made it clear from the 
outset he didnt want to claim and the calls he made to report the incident proved this. He 
said if hed known the third party was going to claim under his policy, hed have contacted 
him and agreed to pay for the repairs to his car. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. She said that under the terms of Mr 
Ps policy SOL were entitled to settle the third party claim, so they hadnt done anything 
wrong in doing so. And she said the £50 they paid in compensation for not telling him about 
it was sufficient. 
Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Whilst he accepts the policy terms gave SOL the right to settle claims against his policy, his 
view is they should only do so if it is appropriate and theyve properly investigated the 
matter. As far as he is concerned it was not appropriate for SOL to settle the third party claim 
against him, as he had said to them he didnt want to claim. 
The complaint came to me and I spoke at some length to Mr Ps representative and followed 
this up with two emails. I explained that I agreed SOL shouldnt have simply contacted the 
third party and offered to pay for the repairs to their car. And that  instead  they should 
have left it and waited to see if the third party made a claim. And then  if he had done so, 
they should have let Mr P know. I asked Mr Ps representative to provide evidence that the 
third party would have been willing to settle direct, along with evidence showing what this 
would have cost. She has now provided evidence that it would probably have cost a lot less 
than SOL paid to their repairer to complete the repairs to Mr Ps car. But she hasnt been 
able to provide confirmation from the third party that he would have been happy to have his 
car repaired by the repairer Mr P was suggesting.
I also put it to SOL that they should have followed the process Ive set out above instead of 
contacting the third party. Theyve responded to say that Mr P reported the claim to his 
broker and re-iterated their view that settling the third party claim to minimise the cost of 
doing so was the right thing to do. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ps policy did give SOL the right to handle claims against him as they felt 
appropriate. But  in my opinion  it is good industry practice for any insurer exercising this 
right to act reasonably when doing so and consider the wishes of their customer. In this 
case, despite what SOL have said, it is clear that Mr Ps broker put him through to SOL and 
he explained very clearly to SOLs claim handler that he was reporting the incident, but didnt 
want to make a claim. With this in mind, it remains my view that SOL shouldnt have 
proactively contacted the third party to offer to deal with his claim. I say this because in doing 
so they completely ignored the wishes of their customer and I do not consider this was 
reasonable. I do of course appreciate they wanted to minimise the cost of any claim. But this 
should not have been put above providing a reasonable service to their customer. 
If SOL hadnt contacted the third party Mr P may have been able to arrange for his car to be 
repaired and paid for this. However, Mr Ps representative hasnt been able to get the third 
party to confirm that he would have been happy with this option. And, bearing in mind he 
was a taxi driver with a commercial vehicle, without his confirmation, I do not think I can say 
it is most likely he would have agreed to this. Therefore, whilst I can appreciate Mr Ps 
frustration, based on the evidence I have, I dont consider it would be appropriate for me to 
make SOL alter the record of the claim against him. This is because if the third party had 
decided not to accept Mr Ps offer to arrange the repairs to his car and claimed against Mr 
Ps policy instead, SOL would most likely have had to settle his claim either in full or on a 
50/50 basis. And this would have resulted in a fault claim on Mr Ps record. 
However, I do think that the inappropriate way in which the whole matter was handled by 
SOL caused Mr P a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And I dont think the £50 they 
offered him in compensation for this is sufficient. I consider £200 in total is appropriate. If 
SOL have already paid the £50 they offered, then they will only need to pay Mr P a further 
£150.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ps 
complaint is for SOL to pay him a total of £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds 
of London and order them to pay him a £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience in total. If they have already paid him £50, then I only require them to pay him 
a further £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman