DRN-3542108
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc credited funds to a savings account instead of to 
her Help to Buy ISA. Bank of Scotland was operating in this case under its Halifax brand.
What happened
In January 2016 Miss P opened a Help to Buy ISA with Halifax. Under the Help to Buy 
scheme a customer can pay up to £200 a month into the account (£1,200 in the first month). 
If and when the funds in the account are used to buy a first property, the government will 
provide a top up of 25%, up to a maximum of £3,000.
The banks records show that, shortly after Miss P had opened the ISA, an instant savings 
account was also opened in her name.
On 9 February 2016 the savings account was credited with £1,000. After that, £200 a month 
was paid into it, until the balance was over £14,000. 
It was not until 2021 that Miss P noticed that the balance on her ISA was nil, while £200 had 
been paid into her savings account every month for over five years. 
Halifax reviewed what had happened but said that it was not responsible for the payments 
being made to the savings account, rather than to the ISA. They had been made by standing 
order from Miss Ps account with a different institution, so she must have provided that 
institution with the account details. 
Miss P said she believed she had set up the standing order in a branch of Halifax, so it was 
responsible for any error. Halifax did not agree, although it did acknowledge that it had been 
slow in dealing with Miss Ps complaint; it paid her £25 in recognition of that. 
Miss P referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator noted however that Miss P had been provided with the correct account details 
for the ISA and that the savings account had been opened and the first payment made 
outside normal banking hours  indicating that Miss P had opened the account online. 
Miss P did not accept the investigators initial assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Miss P intended to fund the ISA, not a savings account. The payments made to 
the savings account are entirely consistent with that intention and suggest that Miss P 
planned to make the maximum payments allowed under the Help to Buy scheme. And it is 
not clear why Miss P would open a Help to Buy ISA unless she intended to fund it with 
regular payments. 
However, I agree with the investigators assessment that Halifax was not responsible for any 
error in the payments made. They were made by standing order. That is, instructions were 
given to the paying institution to make the payments. Only Miss P could have done that. I 
think it likely too that the savings account was opened online and that the standing order was 
set up online. The records that Halifax has provided indicate that the account was opened 
just after 9pm and that the first payment was made a few minutes later. Those actions could 
not have taken place in a branch. 
It does not appear either that Halifax provided Miss P with incorrect account details. It sent 
Miss P a confirmation that the account had been set up and provided the correct account 
information, before the savings account was opened. 
Miss P has my sympathy. Its clear in my view that she intended to fund the Help to Buy ISA 
and that its likely she has lost out because the savings account was funded instead. 
However, for the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that was the fault of Halifax.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman