DRN-4242409
The complaint
Mr K complains Creation Financial Services Limited (CFS) closed his credit card account, 
and in doing so failed to: refund his annual account fee; provide a hotel voucher for a free 
night stay; and to transfer his reward points to the scheme operator.   
What happened
In December 2021, following a review, CFS decided to close Mr Ks credit card account. 
Mr Ks CFS credit card account included a rewards scheme which allowed him to 
accumulate points onto a separate account which could be redeemed against hotel costs.  
The card also awarded a free one night stay once a certain amount had been spent on the 
account. 
Unhappy with CFS actions, Mr K complained. As he didnt hear from CFS after a reasonable 
time had passed, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. 
CFS then sent Mr K a final response to his complaint. In summary, it said: 
- Under its terms, CFS can close the account without explanation by giving two months 
notice  
- The terms and conditions also say any reward benefits relating to the hotel scheme may 
be added or removed at any time without notice to the cardholder 
- The £99 annual fee applied in July 2021 will not be refunded to Mr K 
- Reward points ceased being transferred to the scheme operators account after Mr K 
was issued notice of his account closure. So CFS will no longer be honouring the 
associated reward benefits 
Mr K remained unhappy. Later, through this service, CFS made him an offer to (a) refund 
the account fee on a pro-rata basis; and (b) transfer the outstanding reward points to the 
scheme operators account; and (c) grant the free night stay voucher if Mr K was eligible. 
Mr K said he would accept this if CFS confirmed he was eligible for the night stay voucher. 
Mr K received his voucher and the transfer of any accumulated reward points. But he didnt 
receive the pro-rata refund. CFS explained it hadnt sent the pro-rata refund of £62.65 as it 
had not known whether Mr K accepted its offer.  
Our Investigator then sent their assessment on Mr Ks complaint. They said CFS had acted 
in line with its obligations when closing the account, but it had caused delays in releasing 
the reward points, voucher and annual fee refund. So they recommended CFS refund the 
pro-rata annual fee and pay Mr K £150 compensation. 
CFS did not agree with what our Investigator said, but Mr K did. Our Investigator then asked 
Mr K what impact CFS actions had on him. In summary Mr K said: 
- Compensation was suggested by the Investigator. Mr K believes it was awarded due to 
the time, stress, loss of opportunity, and interest relating to delay 
- Mr K had to spend a lot of time chasing CFS to honour its terms and conditions, and 
having to refer his complaint to this service 
Our Investigator then sent both parties their revised assessment. In short, they said: 
- CFS should pay Mr K his pro-rata refund for the annual fee which is £62.65
- But CFS does not need to pay £150 compensation. Having thought about the impact 
CFS error had on Mr K, not having access to his reward points wasnt significant 
enough to award compensation 
- And having considered Mr Ks argument that he has had to pursue the complaint with 
CFS and later with us, this isnt something significant enough to award compensation for 
Mr K maintained that compensation is paid by CFS for the inconvenience it caused him. As 
Mr K didnt agree with what our Investigator said in their latest assessment, this complaint 
has now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
CFS is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before CFS closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which CFS and Mr K had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. I note CFS say it gave 
Mr K two months notice. In his submissions, Mr K accepts this and says he isnt complaining 
about the closure.  So Im satisfied CFS has applied its terms fairly. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mr Ks complaint, that is, CFS failed to refund his annual 
account fee, not provide his hotel voucher for a free night stay and failed to transfer his 
reward points to the scheme operator. 
CFS has already transferred Mr Ks reward points and given him hotel stay voucher after he 
had accepted its offer. So I dont need to comment on these points anymore. But CFS say its 
hasnt sent Mr K his pro-rata refund of the annual fee because it had not known whether he 
had accepted this. Mr K had told us he had. 
Given Mr K did not derive an annual benefit from his credit card account, Im satisfied its fair 
CFS refund him this on a pro-rata basis. I understand this amount to be £62.65. 
Mr K was prepared to accept CFS offer as a fair resolution to his complaint, but now feels 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him is warranted. Our 
Investigator initially agreed, but after weighing up the impact CFS actions have had, they 
changed their position on this. 
To fairly and reasonable determine this point, I need to make it clear that I think CFS acted 
fairly in closing the credit card account. But it didnt act fairly by not refunding the account fee on a pro-rata basis, transferring the reward points, and granting the hotel stay voucher. 
Something it later agreed to do. 
So I need to think what distress and inconvenience this caused Mr K. I havent seen 
compelling evidence which shows being without this money caused Mr K sufficient distress 
or inconvenience to the extent that I think a monetary award is merited. 
I agree Mr K had to complain and then refer it to this service, but that in of itself isnt enough 
for me to award compensation. I do apologise however that our Investigator initially said an 
award was warranted only to later look into this matter properly and change their mind.
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, I note Mr K asked to be compensated interest 
relating to any delay. But to award such interest, Id need to be satisfied Mr Ks has lost out 
by not having the refund returned sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. 
Therefore I wont be awarding any interest.
Putting things right
To put things right, CFS should refund Mr K the annual fee on a pro-rata basis up until he 
stopped having use of the account. I understand this amount to be £62.65
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Creation Financial 
Services Limited to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman