DRN-4071963
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding a direct debit (DD) instruction on his account.
What happened
Mr Ds DD instruction to Barclays went unpaid in October 2022. Mr D felt there was no 
reason the DD shouldnt have been paid and felt that it had been an error or mistake by 
Barclays which had caused the non-payment. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr D and explained that they hadnt been able to determine why the 
DD had failed but that no adverse reporting had been made by them in regard to the unpaid 
DD. Barclays also apologised to Mr D for the poor service hed received when hed brought 
his concerns about the matter to them and made a payment of £50 to Mr D as compensation 
for any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays 
response and wanted Barclays to delete the Barclays system entry and statement entry 
relating to the missed DD. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was more likely than not 
that Barclays had been responsible for the DD not being taken correctly, and so they 
recommended that Barclays should make a further payment of £100 to Mr D to fairly 
compensate him for the trouble hed incurred. However, our investigator felt that because the 
DD had been missed  regardless of whose fault that was  the system and statement 
entries were correct and so shouldnt be amended. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted the recommendation put forwards by our investigator that they 
should pay a further £100 to Mr L to fairly compensate him for the trouble and upset hes 
incurred here. And I can also confirm that this further compensation amount feels fair to me, 
given whats happened here. 
But Mr D isnt happy that Barclays arent being instructed by this service to amend the 
system entry and statement entry relating to the missed DD  which he feels may be viewed 
negatively by Barclays when considering potential future lending requests from him  and 
feels that because the missed DD is considered to have most likely occurred because of 
some action or inaction of Barclays that the entries should be amended. 
I can appreciate Mr Ds concerns here. However, regardless of who was at fault, the DD 
payment was missed, and so Im satisfied that the system and statement entries which 
declare this are correct. And Im similarly satisfied that instructing Barclays to amend these 
entries would mean instructing Barclays to change correct and accurate entries to incorrect 
and inaccurate ones  which is not something I would reasonably consider instructing. 
Additionally, Barclays have confirmed that they havent recorded any adverse information 
about the missed DD which would be considered by them regarding any potential future 
lending requests Mr D might make. 
As such, Im satisfied both that the system and statement entries accurately record what 
happened  as would be expected  and also that theres no potential ongoing adverse 
impact to Mr D  as a result of the corrective steps that Barclays have already taken. And so, 
I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £100 to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman