DRN-3725232
The complaint
Mr E complained that he didnt get the money from an attempted transfer into his account
with Santander UK Plc. He accepted hed made a mistake with the account number, but was
frustrated at what he saw as Santanders refusal to help.
What happened
Mr E told us a close relative had sadly passed away, and in August 2021 he asked that
relatives overseas bank to transfer just under £5,500 to his account. He provided that
overseas bank with the details of his account, held with Santander.
Mr E accepted hed got the account number wrong. He said his mistake was just because of
grief at the time. But he had then realised the mistake, and contacted Santander. He said it
told him the sending bank had to request a return of the funds. But although the sending
bank did that, Santander just told it the money had been paid into the account number Mr E
had given it, that person had refused to give the money back, and nothing could be done.
Mr E said the account number that Santander had paid the money to didnt match his name
or details, which were also included with the transfer request. He said the money was
needed to pay for funeral expenses, and it was deeply distressing that someone else had
kept it. Mr E sent us all the communications hed had with the sending bank, showing the
efforts it had made to get the money back for him. He wanted us to help.
Santander didnt think that what had gone wrong here was its fault. It said it had tried to
contact the person whod received the money by mistake, but without success. It didnt think
there was any more it could do to help Mr E.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ive not set out his reasoning
here, or detailed the discussions that then took place between him and Mr E, both because
the situation has changed since, and because I have taken a different view of this complaint.
Mr E wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr E had focussed on what Santander did when he had realised his mistake. But I 
thought things went wrong before this.
International payments like this one are made through a system called SWIFT, which 
passes messages between banks. Unfortunately, its not unheard of for errors to creep 
in to transfers like this one. However, its my understanding that there is scope in the 
SWIFT system for the receiving bank to check the recipients name and account details 
before making the payment. If an error is identified then either the information can be 
repaired (by a message correcting the details, like the one the sending bank issued in 
this case) or the payment can be returned to the sending bank.
So I asked Santander why it had credited this payment to an account number which 
didnt match the account name on the SWIFT message. Santander replied by changing 
its stance on this complaint. It offered to pay the money back to the sending bank.
Whilst Santander certainly isnt responsible for the mistake about Mr Es account details, 
I dont think Santander did need to credit the wrong account with these funds. So I think 
that Santander is responsible for the fact that funds which reached it in August 2021 
were then credited to the wrong account.
I do think Santander made some efforts to help Mr E, because I can see it did try to 
contact the person who received the money in error. But it also appears to have treated 
this as if it was a payment originating in the UK. And it gave Mr E advice about what had 
gone wrong and how to retrieve his money, which also appears to me to have been 
based on payments originating within the UK. This was always an international 
payment. So I think Santander has also prolonged this problem for Mr E, by failing to 
recognise its own responsibilities in this case, earlier than it did.
I replied to Santanders offer to return the money to the sending bank, saying I thought it 
was likely that the account held by Mr Es late relative would now be closed. And I noted 
that Santander had received a repair message from the sending bank, so already had 
authority to amend the account details on the payment it held. I asked Santander if it 
could just action that repair message, and credit Mr Es account.
Santander didnt reply to that question. And it did send the money back to the sending 
bank. Although Santander repeatedly told our service that delays in resolving this issue 
after the funds were returned to the sending bank were all caused by that sending bank, 
it hasnt explained why it needed to take the step of returning the money in the first 
place, rather than simply crediting Mr Es account. I think Santander then caused further 
delays for Mr E.
I am very pleased indeed to be able to say that Mr E has now received the bulk of his 
money. And he has been able to pass funds to the relative who paid for the funeral, who 
has been waiting to be reimbursed. (Mr E has told us that £15 has been deducted at 
some stage. It isnt clear when or which bank made this deduction, but in the light of 
how long this case has already taken, I wont delay further by seeking to investigate 
this.)
So, in summary, I think that Santander does carry responsibility for this payment actually 
being credited to the wrong account, instead of this mistake being caught at that stage. 
It also carries responsibility for not identifying its own error earlier, as well as for further 
delays when it passed the payment back to the sending bank rather than just crediting 
Mr Es account. This has meant that a payment Mr E attempted in August 2021 finally 
arrived in his account in September 2022. This has caused Mr E considerable distress, 
and a substantial amount of inconvenience. In these circumstances, I think that 
Santander should pay Mr E £1,000 in compensation.
For completeness, I note that Mr E has also made a complaint against the sending 
bank. I understand that has now been finally resolved, and a small payment made to Mr 
E, which is expressly and solely in reflection of the false hope that he was given by the 
sending bank that his money might be recovered by it. I do not consider that this award 
overlaps with my decision here.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said he fully accepted my report and provisional decision. He noted that Santander had 
changed its stance about the SWIFT transaction. He stressed that Santander had told him 
the onus for any checks was entirely on the sending bank and it was not obliged to perform 
any checks at all. He said Santander also told him the sending bank should have used a 
Confirmation Of Payee system, so hed felt the sending bank was responsible for what went 
wrong. I noted in my provisional decision that Santander appeared to have handled this 
complaint as if it was a domestic payment, and had advised Mr E on this basis.
Mr E thanked us again for our work on this case. 
Santander replied to say it was taking ownership for its share of the issues here. It said that, 
considering the amount of time it had taken for this issue to be resolved, as well as the sad 
circumstances forming the background to this complaint, it would agree to pay £1,000.
Neither side has offered further evidence in this case, and I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr E £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman