DRN-2667207
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by his wife Miss K, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Our investigator has given a comprehensive view of this complaint and having reviewed the 
evidence presented by both parties I am not persuaded that there are grounds which would 
allow me to uphold it. 
For me to uphold the complaint I would have to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for 
purpose. There are two issues which Mr A has raised, the sound made when the car goes 
over a bump and the leather on the seat(s). 
Dealing with the former first our investigator has set out the professional view of the 
characteristics of this model and the sound it makes when going over bumps. The 
consensus view of the DVSA, the Motor Ombudsman and an independent inspector is that 
the sound is not a fault, but rather it is a characteristic of this model. Our investigator has 
already set out these findings in some detail and I wont repeat them here. While I appreciate 
Miss K has said that the sound is embarrassing it would appear that it is not a fault.
I have referred to the above professional opinions as we do not have an independent report 
into Mr As car and these give us some indication of the problem. I note that the 
manufacturer has developed a fix for this issue and this has been applied to Mr As car. Miss 
K has told us that it still makes a noise. The dealer has said that it retained the car for five 
weeks to ensure the fix had worked. 
I am aware that Miss K, who normally drives the car, says it has affected her use, but I see 
that the MOT dated 29 December 2020 shows it has covered 29,575 miles, which is a 
reasonable mileage after just under three years. I note that the MOT carries an advisory 
which states that the front tyres are worn on the edges. Miss K says that this has been 
caused by the same fault which causes the banging sound and she may be correct, but I 
have seen no independent evidence to support that claim. 
I appreciate Miss K has said she drew the dealers attention to the sound not long after Mr A 
acquired the car in February 2018. I have noted an email exchange with the dealer in April 
2019 when she was looking to change the car which refer to her concerns. I have also 
reviewed the job sheets provided by the dealer alongside the history of event complied by 
MBFS which suggest the issue did not arise immediately. I have no reason to doubt that 
Miss K did bring it to the attention the dealer early on, but that alone does not make the car 
unfit for purpose.
Overall, based on the evidence I have been given I cannot conclude that the car wasnt fit for 
purpose, even with the tyre skipping issue.
On the matter of the seat I have noted the small area that is damaged and I cannot say that 
has been caused by undue wear and tear or that it resulted from some inherent fault. The 
dealer has said it believes it was caused by some external influence and that meant it wasnt 
covered under the warranty. I have noted Miss K has mentioned wider wear and tear of the 
leather, but again I have seen no evidence of this.
She has said the dealer agreed to repair the leather, but the emails she has shared do not 
support that conclusion. The dealer simply offered to refer the matter to the service 
department. 
I appreciate Mr A and Miss K will be disappointed with my decision I do not consider I can 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman