DRN-1805652
 
The complaint
Mrs C feels British Gas Insurance Limited could have taken further action to stop a leak 
occurring at her property, under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In April 2019 British Gas attended Mrs Cs property, in relation to a problem with a radiator 
valve. British Gas fixed this. And during the visit it noted there was a cylinder at the property 
that was corroded. It ordered a new cylinder and booked in to replace this a week later.
During the intervening week the cylinder burst and caused damage to Mrs Cs home. She 
contacted British Gas, and it booked to replace the cylinder earlier than originally planned. At 
this time Mrs C also highlighted she was unhappy with the level of service she had been 
provided with. She said she was told by the engineer at the time of their initial visit that the 
cylinder should be fine for a week  whilst Mrs C was waiting for it to be replaced. But it 
hadnt been fine, and her property was now damaged. She considered that British Gas 
should have taken further action initially. And she felt that if it had, the damage to her home 
would never have happened.
Mrs C said she had needed to make a claim under her buildings insurance policy to get the 
relevant damage fixed  and had to pay an excess of £650 for this. So, she felt British Gas 
should pay her an amount of £650 to ensure she hadnt suffered a financial loss.
British Gas didnt agree. It offered Mrs C an amount of £100 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill  for the multiple appointments that had been necessary. But it didnt think it should 
pay Mrs C the £650 mentioned above. It felt it had identified a problem with the cylinder and 
acted reasonably to resolve this. And it said it had advised Mrs C that the system should be 
drained, whilst she was waiting for the cylinder to be replaced - rather than saying it would 
be fine for a week. But that Mrs C didnt agree for the draining to be done. 
Because Mrs C remained unhappy with British Gas position, she referred her complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that she couldnt be sure 
what had been said during the engineers visit to Mrs Cs property. But she felt it was more 
likely than not the engineer hadnt given information to Mrs C about draining the system.
She said if this information had been given, she thought it would be detailed on the job sheet 
completed by the engineer  given it was important information. She thought it was likely 
British Gas failed to take reasonable precautionary action to remedy the problem as soon as 
it should have. And because damage had happened to Mrs Cs property as a result, she felt 
it would be reasonable for British Gas to pay Mrs C the £650 excess she had needed to pay 
her buildings insurer.  British Gas didnt agree. It said it hadnt been called out to look at the cylinder  but a 
problem with the radiator valve. However, it had noticed the issue with the cylinder, and 
acted to ensure this would be repaired. It explained that if it hadnt gone out to repair the 
radiator valve, the problem with the cylinder would have gone unnoticed  and the damage 
to Mrs Cs home would have happened anyway. 
British Gas also reiterated its position that at the time of its initial visit it had told Mrs C the 
cylinder should be made safe, and the system drained. But that Mrs C hadnt agreed to this. 
So, it didnt do it. And that the engineer couldnt have foreseen that the cylinder would burst 
and cause damage to the property. 
Lastly, British Gas said the damage to Mrs Cs property was consequential, and therefore 
not covered under the policy. 
Because British Gas didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
Neither party has disputed that repairing the cylinder is covered under Mrs Cs home 
emergency policy  regardless of what the initial call out to Mrs Cs home had been for. So, I 
havent needed to decide whether there is cover that applies to resolving the problem with 
the cylinder. 
But Mrs C says British Gas didnt do enough to sort the problem when this was first noticed. 
So, Ive needed to consider whether British Gas acted fairly when attending Mrs Cs property 
at first, or if it could have done more to assist Mrs C at that time.  
And based on the information Ive seen, I think British Gas, as Mrs Cs home emergency 
insurer, should have taken further steps to prevent the potential further damage to Mrs Cs 
property when it first identified the problem with the cylinder. 
British Gas has said the engineer couldnt have known the cylinder would burst within the 
week following their visit. And it was likely there had been a problem with it for some time. I 
understand this is likely to be the case  the engineer couldnt have known for sure what 
would happen before the cylinder was replaced. 
But as above, British Gas has said the right thing to do at the time would have been to drain 
the system. So, I think it follows that if British Gas are saying this would have been the 
correct action to take  it would have been aware there could have been a problem. As Mrs 
Cs home emergency insurer, I think it would be reasonable for it to take steps to prevent the 
potential further emergency where it knew this could occur. 
British Gas said it did recommend Mrs C took further steps. It said it recommended draining 
the system, but Mrs C said no. Mrs Cs recollections differ. She says she was told waiting a 
week would be fine, and then the cylinder could be replaced by the same engineer.
Im never going to know which version of events is the more accurate. But in instances like 
this, I need to decide what I think is more likely to be the case in the circumstances  
considering the information I do have. And based on the remaining evidence Im not persuaded British Gas did give clear information to Mrs C on how to prevent further damage 
 so that she could make an informed choice on what to do next.
Mrs C has a clear and detailed recollection of what happened during the conversation. She 
said the engineer had told her he would order a part and arrange for this to be fitted. He was 
on annual leave but could return in a week to fit the new cylinder. And when asked, the 
engineer said it would not be a problem to wait the week. Because she had experienced 
challenges with workmen in the past, she felt comfortable with waiting for the same person 
to complete the job, based on the information given to her. The file provided to me does 
suggest the engineer was on annual leave. And an appointment was booked for the next 
week. So, this seems consistent with the conversation Mrs C remembers.
 Ive also seen the job sheet completed at the time of the engineers visit. The job sheet 
doesnt give any information about advising the system be drained. British Gas says it didnt 
need to write the information about draining the system on the job sheet  because there 
wasnt a risk to safety. But if British Gas engineer had advised this course of action, and this 
was refused by Mrs C, I would have expected this to be detailed. It does seem an important 
piece of information about the content of the visit  particularly given the potential for further 
damage to occur. 
Based on the above, I think its more likely Mrs C wasnt asked about draining the system. 
And I think it would have been reasonable for British Gas to have suggested this, given the 
above information that this would have been the right thing to do at the time.
Because I think its more likely the engineer didnt take these further steps  such as 
recommending the system was drained, Im satisfied it should pay Mrs C the amount of 
£650, to cover the excess she has needed to pay her buildings insurer. I think this is fair 
because had British Gas taken the above steps, it seems likely the further damage wouldnt 
have happened.
British Gas has offered Mrs C £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill, for multiple visits 
to her property. And it sent her a cheque for this amount. Neither party has disputed this 
element of the complaint. And this amount is separate to the £650 financial loss Mrs C 
suffered. So, I havent considered this amount. And it isnt part of the award Im requiring 
British Gas to pay.
I require British Gas to pay Mrs C a further £650, for the financial loss suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs C an amount of £650.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman