DRN-2183122
The complaint
Mrs A complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line has declined her claim 
on her home insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs A noticed her boiler was losing pressure. She says she spoke to her plumber, who said 
this would be due to a leak. She contacted UKI to see if, under the trace and access part of 
her home insurance policy, she could use her plumber to investigate the leak. She says UKI 
told her she could.
Mrs A says the plumber took up various parts of her flooring and, on the second attempt, 
traced the leak. He invoiced Mrs A £1,050 (plus VAT) for this work, which totalled £1,260.
When Mrs A claimed for this amount under the trace and access part of her policy, UKI 
declined her claim. It said the leak hadnt caused any damage to her property. Mrs A says 
there was damage to her floor boards and joists, which needed to be dried out before the 
flooring could be replaced
When UKI didnt uphold Mrs As complaint about this, she came to us. The investigator who 
looked at Mrs A complaint upheld it. He thought the leak was causing damage to Mrs As 
property and so UKI should cover her costs in tracing and accessing it. He also thought UK 
should pay Mrs A £150 in compensation for the distress it had caused her by declining her 
claim.
UKI disagrees. It says the purpose of trace and access is for digging out walls or concrete 
floors to locate pipes etc. In Mrs As case, it says the flooring dried out and so wasnt 
damaged. 
Mrs As complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mrs As home insurance policy. Her buildings cover says, under the 
heading Trace and Access:
We will also pay up to £5,000 to remove and replace any part of the buildings to find the 
source of any water or oil escaping from tanks, pipes, appliances or fixed heating
systems that is causing damage to the building.
UKI says it declined Mrs As claim because her building wasnt damaged by the leak. Mrs A 
says her floor boards and joists were saturated by it, taking more than a week to dry out, 
before the wooden flooring could be reinstated. 
Mrs As policy doesnt say what damage means. UKI says damage means physical harm 
that impairs the value, usefulness, or normal function of something. Mrs A says water 
damaged the joists and floor boards. And she says it was her plumbers professional view 
that the drying out had successfully remedied the damage caused by the leak without 
requiring these to be replaced. She says theres nothing in the policy to say what level of 
damage is necessary for the policy to be valid  and, in particular, nothing to say the 
damage must be permanent.
I dont have a written report (either from UKI or from Mrs As plumber) setting out the impact 
of the leak on Mrs As property. In relation to the trace and access work, Mrs As plumbers 
invoice refers to work done to investigate pressure drop and trace leaks in the hot water 
tank and heating systems (including removal and replacement of flooring). Ive seen a video 
which Mrs A says her plumber took, showing water coming out of pipework. It also shows 
nearby flooring joists that look wet.
So I dont doubt Mrs A had a leak. And, from what Ive seen, the leak caused her flooring to 
become wet. On the facts in this case, I dont think that, because a period of drying out 
rectified the problem (and nothing needed to be replaced), the flooring wasnt damaged 
within the ordinary meaning of the word. It follows that I dont think it was fair and reasonable 
of UKI to decline Mrs As claim on this basis. 
I also dont think UKIs view that the trace and access policy wording in this case is only for 
digging out walls or concrete floors to locate pipes etc. To me, it clearly covers the damage a 
leak itself is causing, and not just the damage caused by tracing and accessing it. I think the 
purpose of the trace and access cover is to help policyholders in Mrs As situation.
Mrs A clearly feels very strongly about her complaint and shes told us shes been extremely 
disappointed with UKIs response. This is also clear from call notes UKI has given us as part 
of its case file. So, like our investigator, I think its fair and reasonable that UKI should pay 
Mrs A compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of her claim has 
caused her. 
Putting things right
UKI should put things right for Mrs A as Ive set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
pay her £1,260 to reimburse her for the trace and access costs she incurred. And I direct     
U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on this 
amount from the date Mrs A paid her plumber to the date of settlement.
I also direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of her claim has caused her. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman