DRN-3370872
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy Nationwide Building Society didnt do more to prevent them being 
the victim of two scams.
What happened
Between 2017 and 2019, Mr and Mrs F lost over a million pounds as the result of two linked 
scams  B and D. First, they were tricked into investing over £750,000 into a fake 
investment scam. And then Mr F was contacted by someone claiming they could help him 
recover the lost funds, resulting in him being scammed again. Mr F was led to believe hed 
been able to make back what hed lost plus additional funds. But when it came to 
withdrawing this money, he was told he had to pay certain taxes to get this money released 
to him. Despite paying these, he never received any funds back.
There were three parts to the complaint Mr F raised, the scams in general, issues with a 
£100,000 payment and problems with another payment being sent to an account within 
Mr Fs control. Nationwide didnt uphold any of the complaints raised.
Mr F brought his complaints to our service in July 2020. Our investigator explained we 
couldnt look at the transaction to the other bank account as this was brought too late  more 
than six months after Nationwides final response. But he did investigate all the scam 
payments, including the £100,000.
He didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs case. He said that due to the way the scams operated and 
the general usage of the account, he didnt think Nationwide did need to intervene in a 
number of the payments. And even if it had, where payments were higher or more unusual, 
Mr Fs account usage suggested he was an experienced investor who was very convinced 
by both the first and second scams. So an intervention wouldnt have prevented him losing 
this money. And he was satisfied Nationwide had done all it could in relation to the 
£100,000.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review the case. He said Nationwide hadnt ever looked 
into things properly or provided him with evidence he was being deceived while he was 
involved in the scams. He was unhappy Nationwide hadnt provided him with updates since 
another party got involved with the £100,000 payment and with how it had dealt with his 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness I will set out that Im in agreement with the investigator that we cant look 
into the issues dealt with by Nationwides final response from August 2019. Mr and Mrs F 
brought this to our service too late, as they didnt bring it to us until July 2020. Neither he nor 
Mrs F have provided any exceptional reasons for this delay. So this decision only relates to 
the scams he was involved in and the payments he made because of this.
Ive reviewed the payments made to B and I dont consider Nationwide does need to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs F for any of these.
I accept the first payment was of high value, but this wasnt highly unusual for this account. 
Mr and Mrs F had invested before and for a similar sum. And high value payments werent 
uncommon on this account. So I cant say this payment was in itself out of character for 
them. Mr F was in branch, so this did mean a natural opportunity arose for Nationwide to ask 
questions. But Mr F had been dealing with B for a short while at this point and had already 
invested a similar sum with it from another account. So Im not satisfied that Nationwide 
couldve said anything to prevent him going ahead with this transaction. Afterall it didnt know 
this was a scam investment and so only couldve asked general questions about what Mr F 
was doing. And Im satisfied he couldve answered these with confidence, especially as 
someone whod previously invested high amounts.
Mr F does go on to send some higher value payments later on in this scam, so even with 
him and Mrs Fs account usage, I think Nationwide couldve intervened at a few points. 
However, Mr F has explained to us how much trust he had in the fraudsters and that he 
could access a trading platform showing his funds and payments. I cant see that there were 
any red flags in what was going on, so that Nationwide wouldve been prompted that, 
despite his desire to go ahead, it should block his payments all together at that time. And 
again with Mr Fs apparent financial knowledge  from what I can see hes told us and the 
bank  and investment history, I dont think an intervening call or conversation wouldve 
prevented him making these payments.
Ive then thought about Mr Fs interactions with D. I understand he was contacted by 
someone who hed built a relationship with at B, who claimed they no longer worked there 
and wanted to make amends with Mr F  having themselves also been scammed by B. They 
set out an opportunity that would allow him to recover what was taken from him and make 
additional funds. I understand Mr Fs trading account with D showed a balance of nearly 
£1,500,000 before his contacts stopped responding to him and the website disappeared. 
And he then realised this too was a scam.
I accept Mr F says he contacted Nationwide between the two scams, but we dont have any 
evidence of this. Nationwide has nothing on its systems and no record of the letter Mr F says 
was sent. And Mr F didnt chase Nationwide up about this letter at the time. So while Mr F 
knew that he was dealing with D to recover money from B, I cant conclude that Nationwide 
was aware of this. I think this is important, because as Nationwide didnt know the previous 
transactions on the account had been fraudulent, it wouldnt have any markers or notes to 
query future payments of this nature. So when Mr F sent £24,000 to D, this would have 
looked in character for the account  he was again investing, with very similar values to what 
he had before.
I can also see that on the occasions Mr F did speak with Nationwide about his transactions 
he was confident about his interactions with D. Hes explained to us about how he was made 
to believe his contact at D was acting in his interests and he could trust them to put things 
right. I can also see that even when he discussed the scam with B with Nationwide he 
continued to interact with D and was confident hed have his funds returned  despite all the 
information he then had on scams. So while I have considered whether Nationwide could 
have prevented Mr and Mrs F losing more funds, I dont think it could have.
In relation to the payment Mr F made in May 2019, £100,000, I do agree with the investigator 
that it seems Nationwide has done what it can at this point. I understand the steps Mr F has 
had to take, but this isnt due to the actions of Nationwide  the money has been held by 
another party. I dont think Nationwide needed to take more steps in relation to these funds 
and it did update Mr F in September 2019 with what was going on and the action hed have to take outside of its processes.
Ive reviewed the notes Mr F has provided us that he made from his phone calls with 
Nationwide, but these are dated from May 2019. So after the last payment from this account 
to the scam. These notes therefore dont change my view of how Nationwide handled the 
scam payments during the time Mr F was a victim. And its outside of our remit to comment 
on matters such as how long Mr F had to wait to speak to a Nationwide operative or how it 
has decided to staff its phonelines. I appreciate this has been a very difficult and stressful 
time for him and Mrs F but, from what I can consider, I dont agree a compensation award is 
due for how Nationwide has dealt with them since they realised this was a scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman