DRN-3053015
The complaint
T, the owners of a block of residential properties, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc 
unfairly declined a claim they made on a property insurance policy.
What happened
T are represented on this claim. Where I refer to C within this decision, this includes their 
representatives. Similarly, AXA has appointed representatives to undertake enquiries and 
inspections during the claim, and any references to AXA include its representatives.
T insure a property they own with AXA. They made a claim for damage to the property after 
the property partially collapsed. This had occurred after a named storm.
AXA declined cover for the claim. It said that the storm had triggered the collapse, but the 
principal cause of the damage was the gradual deterioration of the property, which wasnt 
covered by the policy.
T referred their complaint about AXAs decision to our service. Our investigator didnt think 
AXA had done anything wrong. C didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service generally takes an approach to storm claims which involves answering three 
questions:
Were weather conditions at the time of the incident consistent with a storm?
Is the damage caused consistent with what would be caused by a storm?
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then wed normally expect an insurer to 
cover a claim.
Were the weather conditions a storm?
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and a storm isnt defined in these. The lowest 
wind speed that the Beaufort Scale considered strong enough to cause structural damage is 
47 mph. The nearest weather station to Ts property recorded gusts of wind in excess of 
68mph with an average speed of 43 mph on the day the damage occurred.
Im satisfied that the weather conditions on the day in question did amount to a storm.
Is the damage consistent with a storm?
Its accepted that storms can cause structural damage to buildings, and that the level of 
damage caused increases with increased wind speeds. In this case, the damage caused to 
Ts property was extensive. A masonry faade on the property collapsed. According to the 
Royal Meteorological Society the average wind speeds would be consistent with potentially 
causing slight structural damage. However, gusts of wind in excess of 65 mph could cause 
considerable damage. Im not aware of any properties in the vicinity of Ts property as 
having suffered similar damage. 
On balance, Im not sure that I can rule out that the damage caused is consistent with the 
weather conditions at the time of the incident. On that basis, Ill look at the final question.
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
Theres a condition in the policy which requires that the property be kept in a good state of 
repair.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that there were structural concerns with Ts property when the 
damage occurred. A previous claim was made to AXA about these issues. AXA declined 
cover on the policy, saying that these structural issues had arisen due to gradual 
deterioration and wear and tear. T referred a complaint about that decision to our service. 
We didnt uphold the complaint.
The evidence is clear that arrangements were being made to carry out structural repairs at 
the time of the collapse. The extent of these structural issues meant that residents of the 
property had moved out some time before the collapse.
So it seems to me that there were significant concerns with the structural integrity of Ts 
property at the time of the storm. And so I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that while the 
storm had acted as a trigger for the collapse, the main reason it occurred was because of 
the gradual deterioration of the structural integrity.
The policy requires that the property be kept in a good state of repair. The evidence I have 
supports that this wasnt the case  the structural concerns were known about and were so 
serious as to have resulted in residents moving out. While works were being planned to 
rectify these issues, I do think the property wasnt in a good state of repair at the time of the 
collapse. The collapse was, on balance, linked to these issues. I conclude that the main 
cause of the damage wasnt the storm.
In line with the approach I set out earlier, not all of the questions have a positive answer. I 
think AXA acted fairly when it declined cover for the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman