DRN-2932827
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) wont reimburse him
for funds he lost after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. But
in summary, on 19 June 2019 Mr O instructed MoneyGram to make £3,000 available to a
third party. He paid a £100 fee for this service. This was after hed received an email
purporting to be from a recognised technology company informing him his computer had
been infiltrated with specific material and, that to clean it up it would cost £3,000.
It was following this that Mr O went to a Post Office branch and made the £3,000 payment
on 19 June 2019 via MoneyGram. Unknown to Mr O at the time, the payment he made was
to fraudsters. Mr O says he was told to go home and provide the eight-digit reference
number on the receipt, plus provide identification due to the amount being transferred.
Mr Os told us that on his return home, after making the payment it was then that hed
realised hed been scammed. Hes explained he didnt provide the eight-digit reference
number or the additional identification to the fraudsters.
Mr O says he immediately informed the Post Office, Action Fraud, the police and
MoneyGram.
Mr O complained to MoneyGram but wasnt satisfied with its response  that it wasnt going
to reimburse him. MoneyGram said when an agent is presented with identification that meets
its photographic requirements and the correct reference is provided, MoneyGram is
contractually required to release the funds. Subsequently, the transaction amount was paid
out by the MoneyGram agent. MoneyGram added that it was satisfied that all necessary
steps were taken in order to pay out Mr Os transaction to the correct receiver.
As he remained dissatisfied Mr O complained to this service. One of our investigators looked
into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought MoneyGram ought to
have been concerned about the payment. This was on the basis that Mr O was new to
MoneyGram and had never used it before, he was making a payment of £3,000 to a country
he had no obvious connection and the payment was being made early in the morning.
The investigator said MoneyGram didnt ask Mr O any questions about the payment and felt
had it done so she was persuaded the scam wouldve unravelled. She considered
MoneyGram hadnt gone far enough, and an opportunity was missed to discuss the payment
with Mr O. Had it asked questions our investigator thought Mr O wouldnt have lost this
money.
She thought carefully about what Mr O had said in relation to not providing the eight-digit
reference number or additional identification to the fraudsters but on balance, thought it was
more likely than not that Mr O had provided this information having seen the slip that was
completed when the fraudsters went to pick up the money.
MoneyGram disagreed with the investigators view. It said a form was completed by Mr O at
the time of making the payment. It highlighted fraud warnings are printed on the top of each
form discouraging customers from sending funds for scenarios such as what Mr O fell victim
to and advising customers against sending money to strangers. It added as the payment
was sent by Mr O, he would be the only one with the details of the payment- therefore, he
had to have released the receive detail (such as, identification in the name of the recipient
and reference number) to the fraudsters in order for the funds to be collected.
The investigator went back to MoneyGram setting out why she didnt consider the fraud
warnings at the top of the form to have been enough in this case. She felt Mr O was
completely drawn in by the scam and as there was a point where there was staff interaction
with Mr O - she thought it wouldve been reasonable to have asked Mr O questions about
what he was sending the money for.
MoneyGram didnt accept the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman.
So, the complaint is now with me to reach a decision.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
30 June 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Id first like to express my sympathy to Mr O for what he has been through. This is a horrible thing to 
happen to anyone, and I can completely understand how this has affected him. However, it is my job 
to make decisions based not on my sympathy for a situation, but rather on what is fair to all involved, 
based on an assessment of whether a business did something wrong.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the transaction. And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But I am also mindful that when Mr O made the payment, MoneyGram should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And there are circumstances where a 
payment service provider should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr O, when he made the payment to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Mr O asked MoneyGram to release a payment to anyone in possession of the receiver details he 
provided it with and the reference number. Because of this, MoneyGram was following his 
instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the payment - as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good 
practice MoneyGram shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having thought very carefully about MoneyGrams actions, I cant safely say it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in allowing the payment to be made. I dont currently think MoneyGram should 
reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss.I say this because Im mindful Mr O didnt have an existing relationship with MoneyGram and that this 
was a one-off payment. Ive thought carefully about Mr O not having used MoneyGram before asking 
to make the scam payment. But I dont think the fact Mr O was making a payment for the first time in 
itself ought to have caused MoneyGram concern that he might be at risk of financial harm  after all 
there is a first time for everything. And I also need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for 
consumers to make one-off payments from time to time.
Here Mr O made a payment of £3,000 via MoneyGram. I dont think this payment was large
enough to have caused MoneyGram concern. It follows that Im not persuaded the amount of the 
payment was so unusual or suspicious that MoneyGram ought to have intervened and asked 
questions about the payment in the particular circumstances of this case before the payment was 
processed. And while I recognise Mr O was making an international payment, Im not persuaded this 
would have caused MoneyGram any additional concern (in the way it might if it was a bank) when 
considering MoneyGram is used to send funds internationally.
MoneyGram has referred to fraud warnings which it says were printed at the top of each form 
discouraging customers from sending money to strangers. MoneyGram said a form was completed by 
Mr O at the time of making the payment, although I have not been provided with a copy of the actual 
form Mr O completed at the time. Our investigator asked Mr O whether he remembered completing a 
form at the Post Office, but he told us he couldnt recall doing this. However, he did acknowledge it 
was a long time ago. Having thought carefully about this point, I think it is more likely than not that 
Mr O did complete a form when making the payment and Im mindful the form I think Mr O is more 
likely than not to have completed did contain warnings about fraud and scams. And so in view of all 
the circumstances of this case, Im persuaded MoneyGram did enough in this particular case. 
It is very unfortunate Mr O has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and as Ive 
said above, I do understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But 
when considering all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say MoneyGram should have done 
more to prevent him losing this money. So, I dont currently think it would be fair for me to ask 
MoneyGram to refund the loss.
For completeness, Ive also considered what Mr O has told us about the eight-digit reference
number and additional identification- which he says wasnt provided to the fraudsters. Id like to 
assure Mr O that I dont doubt his recollections are what he recalls happened  and while I cant 
comment on the actions of the receiving agent, on balance, I think it is more likely than not the details 
(such as the reference number) were shared with the fraudsters. In any case Ive not seen anything 
that suggests any error has been made by MoneyGram International in sending the payment.
MoneyGram responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr O responded expressing his upset at the provisional findings reached. In the initial 
response it was commented that he failed to understand why the money went without the 
authorising numbers being put into the computer and said the receipt states that the money 
will not be taken until both numbers are released, which they werent.
 
In the further response, Mr O reiterated his upset at the findings reached but said there was 
nothing further to add in addition to what had previously been provided when bringing the 
complaint to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my decision remains unchanged. Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out in my provisional decision which Ive copied above. Id like to assure Mr O that Ive carefully considered all the information provided by both him 
and MoneyGram and that I accept my findings will have come as a disappointment to him. 
As I explained in my provisional decision I do sympathise with what Mr O has been through 
but that in my role I need to reach my decision based on what is fair to all parties involved 
and based on an assessment of whether a business did something wrong. 
Mr O has said he doesnt understand why the money went without the authorising numbers 
being provided and comments the receipt states that the money will not be taken until both 
numbers are released. Mr O has told us within the information hes previously provided that 
the eight-digit reference number and additional identification wasnt provided to the 
fraudsters. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Os comments above in relation to the eight-digit reference 
number but having done so, this doesnt change my position as set out in my provisional 
decision. Again, I dont doubt Mr Os recollections are what he recalls happened  and while 
I cant comment on the actions of the receiving agent, on balance, I think it is more likely 
than not the details (such as the reference number) were shared with the fraudsters. And in 
any case, Ive not seen anything that suggests any error has been made by MoneyGram 
International in sending the payment. 
I do recognise and understand Mr Os strength of feeling about what has happened but Im 
afraid my position remains the same for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision  
which are copied above. To summarise, Im not persuaded the amount of the payment was 
so unusual or suspicious that MoneyGram ought to have intervened and asked questions 
about the payment in the particular circumstances of this case before the payment was 
processed. 
It is very unfortunate Mr O has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam,
and as Ive said above, I do understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and
upsetting for him. But when considering all of the circumstances, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, along with those previously set out in my provisional findings, my decision 
remains unchanged. It follows that I dont think I can fairly say MoneyGram should have 
done more to prevent him losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
MoneyGram to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman