DRN-3631562
The complaint
Ms A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt do enough to protect her when she 
fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed her the funds she lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Ms A authorised the disputed payments made using her debit card. So, the 
starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that shes 
liable for these payments.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and good industry practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before processing a payment. If Monzo failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss it ought reasonably to have prevented, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Ive considered whether Monzo ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments before processing them. And I note that it did get in contact with 
Ms A  Monzo put a block on the account and questioned two payments that were 
attempted to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. After Ms A said the payments were 
to purchase BitCoin, Monzo unblocked the account without further questions. Its 
unclear why these payments were stopped but Im not satisfied the intervention here 
was sufficient. Having flagged with Monzo to the extent it needed to ask her about 
the payments, I would have expected it to have appropriately questioned these 
beyond asking what they were for, especially when given the response that they 
were for the purchase of cryptocurrency. 
But, while Monzos intervention wasnt sufficient, I do have to consider whether an 
appropriate intervention would have likely made a difference. It wouldnt be fair to 
hold Monzo liable for Ms As losses if I dont think it would have stopped Ms A from 
going ahead with the payments anyway.
Having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded that appropriate intervention 
by Monzo would have stopped Ms A from making payments towards the scam. I say 
this because Ms A reached out to a good friend on social media wanting to invest, 
not realising that her friends account had been hacked. Ms A, via her representative, 
said she did not know anything about cryptocurrency or cryptocurrency mining but 
trusted her friend. And she was confident about the investment she was making as 
My friend told me they were genuine. And showed me they were. So, given that 
Ms A thought she was investing with the support of a trusted friend, and considering 
all the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that an intervention by Monzo 
would have stopped her from making the payments. 
Ive thought about whether Monzo acted fairly in trying to recover the funds as, in 
some circumstances, money spent on a debit card can be recovered through a 
chargeback. However, Ms A used her debit card to pay a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange provider before the funds were subsequently sent on to the scammer. So, 
it's unlikely a chargeback would have been successful as the service  i.e. the 
purchase of cryptocurrency  looks to have been provided by the merchant. As a 
result, I dont think Monzo could reasonably have done more to recover the funds.
While Im sorry that Ms A has been the victim of a cruel scam, I dont uphold this complaint. 
To summarise, while I accept Monzo ought to have done more by way of an intervention, I 
dont think it ultimately would have made a difference to Ms As decision to make payments 
to the scammer. So, I dont hold Monzo responsible for Ms As losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman