DRN-4256391
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wouldnt allow him to withdraw 
a significant amount of cash from a branch, despite calling ahead to arrange this.
What happened
Mr J called first direct on 3 February 2023 and asked to make a significant cash withdrawal 
from his account. First direct said it wasnt prepared to do and Mr J complained. First direct 
didnt uphold the complaint and said it didnt authorise this withdrawal as it was concerned 
about the reasons Mr J provided for withdrawing a considerable sum when other alternative 
payment methods could be used.
Mr J brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator didnt think first direct had treated Mr J 
unfairly in the circumstances of this case. Mr J asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J was disappointed that first direct decided not to authorise the cash 
withdrawal on this occasion, but for very much the same reasons as the Investigator I dont 
think first direct treated Mr J unfairly. I will now explain why.
Mr J believes that his account offers a free counter service and that it isnt convenient or cost 
effective for him to transfer funds to another bank or financial services business as this 
would involve exchange rate costs and other fees. I have some empathy with Mr J here, but 
Im satisfied that first direct is entitled to decline a request for a cash withdrawal in certain 
circumstances. In this case first direct made it clear to Mr J that it had security concerns 
about him carrying such a significant amount of cash to another country. First direct also 
explained to Mr J that there were alternative options available to him.
First direct has in place a protocol for dealing with request such as the request Mr J made. I 
wouldnt expect first direct to publish the protocols it uses, nor would I expect it to tell 
customers what the protocols are. Doing this would in itself leave first direct open to 
fraudulent activity on accounts. I cant tell first direct what it must do or what its protocols 
should be  thats a matter for first direct - but I can consider whether first direct treated Mr J 
unfairly in this case. In Mr Js case, first direct made it clear that a request for a cash 
withdrawal would be considered at any time but that a decision whether to authorise a cash 
withdrawal is based on the information Mr J disclosed at the time. I dont think this is unfair 
as first direct would be able to assess the risk to Mr J and itself at the time of a request.
For the avoidance of any doubt, Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr J and first 
direct on 3 February. First direct wasnt prepared to authorise a withdrawal for the amount 
Mr J requested and it provided the reasons in this call. First direct also suggested alternative 
options to Mr J, but Mr J didnt feel these were suitable because of potential costs. In the 
telephone call First direct made it reasonably clear to Mr J that its decision was based on the 
information hed provided and that it wouldnt be prepared to authorise any other amount to 
be withdrawn in cash at that time. Mr J has since commented that first direct has declined 
other withdrawal requests from him. My decision only addresses the complaint Mr J made 
about the withdrawal attempt on 3 February, but it seems more likely than not that first direct 
would have followed the protocols it has in place  as it has in this case. Mr J says he wants 
to make many cash withdrawals like this one in the future. That may be the case, but first 
direct is more likely than not going to follow the protocols it has in place at the time. These 
may be different to other banks, but that is a matter for first direct.
Taking all of the above into account Im satisfied that first direct followed the protocols it has 
in place for cash withdrawals and that it hasnt treated Mr J unfairly.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman