DRN-2682457
The complaint
Mr W and Mr H are unhappy that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) declined their 
claim for storm damage under their buildings insurance. The policy was in joint names but, 
for ease, Ill refer only to Mr W throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr W reported to CTI that he had a leak through his rear dormer roof, caused by storm 
conditions which had blown felt from the flat roof. He said he contacted CTI in December 
2018 and asked it to arrange roof repairs, but it refused. Mr W had the repairs done in mid-
2019, and later made a claim to CTI. It appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the roof but 
CTI declined the claim relying on the policy exclusion of wear and tear as there was no 
evidence of storm damage.
Mr W complained to CTI because he thought it shouldve done more when he first reported 
the damage in 2018. CTI denied having received any contact from Mr W until November 
2019. By then, the damage had been repaired and its LA couldnt see any evidence that a 
storm had caused damage. CTI said the repairs looked like routine maintenance and 
maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged that Mr W had provided a lot 
of information to support his claim. But, in the absence of an appropriate expert report, 
photos, or evidence that he made a claim sooner, our investigator didnt think Mr W had 
demonstrated that hed suffered an insured peril.
Mr W disagreed and he provided further information in support of his claim, maintaining that 
CTI failed to handle it properly. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I realise Mr W will be disappointed, especially 
after he has spent a considerable amount of time pulling together evidence in support of his 
claim. But I dont think the evidence shows that he suffered an insured loss. Ill explain.
Firstly, Id like to say that Im genuinely sorry to hear that Mr W and Mr H have experienced a 
difficult time since first noticing the leak. I understand that there have been numerous 
instances of ill-health and personal stresses which have made it harder for them to deal with 
their complaint. 
Mr W provided a lot of information for my consideration and Ive looked at everything on his 
complaint file. I can see that our investigator responded in detail to many of the points Mr W 
raised, and he explained where issues fell outside our jurisdiction, so I see no benefit in 
commenting on each issue again. Instead, Ill focus on the key points of complaint which fall 
within my remit, which is to decide whether it was fair for CTI to decline Mr Ws claim for the 
reason it gave and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr Ws claim was for storm damage to his rear dormer roof. It seems that theres no dispute 
about the presence of storm conditions around the time Mr W says the damage happened. 
Nor is there any dispute that the type of damage is consistent with that typically caused by a 
storm  rainwater entered his home through the damaged flat felt roof, damaging the interior 
decorations. The key point of dispute, then, is whether the damage was caused wholly or 
mainly by the storm conditions.
Before I can fully address this point, I must first look at whether Mr W reported the damage 
to CTI. He said he called CTI and its agent told him to arrange for a roof report himself. As 
hed already tried to get a contractor to provide written quotes, Mr W was frustrated with this 
response. However, CTI has no record of receiving a call from him. Ive thought about Mr 
Ws recollection of the call, which is quite detailed, and I have no reason to doubt that he 
reported the damage. However, the evidence tells me that, on balance, its likely Mr W 
reported the damage to the wrong business. 
The policy sets out what Mr W should do in the event of a claim (I have removed identifying 
information, all of which is available to Mr W in his policy documents):
Claims Conditions applicable to the whole of this insurance
Your duties
In the event of a claim or possible claim under this insurance
You must notify:
Business name 
Business address
Dedicated Claimsline (Business & Out of Hours): 0207 
Dedicated E Mail: 
You must provide the Claims Centre with written details of what has happened within 
30 days and provide any other information we may require.
You must take care to limit any loss, damage or injury.
If you fail to comply with any of the above duties this insurance may become invalid.
The details Mr W supplied show that he raised his initial claim with a different business, 
using a different number. That business confirmed Mr W contacted it in December 2018, but 
as none of the contact details match those in the policy, I cant fairly say Mr W reported the 
damage to CTI. That being the case, I cant hold CTI responsible for Mr Ws subsequent 
decision to complete the repairs without its authorisation. And in turn, I cant say its unfair 
that CTI wouldve wanted to see evidence before repair of the damage it was previously 
unaware of.
I understand that the business Mr W did report the damage to said it referred him to another 
named business, linked with CTI. Again, I have no reason to doubt that. But for the same 
reasons as above, I cant fairly say that it means Mr W told CTI of his claim before he 
completed repairs.
Now Ill return to my original point  whether the damage was caused wholly or mainly by 
storm conditions. Because Mr W didnt provide CTI with photos or an expert report clearly 
showing that a one-off storm event had caused the damage, he hasnt been able to 
demonstrate that his claim meets this requirement. Ive seen the evidence Mr W did provide, 
which includes photos of a piece of felt roof on the floor, a piece of cladding, evidence of a 
leak, receipt for repairs, and a report from his roofer. CTIs LA also provided a report but, as 
the inspection was done after the repairs, I accept that its value is relatively limited. That said, I think its worth pointing out that Mr Ws policy included an endorsement for the 
flat roof:
Endorsements
28: Flat Roof clause:
It is your duty to ensure that any areas of flat roof(s) shall be checked at your own expense 
at least every 5 years by an individual or company who are members of a recognised trade 
body and any faults rectified as soon as possible. In the event of a claim, evidence of the 
inspection plus any repairs, must be produced for the claim to be valid.
Additional excesses will apply if the flat roof exceeds 25% of the total roof area. The 
excesses are shown in your schedule.
Im not aware that CTI raised this, but it goes some way to demonstrating that it was entitled 
to seek evidence that Mr W had maintained his roof. So, Ive focused on Mr Ws roofers 
report and receipt for work done. While its clear that work was done which could relate to 
storm damage, there are details of other repairs completed which are more in keeping with 
routine maintenance or which relate to different areas of the house than that originally 
claimed for. For example:
repointed chimney
fascia painted just to tidy up
front cladding
cleaned cladding
pointed under back step.
The roofer gave the reasons for the repairs as, down to storm damage over the winter 
months, and I find this interesting because it doesnt suggest that the damage was caused 
by a single storm event. 
So, Mr Ws evidence suggests to me that the repairs were for routine maintenance (wear 
and tear) of damage caused by weather over a period of time. The presence of a storm 
around the time Mr W noticed the leak isnt disputed, but the evidence suggests that the 
storm simply highlighted areas that needed attention. CTI declined Mr Ws claim under the 
following exclusion, set out in the policy General Conditions:
j) Wear and Tear
We will not pay for damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating 
cause.
For the reasons Ive given, I think its fair that CTI declined Mr Ws claim under this 
exclusion.
In summary, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr Ws roof needed repairs, but I 
think CTI fairly declined his claim under the terms of the policy because he wasnt able to 
demonstrate that a one-off storm had caused the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman