DRN-1818874
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W are unhappy about the handling and time taken to deal with their water 
damage claim under their home insurance policy. The policy is provided by U K Insurance 
Limited.
Rather than refer by name to representatives or contractors appointed I will refer to them as 
UKI.
What happened
Mrs and Mr W made a claim under their home insurance and home emergency cover 
following a burst pipe causing water damage. Mrs and Mr W felt the need to complain from 
the start as they didnt feel that UKI dealt with the claim seriously or quickly enough. 
Mrs and Mr W said it seemed UKI was trying to keep claim costs down but the delays it 
created meant that the damage was worse, and the costs increased.
The emergency plumber didnt arrive until the next evening, the hotel offered wasnt like for 
like and it took weeks to arrange the alternative accommodation. Mrs and Mr W said this 
shouldve all been dealt with more quickly. In view of this UKI offered £350 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Mrs and Mr W didnt accept this and brought their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In terms of delays apart from the alternative 
accommodation he felt UKI acted reasonably. Regarding the compensation amount of £350 
taking everything into account our investigator said that UKI had made a reasonable offer. 
Mrs and Mr W remained unhappy with this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr W were upset by the lack of immediate action from UKI at the start of their claim. 
Its clear that throughout the claim Mrs and Mr W had to chase up UKI to ensure that it deal 
with matters. Theres no disputing thats poor service.
Mrs and Mr W pointed out that their family situation meant that action needed to be 
forthcoming from UKI much more quickly than it did. Mrs and Mr W said this caused them a 
lot of extra anxiety during an already stressful situation.
A loss adjuster was appointed but as their representative wouldnt be able to visit for a week, 
Mrs and Mr W complained, and UKI arranged a different loss adjuster to come more quickly. 
I think UKI acted reasonably here and in line with Mrs and Mr Ws wishes.
The property took some time to dry out, there were some concerns around potential 
asbestos, and after initially accepting UKIs contractor Mrs and Mr W understandably 
changed their minds when they werent comfortable with the work the contractor was going 
to do. There was also some contention and then supplier delays over the kitchen units. 
Although I accept all of this didnt help get the claim concluded, based on the amounts of 
time involved, I dont think UKI caused any extra unreasonable delays here.
UKI said it accepted that it had taken too long to arrange the alternative accommodation. It 
said that usually alternative accommodation would only be arranged when the repair works 
were about to start but agreed that this shouldve been sooner in relation to this claim. This 
clearly was very frustrating for Mrs and Mr W. After discussion with UKI Mrs and Mr W went 
and found what they felt was a suitable alternative property. They informed UKI only to be 
told it was too expensive and UKI said it would use its own experts to source a property. I 
think this was poor, UKI couldve been doing this while Mrs and Mr W were also looking, 
rather than waiting until it decided it didnt like the cost.
Mrs and Mr W didnt like that UKI also offered them a cash option to remain in their own 
home throughout the claim. But UKI has explained that many customers prefer to do this, so 
although that didnt suit Mrs and Mr W it wasnt an unreasonable offer for UKI to make.
Mrs and Mr W think their situation means UKI should be paying far more in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience. UKI said it felt its offer of £350 compensation was 
reasonable and in line with awards it would expect our service to make in such 
circumstances. Although I understand Mrs and Mr W feel strongly that they should be getting 
a lot more I accept what UKI has said. I think based on all the factors in this case the £350 
offer for distress and inconvenience is reasonable. I agree that Mrs and Mr W had to chase 
UKI and keep asking for updates, but it does appear that UKI acted on that and made the 
£350 offer based on where the service had been poor.
I note that Mrs and Mr W also complained to the provider of the initial home emergency 
service and made a further complaint to UKI to deal with other costs such as travel. I wont 
be commenting on these areas as they arent part of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman