DRN-3634797
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund all the 
money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 20 May 2022 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ws testimony. But briefly, Mr W 
made a number of payments between 21 April 2020 and 18 August 2020 totalling £274,176 
to a number of different beneficiaries. He believed he was making payments towards 
investments.
Mr W told us he saw an advert on his mobile phone (he cant now recall whether it was from 
a text message or email message) showing a well-known celebrity advising on ways to make 
money. Mr W entered his details on the form and subsequently received calls from various 
brokers and decided to go with two   I will refer to them as F and U. Mr W initially invested 
£200 using a card and within a week saw his investment had made over £1,000. Mr W went 
on to invest more money and received some profits totalling £511.91.
Mr W reported two transactions as a scam in November 2020 and the remaining disputed 
transactions in February 2021.
NatWest refunded 50% of Mr Ws transactions totalling £137,088.09 as it said it could have 
done more to prevent the scam but also believes Mr W did not take steps to verify the 
authenticity of the payments.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt there was more Mr W could have 
done to assure himself that this was a genuine investment, which would have likely revealed 
the scam and for these reasons, she felt Mr W should bear 50% of the responsibility as he 
had reason to be suspicious from the beginning of the scam.
Mr W said he accepted he should be partially responsible but not 50%. He feels NatWest 
should bear a greater portion of his loss. Mr W refers to NatWests secure banking promise 
on its website. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
I have carefully noted the representations made by Mr W, but I wont be addressing every 
single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the points 
havent been considered, simply that I dont need to cover every point in reaching an 
outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead 
concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Should NatWest have prevented the payments from being made?
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code - doesnt apply in this case because the 
transactions were made to international accounts.
I accept Mr W did fall victim to a scam but, there is no automatic right to a refund for victims 
of fraud. In fact, the relevant regulations (and the terms of his account) make Mr W 
responsible for payments hes made himself in the first instance. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute here that Mr W authorised the 
payments. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
NatWest has refunded 50% of Mr Ws transactions - suggesting that it accepts that it ought 
to have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Ws loss. 
NatWest has refunded 50% of all Mr Ws transactions but from what I can see, it didnt add 
interest. I thought about this further and whether it should do more to put things rights for Mr 
W, as I would normally add interest from the date of the transfer to the date of refund.
But I think the total offer is more than I would award  even without NatWest adding interest. 
I say this because NatWest has refunded 50% of the transactions from the very first 
transaction and I dont think it necessarily needed to intervene on the initial transfers (I have 
explained why below). 
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So, Ive considered whether 
the payment requests Mr W made were out of character and unusual. Bearing in mind, there 
is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent 
and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic requires reference to common activity 
on an account. Ive looked back at the account statements as far as April 2019 to assess this. These were international transfers which was unusual for the account, but the amounts 
were between £4,472.18 (the first transfer) and £10,015. Mr W had made faster payments 
before and in the months prior to the first transaction had made around nine transfers of 
values much higher than this. And the disputed transactions didnt empty Mr Ws account.
I dont think this pattern of activity would obviously have aroused suspicion with NatWest 
initially. Even if I concluded that NatWest ought to have intervened from the fourth 
transaction on 22 May 2020, this would amount to less with interest than the sum already 
paid by NatWest. 
As NatWest has already accepted it should have done more, NatWest met its obligations 
(including the Quinecare duty Mr W has referred to) further. 
Could Mr W have done more to mitigate his losses?
As well as thinking about what NatWests obligations were, as set out above, another key 
issue is whether Mr W acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr W should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. Ive decided that Mr W should bear some responsibility for his loss 
for the following reasons:
Mr W checked the FCA website and found F and U werent regulated and questioned 
this before proceeding. He says he was told by the scammers that it was too 
expensive, and it would restrict their trading ability. I dont think the answer he was 
given was persuasive and it warranted further checking.
The FCA had a warning on its website about F since June 2020. There were also 
other warnings about F being a scam around the same time. There were also 
warnings about U on 27 February 2020.
The investment returns the scammer mentioned were too good to be true. Mr W 
himself has acknowledged this. The rate of return and timescale was totally 
unrealistic. I consider that the promised returns were so unlikely that Mr W ought 
reasonably to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. 
That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on his part. 
Mr W wasnt provided with any documentation, contract or terms and conditions 
regarding his investment; everything was agreed verbally and should have caused 
suspicion and led to greater caution from Mr W.
Mr W has acknowledged he became suspicious after about a month of investing as 
he didnt think the brokers were acting professionally. Towards the end of the 
relationships Mr W searched the brokers addresses and admitted that the location of 
their offices aroused suspicion but he sought reassurance from, and chose to rely 
only on, what the perpetrator told him.
Mr W went ahead and made the payments despite all of these red flags. Mr W accepts he is 
partly responsible but feels the business should take a greater degree of responsibility. Ive 
thought about this further.
I note Mr W has referred to NatWests promise on its website. The first part says the bank 
will refund money paid out of a customers account by a fraudster. But as explained above 
the money wasnt paid out by the fraudster  Mr W authorised the transaction here  albeit 
he was tricked into making that payment by a fraudster. So, I dont think these transactions 
are covered by NatWests promise. The second point of the promise relates to transaction 
monitoring - but as NatWest has already accepted it didnt meet its obligations, Im not going 
to consider this further. In relation to the last point  the bank says it offers a variety of tips 
and tools on its website, on the banking app as well as in branch.Ive also thought about Mr Ws circumstances; in particular that Mr W was over 80 years old 
at the time. I dont think being over 80 years old at the time of his payment instructions on its 
own is a reason to treat Mr W differently. But there were some facts within his circumstances 
which might have made Mr W vulnerable; for example he had just sold the family home 
having been widowed and losing his daughter some 16 months earlier  although NatWest 
says it was unaware of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the disputed transfers. 
Im sorry to hear of all Mr W has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also what 
happened to him prior to the scam. Ive no doubt that Mr W has been through a lot and no 
doubt that scam has impacted him further. But I do think there is evidence within the 
circumstances that suggests Mr W was capable of taking steps to protect himself from fraud 
and financial harm. And I think there was more he might reasonably have done that would 
have led to the scam being uncovered. Mr W wanted to make an investment  a decision he 
proactively made. Mr W had time to reflect on the potential investments. He wasnt, in my 
view, under immediate pressure to proceed with the investments. He did do some research 
and was therefore capable and able to do more. Having thought very carefully about 
everything Mr W has told us, whilst Im not saying his circumstances had no impact on him 
at the time, Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable to expect Mr W to have 
protected himself against the particular scam he fell victim to. 
I appreciate Mr W feels the bank should take more responsibility but for the reasons 
explained above, I think its fair each party accepts equal responsibility.
Did NatWest do all it could to recover Mr Ws funds
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International banks 
arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK.  
The first scam payment was made in April 2020 and the last on 18 August 2020. The scam 
in relation to payments made on 2 and 3 July 2020 was reported on 12 November 2020, 
almost four months after the last payment. NatWest contacted the beneficiary bank and 
asked for the funds to be returned to Mr W, but no funds remained.
 
Mr W contacted NatWest again on 26 February 2021 regarding the other disputed transfers 
 the last one being some six months earlier - to raise a claim. NatWest contacted the 
beneficiary bank, but the beneficiary bank responded saying the account had been closed 
and no funds remained.
NatWest is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return funds. It cant require or 
force them to and unfortunately no funds have been returned. From what Ive seen NatWest 
has done what it could to try and recover the funds for Mr W, but hasnt been unable to 
obtain a refund for him. And even if there was a slight delay by NatWest, I dont consider it 
would make a difference in this case as scammers usually remove funds within hours. I 
understand that Mr W didnt know he was the victim of a scam before he reported these 
disputed transactions, but the delay means any recovery action was most unlikely to be 
successful.
I do accept Mr W has fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous 
scam. Im sorry he has lost money and I can understand why he would like to be 
compensated for all his losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation he 
finds himself in, ultimately, I think Mr W should bear 50% of the responsibility for his loss and 
it therefore follows that I dont think that NatWests refusal to reimburse the other 50% is 
unfair or unreasonable.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr W, I sympathise with his 
circumstances and I am sorry he has fallen victim to a scam. I understand that Im delivering 
a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive carefully considered his 
complaint before reaching this decision. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman