DRN-3838998
The complaint
Mr P has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because 
when he claimed for fire damage to his car, it accused him of fraud, declining his claim and 
cancelling his policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim to Admiral for fire and smoke damage to his car. He said hed returned 
home in the early hours, seen the hazard lights flashing on his car, got his keys from inside 
the house and opened the car to find it filled with smoke. Admiral examined the car and 
interviewed Mr P. Admiral said it felt Mr P had misled it during the course of the claim. It was 
particularly concerned that Mr P had told it the car was locked when, as far as it was 
concerned, this cant have been the case. Admiral accused Mr P of fraud, declined his claim 
and cancelled his cover. Mr P complained to us. 
Our Investigator didnt think Admiral had done enough to justify a finding of fraud against 
Mr P. She said that, amongst other things, it should reinstate the cover, and consider the 
claim. 
Admiral said it disagreed. Admiral said Mr P had been very clear with it that he had locked 
the car when he left it. And yet there was no sign of forced entry to the car. It felt its decision 
that Mr P had likely misled it was fair and reasonable. It also said it was likely Mr P had not 
held a valid driving licence.
Our Investigator reviewed matters. Regarding the driving licence she noted that Admiral 
itself had accepted that Mr P had not misrepresented to it the type of licence he had. And 
she noted that given the circumstances of the claim, that Mr Ps licence type wouldnt have 
made a difference. Regarding the fraud, in summary, our Investigator said Admiral had not 
shown that Mr P likely knew the car was unlocked whilst saying it was locked. 
The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  Admiral has not done enough to show that its 
decision to accuse Mr P of fraud was fair and reasonable. As such Im upholding this 
complaint and making awards in line with the views issued by our Investigator. 
Admiral, in responding to our Investigator, brought up an issue about Mr Ps licence. 
I understand that Mr P was asked about this when he initially called Admiral. And I think that 
was reasonable. But I also understand that since then Admiral decided that really it had no 
issue with the licence in terms of policy liability  it did not think Mr P had misrepresented his 
licence details to it. And as Mr P wasnt driving at the time of the incident that led to the 
claim, the licence did not have any impact on the claim. But also, when Admiral declined the 
claim on grounds of fraud, it did not look to reserve its rights to review the licencing position 
further. I think that reflects the fact that it had decided this was not an issue for it. It also 
means that it cant fairly or reasonably bring this up now, or later, as a bar to the claim being 
settled. When Admiral reviews the claim, it wont be able to rely on anything in respect of the 
licence to remove or restrict its liability for settlement. 
Like our Investigator, I dont think Admiral has done enough here to show Mr P most likely 
acted fraudulently. Admiral knows that in matters of fraud, this service expects insurers to 
provide some clear, strong proof to support such an allegation. I think Admiral simple has not 
done that here.
Fraud is essentially where a policyholder misleads the insurer with an intent to gain a benefit 
they would not otherwise be entitled to under the policy. Most car insurance policies will 
require a car to be locked when it is left, and if it is not and something happens then it may 
well be that any claim would be declined. So insurers will often want a policyholder to tell 
them if the car was locked or not when it was left  as Admiral did here. An insurer will then 
likely look to see whether its most likely the car was locked. If the insurer finds that it wasnt, 
but the policyholder said it was, then that is going to be a concern for the insurer, as it was 
for Admiral here. And I can understand that Admiral needed to investigate that. So I think 
that Admirals concerns and enquiries in this respect were reasonable. But the policyholder 
saying the car was locked, and the car possibly being unlocked at the time of the incident, 
does not necessarily mean that the policyholder deliberately misled the insurer about the car 
having been locked when they left it.
Here Mr P was relatively consistent with his account of the circumstances relevant to this 
incident. I think its fair to say that there are some differences between the accounts  but 
I bear in mind that the method by which the accounts were given varied  one was an on-line 
record, and two were verbal. It is also clear that Mr Ps English, verbally at least, is very 
limited. During both verbal accounts an interpreter was used, initially Mr Ps friend and 
during the second verbal account, a professional translator. I think the differences in any of 
the accounts can be explained because of Mr Ps limited English, the difference in the way 
the accounts were given and that with better translation more, and more specific, details 
were able to be gained from Mr P. 
The issue really is that Mr P told Admiral the car was definitely locked  not just that he 
believed it was locked. He said he checked the doors. But Admiral thinks that cant be true. 
Admiral had an engineer check the car. The engineer found that there was no sign of forced 
entry to the car, including that there was no damage to the door locks or frames. So Admiral 
has concluded that this must mean that the car was unlocked when the criminal/s came 
across it  that Mr P must have given it incorrect information when he said he had locked it. 
But Im not convinced that Admirals conclusion that the car must have bene unlocked is 
robust enough, not based as it is only on the engineers comments about signs of force. In 
saying that Im conscious that there are many methods by which criminals might gain access 
to a car, and that some of those wont cause any damage to the car itself, including the 
locking mechanism. 
I know Admiral also has concerns that the car was locked when Mr P returned home and 
found it full of smoke. Admiral thinks it is unlikely that a criminal, having set fire to the car 
would have taken the time to lock it again, and if they had, that would also have meant 
theyd had a key. But I note that Admirals investigators felt that the fire may have damaged 
the wiring, causing the door to lock when it otherwise wouldnt have, that damage like this 
could also have affected the use of the fob for unlocking purposes. And that Admirals 
engineer confirmed damage to the wiring. All of which accords with Mr Ps account of finding the car  that the door was locked and that he tried the fob but had to use the key blade to 
unlock it manually.   
In my view, Admiral has not shown that Mr Ps car was likely left unlocked at the time of the 
incident  that he knew this was the case and that he tried to mislead Admiral by stating the 
car was, in fact, locked. As I said above, Admiral has not shown that its accusation of fraud 
has been fairly and reasonably made. It will now have to act to put that right.
I know Mr P was also concerned about Admiral having disposed of his car. Admirals 
actions, and the impact on Mr P in this respect, though were all tied into the fact that it was 
declining the claim for fraud. But I am now making Admiral consider Mr Ps claim  and that 
may or may not result in Mr P getting settlement for his car. So, if, once Admiral has made 
its further decision on the claim, Mr P feels he has incurred a loss because of the claim 
outcome in light of the fact his car was disposed of, he can make a further complaint.
 
Putting things right
Mr P has been disadvantaged by Admirals unfair and unreasonable claim decision. He has 
also been caused distress and inconvenience. Being accused of fraud in itself is upsetting 
but it, along with the record of the cancellation affected by Admiral, has also meant that Mr P 
has been unable to get insurance elsewhere, which has affected his ability to drive. To make 
this right I require Admiral to:
Remove the record of the fraud from its own and any industry database.
Amend the cancellation record to show the policy was cancelled by Mr P  on its own 
and any industry database.
Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr P £10 per day from 19 March 2022, plus 8% simple interest on each amount, 
from each date it is payable on, until settlement is made.
Pay Mr P £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman