DRN-3980819
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd handled his request to 
switch his ISA investments to a new fund. He says there were delays and the handling 
caused him inconvenience and impacted his wellbeing. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr S wrote to Virgin to ask for his existing investments to be transferred to 
a Climate Change fund. Mr S chased the fund switch over the following months, before 
eventually on 6 June 2022 the fund switch was completed.
On 8 July 2022, Virgin wrote to Mr S to confirm it had arranged a price comparison to be 
carried out between 15 February 2022 and 6 June 2022 to ensure he had not been
financially disadvantaged by its delays in completing the fund switch. This resulted in Virgin 
adding additional units to the ISAs as there had been a loss identified. It also sent him a 
cheque for £100 as an ex-gratia compensation payment. 
Mr S continued to query whether the fund swich had been correctly completed and in 
September 2022 he wrote again raising concerns about the six months of hassle he had 
been through trying to get it sorted. 
Virgin responded to the complaint. It confirmed it had compensated Mr S for the delays by 
buying additional units. It also acknowledged the concerns and thanked Mr S for bringing 
them to its attention. 
Mr S remained unsatisfied with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She acknowledged 
that the fund switch had been delayed and Virgin should have dealt with things better. But 
she thought it had already fairly compensated Mr S for the problems he incurred, so didnt 
recommend any further compensation. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He reiterated his concerns that he had wasted 
time and money over many months trying to get everything sorted. He says Virgin has 
provided false information. He also raised a further point about still not receiving the bi-
annual payments from the fund into his bank account as he requested. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from the submissions of both parties that the fund switch that Mr S requested in 
February 2022, wasnt handled in the way it should have been. While I havent detailed 
everything thats happened, I want to reassure Mr S that I have read everything he has told 
us about the problems he encountered in making the fund switch. Because Virgin has 
accepted that it did make errors and caused delays, I will focus on whether the subsequent 
actions it has taken fairly compensates Mr S for its errors. 
I also note that Mr Ss wife was seeking to make a similar fund switch to investment held in 
her name. I note correspondence was sent at times on behalf of each other regarding the 
switch, which is understandable given they are a married couple making the same request. 
While they both have separate complaints (because their investments were held 
individually), in reaching my decision Ive taken into account the fact their dealings with 
Virgin were often on a joint basis or on behalf of one another. 
Firstly, with regard to financially loss, Im satisfied that Virgin has taken the appropriate steps 
to compensate Mr S for any loss caused by the delays in completing the fund switch. The 
fund switch should have been completed in February 2022 shortly after the first request was 
made. But due to delays it wasnt completed until the 6 June 2022. Virgin has accepted 
responsibility for the delays. It looked at whether Mr S would have been able to purchase 
more units using the value of his investments if there were no delays. Its calculation shows 
that he would have received more units in the Climate Change fund in February 2022 than 
he actually did when the switch completed in June 2022. This is his financial loss. To 
compensate him it purchased the additional units on 15 July 22 and added them to his 
investments. Im satisfied this method fairly compensates Mr S for the loss he suffered due 
to the delay because he now has the same number of units as should have received if the 
switch was completed in February 2022  as it should have been. 
Mr S has provided details of the practical and emotional impact Virgins handling of the 
situation has caused him and his wife. I have considered all of the evidence provided by Mr 
S. I can see that he has suffered inconvenience in needing to chase things up and arranging 
for many letters to be sent to seek clarification. He has also provided information on how the 
whole situation has impacted his wellbeing, particularly causing worry about what was going 
on. I do think it is appropriate for Virgin to compensate him for this. Virgin has clarified that it 
has made a payment to him totally £100 in compensation for this. As mentioned, Mr Ss wife 
was also corresponding with Virgin regarding the fund switches they were both making. I 
note she has also been offered compensation individually as part of her complaint.  Ive 
considered the impact of Virgins action on Mr S, overall, I find that compensation offered to 
him to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Lastly, I note that Mr S has made submissions and queries whether Virgin has set up and 
made payments to him to provide income from the new fund. He has mentioned he was 
expecting to receive bi-annual payments into his back account. Virgin has clarified that the 
Climate Change fund is a distribution fund. This means any income earned by the fund is 
reinvested, and no income would be paid to clients (unlike Mr Ss previous fund). Virgin says 
this information was included in the key investor information document (KIID). Ive reviewed 
this document and see that it does confirm that income from the funds would be reinvested  
and Ive seen nothing to suggest bi-annual income would be paid to Mr S. Ive also seen 
evidence in a letter signed by Mr S on 31 May 2022 that he had reviewed the KIID. So, while 
I appreciate that Mr S was expecting to receive income payments, this isnt something that is 
a feature of the fund he selected. It follows that I havent found that Virgin has made an error 
by not making payments or setting them up to be paid to Mr Ss bank account. But rather Ive 
found the new fund operates differently to the previous fund Mr S was invested in which did 
make income payments. 
In conclusion, I find Virgin failed to handle Mr Ss fund switch in a timely manner. It has 
ensured he hasnt been disadvantaged by the delays by completing a unit comparison and 
adding additional units to his investments. It has also offered compensation to reflect the 
impact of its handling of the request. I find the actions taken to cover any financial loss and 
the level of compensation offered to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
understand the compensation was paid by cheque, but Im unsure of this has been cashed 
by Mr S. If the cheque hasnt (or cant) been cashed then Virgin should cancel and reissue it, so Mr S receives the compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is the actions taken my Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd to compensate 
Mr S are fair and reasonable in resolution of the complaint. I do not require it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman