DRN-3468586
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC when she reported the passing of
her husband and switched bank account.
Mrs C is being represented in bringing this complaint by a family member, however I have
referred to Mrs C throughout this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case because I intended to increase the 
compensation award to £1,500. I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with 
anything else they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In April 2021, Mrs C went into a branch of Lloyds to go through her direct debits and to
switch her account from the joint to a sole account. During the meeting, Mrs C let Lloyds
know that her husband had passed away very recently.
The member of staff in branch let Mrs C know that the bereavement team would contact her
within five days to discuss a number of accounts held by her husband and the contents of a
private box, which her husband had deposited at the bank some years prior. Mrs C says she
didnt hear from the bereavement team within five days and so she made steps to contact
them herself.
Then, a couple of weeks later, Mrs C says she received a text from her mobile phone
provider saying that it would end her contract at midnight. After Mrs C called the mobile
phone provider, she was told its decision to end the contract was because the direct debit
hadnt gone through.
Mrs C then contacted Lloyds to get more information about this. She was told that both of
her accounts had been closed because it had been notified by a different company Ill refer
to as D, that she had passed away.
Mrs C says she was told repeatedly by Lloyds that D had told it to close her accounts. But
Mrs C says she contacted the D herself, who advised her that theyd never tell a bank to
close an account, and that it hadnt notified Lloyds that she had passed away. Mrs C says
Lloyds reassured her that all of her direct debits had been set back up on the account  and
so she wouldnt have any further problems, however she says this wasnt the case Lloyds
and she had to spend a considerable amount of time on the phone to different providers to
get this reset.
Following Mrs Cs direct debits being incorrectly cancelled, Mrs C says that she experienced
the below issues:
A cheque Mrs C sent to the funeral directors hadnt been paid from her account.
Her debit cards were cancelled, which meant she didnt have any access to money 
and she couldnt do any online shopping for groceries.
Mrs C says she was told by the council that her husbands widows pension had been 
blocked.
Mrs Cs state pension had also been blocked and she hadnt been paid this for 
several weeks.
Shes said that her credit rating went to zero which meant she couldnt apply for a 
credit card (however this was quickly rectified by Lloyds).
The police contacted Mrs C to let her know that her car had been spotted on the road 
without insurance.
She wasnt able to get her boiler repaired because her Home Care direct debit had 
stopped collecting and so the contract had been cancelled.
A different provider said they would charge her £1,500 for a cancelled contract.
She received a letter to say that dividends couldnt be paid into her account.
As a result of the above, Mrs C says she spent many hours on the phone to Lloyds and
other providers to resolve the payment issues. Some of the issues shes faced with the
providers have taken a long time to rectify. Mrs C says this whole situation has caused her a
huge amount of distress- she has felt frightened and isolated at a time that was already
incredibly difficult for Mrs C, given the passing of her husband.
Mrs C complained to Lloyds. Lloyds initially responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong.
It said it received notification from D that Mrs C had passed away and so it followed the
correct process and blocked the account.
Lloyds then contacted Mrs C again at a later date to say it had re-reviewed the complaint
and found that D hadnt in fact notified it of Mrs Cs passing. And that this was an error on
Lloyds part. To say sorry, Lloyds offered Mrs C £300. But Mrs C didnt think this was
enough.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs C. He decided to uphold the complaint. The
investigator felt that Lloyds actions had had a significant impact on Mrs C and so the
compensation award should be increased to £1000 (in total).
Lloyds agreed to this. However, Mrs C didnt think this was enough for the below main
reasons:
£1,000 compensation is petty cash to a bank and doesnt fully reflect the problems 
she and her son faced trying to resolve the issues caused by Lloyds. Mrs C is 
concerned that that the low amount of compensation offered means that her 
complaint will be dealt with at branch level and not at head office.
Several people Mrs C has spoken to about what has happened feels that £1,000 
compensation for what she has been through is too low.
Because Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my current intention to uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mrs Cs situation. Its clear that shes been through
a very difficult time which has, understandably, caused her much upset. In reaching myconclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mrs C has found
herself in. Ive no doubt it was a truly horrible time for her. And Im sure the impact of the
error caused by Lloyds has made an already bad situation much worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. Its probably also worth noting here that it isnt the role of this service to punish or
fine businesses. I understand that Mrs C wants compensation at a level that will have a
financial impact on Lloyds  any level of compensation will have some financial impact. But
this services role is to look at the impact that the error, if any error occurred, had on that
particular consumer with their particular circumstances.
Mrs C is being represented by a family member in bringing her complaint. And I understand
that the family member has been very involved in supporting Mrs C in trying to resolve the
matter. Clearly Mrs Cs representative has been impacted by what has happened too, but I
dont have the power to take into account the impact to Mrs Cs family when considering a
compensation award  I can only take into account the impact to Mrs C herself.
Lloyds has already said that it made an error in closing Mrs Cs bank accounts. It initially
thought that it had received information from the D that lead to this action, but it has since
become apparent that this error was actually down to something Lloyds has done wrong. 
Given that there doesnt appear to be a dispute about the underlying facts here, I will now
decide if the offer accepted by Lloyds of £1,000 is enough to put things right for Mrs C.
The circumstances surrounding Mrs Cs situation are particularly important in this case. Her
husband of many years had recently passed away. Before any error had been made, Mrs C
was already feeling very upset, distressed and likely vulnerable, given that she was now
having to cope with living without her husband after so long, which is a big adjustment.
Lloyds has sent this service evidence to show that all direct debits and standing orders were
cancelled on her account  this happened on 5 May 2021. The account was also blocked so
the ability to make payments from the account with a debit card or receive money into the
account was withdrawn. Which has inevitably led to problems for Mrs C.
It is of course difficult to put a price on what Mrs C has been through. Not only has she had
to go through the distress of the possibility of essential services being cut off (phone, TV,
electricity, insurances), but shes also had money that was due to be paid into her account
not go through because credits to the account were also blocked. Shes experienced a lot of
inconvenience while trying to resolve these issues  in both contacting Lloyds and the
providers. Shes experienced embarrassment and upset when a cheque wasnt paid to the
funeral director. And I have no doubt that the letter she received from the police was 
shocking and distressing. On top of this, her debit cards had also been cancelled which
meant she couldnt buy groceries online  which was of course very important to her given
that all these things happened in the midst of a pandemic when people were understandably
anxious about going outside of their home to shop.
I do think the impact Lloyds error had on Mrs C has been significant. And it follows that I
dont think the £300 it offered her originally is enough to compensate her for what shes been
through.
Lloyds agreed to increase the compensation amount to £1,000 in total following our
Investigators view. So, I will now decide if this is a fair amount to compensate Mrs C  and
given the particular set of circumstances in this case, I dont think it is.
From what Ive seen, Mrs C hasnt been impacted financially as a result of what Lloyds has
done wrong  what I mean by this is that Lloyds hasnt caused her a financial loss. So thecompensation award relates to the distress and inconvenience Lloyds actions caused her.
Our website gives examples of different levels of compensation that this service will likely
award in certain example scenarios  these are a helpful guide for all parties when
considering what might be fair compensation. Ive thought about this in the context of the
impact Lloyds actions had on Mrs C. And in doing so, I think the most relevant
compensation award is the one below:
An award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could be fair where the impact of a
business's mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry  even potentially a
serious offence or humiliation. There may have been serious disruption to daily life over a
sustained period, with the impact felt over many months, sometimes over a year. It could
also be fair to award in this range if the business's actions resulted in a substantial shortterm
impact.
Examples at the higher end could include where the effects of the mistake are irreversible or
have a lasting impact on someones health or even resulted in a personal injury
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mrs C has suffered substantial distress because of Lloyds
actions  this was very clear from listening to the call she had with our Investigator and
taking into account that the error came at the same time Mrs Cs husband had passed away.
I also think there has been a disruption to Mrs Cs daily life while her account was reopened,
and direct debits reset. Lloyds said that it had reset the direct debits on the account, but from
what I understand, Mrs C actually had to make a lot of phone calls to the providers to ensure
the reset had taken place, and to deal with the non-payment issues. Mrs C has also said that
some of the providers had been very unhelpful in helping her resolve the matter  and while I
appreciate the actions of other providers arent the responsibility of Lloyds, Mrs C wouldnt
have ended up in this situation if it hadnt been for the error Lloyds made.
Mrs C has said that Lloyds actions have impacted on her mental health  and I think this too
is understandable. Shes said that what happened brought her to tears, suffered acute
distress, been frightened and felt isolated  all at a time when she was grieving her
late husband who had passed away only four weeks prior to Lloyds closing her
account.
Having thought carefully about all of this  also taking into account the guidance available on
our website which I referred to above  I think Lloyds should compensate Mrs C £1,500 in
total to reflect the impact this situation has had on her.
I know its possible that Mrs C wont feel that this amount fully reflects what she has been
through  and the reality is, that no amount of compensation can unwind what has happened
and how this made Mrs C feel at the time. And I really do empathise with what happened.
But I do think overall this is a fair figure for the issues that have happened  and is in line
with what wed usually award in circumstances similar to those of Mrs C.
Mrs C responded to say that she accepted the findings in the provisional decision. 
Lloyds responded to say it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that neither party has anything else for me to consider, I see no reason to depart of 
the findings in my provisional decision. It follows that Im still of the view that Lloyds needs to 
do more to put things right for Mrs C.
Putting things right
Lloyds needs to pay Mrs C a total of £1,500 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions caused her. Lloyds can deduct any payment it may have already 
made to Mrs C from this total. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman