DRN-2773419
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that RiverStone Insurance Limited hasnt 
accepted an employers liability claim. Mrs B, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on 
its behalf. 
What happened
Last year an individual made a claim against B and said it was responsible for asbestosis 
caused by work carried out between 1961 and 1963. B provided policy numbers which it 
believed showed it had employers liability insurance for the relevant period with a different 
insurer. It said responsibility for this had transferred to RiverStone. 
RiverStone accepted it was responsible for any employers liability policies issued by the 
business B said it had been insured with. But it also said it had carried out an extensive 
search of its records which dated back to the early 1900s and hadnt found any policies in 
the name of B for the relevant period. It said it also searched the database held by the 
Employers Liability Tracing Office which hadnt provided any results either. 
Our investigator thought RiverStone had carried out appropriate searches. As that hadnt 
identified cover was in place for B, he didnt think it had done anything wrong in saying it 
wasnt responsible for the claim. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said at the time B required employers liability insurance because of 
the work it was doing. It had no need for other insurance. So she didnt think the policy 
numbers shed provided for the relevant period could relate to anything else. She also 
provided an invoice from 1964 showing a payment for a policy described as EL insurance. 
And she provided historic insurance certificates dating back to 1968 showing B had 
employers liability cover in place. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has made clear the extremely difficult situation the claim against B has caused and I 
appreciate the potential implications if cover for that claim cant be established. I also accept 
that, given the length of time thats passed since the period which the claim relates to 
(around 60 years), its difficult to now establish exactly what cover was in place. 
But the question I need to consider is whether RiverStone acted appropriately on receipt of 
the claim that had been made to it. The relevant rules require that insurers must take 
reasonable steps to conduct effective searches of their records when they receive a request 
to carry out a search for a historical policy.
RiverStone has provided details of how, in general terms, it carries out historic searches of 
this nature. And I understand RiverStone has acted in line with that approach. Its searched 
its records using the policy numbers provided by Mrs B and the insured name and address 
of B both at the time of the alleged incident and at any time since. None of those searches 
have identified an employers liability policy was in place at the time. 
And while the evidence supplied by Mrs B included a letter from the original insurer which 
referenced two policy numbers it doesnt say what those policies relate to. Our investigator 
queried why RiverStone hadnt been able to find any record of those policies. It said only 
employers liability and public liability policies transferred over to it from the previous insurer. 
So if the policies B held related to other cover it wouldnt have a record of those. 
Mrs B says B had no need for any other type of insurance. And the type of work B was doing 
at the time required employers liability cover to be in place. So she thought the policy 
numbers shed supplied must relate to that (and public liability cover). But I think its possible 
other insurance could have been in place; for example personal accident, tools and 
machinery or life cover. And while there may have been a need for B to hold employers 
liability cover at the time that doesnt mean the cover was held through the insurer for which 
RiverStone is now responsible.
Mrs B has also provided an invoice for an insurance payment in 1964 which contains a 
policy number and refers to this as EL. I think it likely that does stand for employers liability 
which suggests cover may have been in place from that date. But I dont think it shows cover 
for which RiverStone was responsible was in place for the earlier period. The policy number 
quoted on this document is significantly different to that on the earlier one. And theres also 
no indication of who the insurer is. The earliest document Mrs B has been able to provide 
which shows employers liability cover was in place is from 1968 and that was with a 
different insurer.  
Looking at whats happened here I think RiverStone took reasonable steps to search its 
records when it received the claim against B. That didnt show B had employers liability 
cover for the relevant period. And for the reasons Ive explained I dont think the other 
information Mrs B has been able to provide is sufficient to suggest otherwise. Of course, if 
Mrs B is able to provide further evidence then Id expect RiverStone to consider that. But I 
dont think it acted unfairly in deciding, on the basis of the information it does have, that this 
wasnt a claim it was responsible for. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman