DRN-3170259
The complaint
Miss R has complained about a loan provided to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading 
as Everyday Loans, (ELL). She said that the loan was unaffordable for her and ELL was 
wrong to have agreed to it. 
  
What happened
ELL agreed a loan for Miss R on 19 April 2011. The loan was for £3,000 and was repayable 
by 35 monthly payments of £276.19 (according to the loan agreement). The interest rate on 
the loan was 77.9%, (128.4% APR). If Miss R made each repayment when it was due, she 
would pay £9,942.84 in total. Miss R received £2,700 from the loan proceeds which was to 
be used to buy a car. The remaining £300 was used to pay part of a credit card balance.
Miss R said that when she took out the loan, her credit rating was poor. She feels that
adequate checks werent done by ELL, and as she was already in debt giving her this loan 
made her situation worse than before. Due to the high payments she ended up defaulting on 
the loan, incurring charges and having debt collectors chase her for the money. This also 
damaged her credit score. She ended up ignoring calls and letters hoping it would go away 
as well as having an emotional and mental breakdown.
ELL said in its final response letter that during a loan sale its checks included: 
- Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account 
- Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip 
- Conducting a credit search with a credit reference agency 
- Carrying out a job check 
ELL saw that Miss R had two part-time jobs and noted a monthly total salary of around £944. 
ELL also saw that Miss R received benefits and that her total monthly income was around 
£2,361. The lender also said that Miss R was paying monthly mortgage payments of around 
£368. As part of its underwriting, ELL said it used 35% of a customers net income to 
calculate an approximate personal expenditure. It also added £80 expenditure per child. ELL 
calculated Miss Rs monthly financial commitments together with her general living expenses 
as £1,582.46. ELLs affordability calculation at the time showed Miss R had a monthly 
disposable income of £356.81 after taking into account ELLs loan repayment and the credit 
to be consolidated by its loan. It believed the checks completed were reasonable and 
proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the loan term as Miss R had a 
disposable income. ELL believed Miss R would have been able to make the repayments to 
her loan without undue difficulty over the life of the credit agreement. 
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss R responded to say that she disagreed. She said that if ELL had looked at her credit file 
at the time, it would have shown that she had made several loan applications which were 
rejected due to credit issues. Miss R also noted that ELL had sight of her bank statements 
which showed that her account was in overdraft constantly and she queried how the loan 
could have been deemed affordable if she was living on an overdraft month to month.      
Miss R said that her overdraft use suggested that she wasnt able to meet her existing 
financial commitments. Therefore, further lending was highly likely to make her financial 
situation worse. 
Miss R also said that she had some adverse credit history, made numerous credit 
applications and her accumulating debt was due to being in financial stress. ELLs credit 
checks showed that she had a significant credit balance, so more questions should have 
been asked and bank statements better scrutinised to ensure she could take on the loan. 
ELL should have raised questions as to why her account was in overdraft every month yet 
when ELL had calculated her income and outgoings, it showed she had a disposable 
income, but her bank statements said otherwise. Her bank statements showed that her 
salary varied each month, which was due to her not having fixed hours as work was not 
always guaranteed. Miss R thought that the information on her bank statements showed that 
she was struggling to repay her existing debts and basic living costs and further lending 
would therefore be unsustainable for her. If ELL had made further checks namely to ask 
what her committed and living expenditure was at the time and had sought to verify exactly 
where the different funds in her account were coming from as well as where they were going 
to, it was likely they wouldve seen that the repayments on the agreement werent affordable.
Miss R asked for her complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. 
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to ELL on 20 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that I was sorry to hear that Miss R had suffered health difficulties. 
I noted that the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Miss R borrowed from 
ELL. The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) said that for all loans, ELL needed to check that the borrower could afford 
to meet their repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Miss R being able to meet her 
repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks ELL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not she would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
Id highlighted some of the relevant guidance in my decision. 
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated: 
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. Paragraph 4.3 stated: 
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
  without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
  over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
  out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets. 
And Paragraph 4.4 described undue difficulty: 
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
  while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings; and
  without having to borrow further to meet these repayments. 
ILG 4.15 noted that the regulator did not consider self-certification of income would 
generally be sufficient in respect of significant long term credit agreements
ILG 4.18 to 4.33 set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices relating 
to how businesses assess affordability. 
ILG 4.20 said this would include where a lender was: 
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or cases.
ILG 4.21 gave another example: 
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess affordability, prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement) 
And ILG 4.26 said a business would be acting irresponsibly if: 
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
ILG 4.29 and 4.31 dealt with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the customer. 
ILG 4.29 said it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender: 
Fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct. 
Altogether, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks:-
 - the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); - the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 - the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was likely 
to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended period). 
Did ELL make a fair lending decision when it agreed to give Miss R the loan?
ELL did a number of checks before it lent to Miss R. It obtained payslips for two months, 
some bank statements, a letter from HMRC about Miss Rs benefits and it carried out a 
credit check. ELL used the results of its credit check to calculate Miss Rs credit 
commitments. It noted that Miss R had a mortgage and estimated Miss Rs other living 
expenses as set out above. 
I could see why ELL would think the loan repayment would be affordable based on what it 
had calculated. But I didnt think its checks were proportionate and I thought it should have 
gathered more information than it did for the following reasons.
Id noted ELLs credit checks before the loan. I could see that Miss R had three credit cards. 
Two of these were over their respective credit limits and the third was near its credit limit. On 
one of the credit cards, Miss R appeared to have missed or made a late payment in four of 
the previous five months. On another card, Miss R appeared to have missed or made a late 
payment in the previous month and four months previously. On a loan, Miss R appeared to 
have missed a payment four months previously. I thought ELL ought to have been 
concerned about Miss Rs recent missed payments and the credit limits on two accounts 
being exceeded. I note that £300 was being paid from the loan proceeds to one of these 
accounts but that did not repay the whole balance on that account. And I thought these 
payment difficulties were inconsistent with the monthly disposable income of around £619 
which ELL had calculated. 
I also thought ELL would have been aware that the credit checks did not necessarily show 
all of Miss Rs credit commitments. 
I could also see that ELL had calculated that Miss Rs monthly credit commitments were 
£237.33 based on its credit checks. It appeared to have calculated Miss Rs credit card 
repayments using minimum repayment amounts. But such amounts werent enough for the 
card balances to be cleared within a reasonable period of time.
I also noted that ELL had seen some of the statements for Miss Rs two current accounts. 
Miss R had provided statements for one account for the period 11 February 2011 to           
28 February 2011 and statements for the second account for the period 2 February 2011 to 
1 April 2011. ELL appeared to have gone through these and noted income received and 
larger payments. But I thought ELL ought to have been concerned that it hadnt seen all of 
Miss Rs statements for one of her current accounts for a complete two months period. So, I 
didnt think it could have had a complete picture of Miss Rs financial situation from what it 
had seen.
I also noted that ELL saw Miss Rs payslips from two of her jobs for February and           
March 2011. The salary amount on both of these jobs varied in each of these months.     
Miss R said that she did agency work, and the hours varied so her income wasnt 
guaranteed. I also noted that one employing company included owed wages on its payslip 
(in one case £119.63) so I didnt think ELL could rely on the salary amounts shown in the 
payslips as being guaranteed income going forward.Miss R was also in receipt of benefits which formed more than half her overall income. ELL 
had seen a provisional award letter for 2010/2011. But I could see that the award was based 
on annual earnings of £5,000 and the letter said that the award would decrease if Miss Rs 
income had increased. It seemed from the payslips ELL saw that Miss Rs annual earned 
income was over £5,000. So, I didnt think ELL could rely on the amount of benefits income 
shown in that letter being correct going forward.
ELL calculated a disposable income of around £619. I was concerned that ELL seemed to 
have accepted at face value that Miss R had a monthly disposable income of some £619 a 
month when the bank statements it had seen showed her account rarely in credit and near 
the overdraft limit at some point in each month. I thought this suggested that Miss R was 
having difficulty managing her money. 
Altogether, I didnt think ELLs checks went far enough given Miss Rs circumstances. It 
didnt seem to have used the bank statements it had to verify Miss Rs living costs rather 
than using an estimated figure for her living expenses. ELL didnt have a complete picture of 
Miss Rs financial situation because it didnt have full monthly statements for both current 
accounts and I thought it needed further evidence of Miss Rs financial circumstances in 
view of the repayment issues and overlimit accounts shown in its credit checks. This was so 
ELL could assure itself of Miss Rs true financial position and that she could make the loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. As I couldnt see that it had done this, Id said that I would 
need to consider what ELL would have seen if it had carried out further checks.
Id looked at Miss Rs bank statements and asked the investigator to ask Miss R for some 
more information about her situation to see what better checks would have shown ELL.
Miss R had provided this Service with the bank statements that ELL hadnt seen that Id 
referred to above. She had also provided some bank statements for April 2011. I wasnt 
suggesting that these were the checks that ELL should have done. And I accepted different 
checks might show different things. But in the absence of anything else from ELL showing 
what this information would have shown, I thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Miss Rs financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time.
Id reviewed Miss Rs spending on the statements. There were a number of cash 
withdrawals and Id asked the investigator to ask Miss R for more information about these. 
Miss R said she was using cash to pay for child care until February 2011, school clubs, 
utilities and car repairs. Taking this expenditure and all of Miss Rs existing (and ongoing) 
financial commitments and reasonably identifiable spend on, food and household, car and 
petrol costs, internet, nursery costs and clothing into account didnt leave her with sufficient 
disposable income to repay ELLs loan and for her to have enough money to meet any 
unexpected costs. Id also noted that just four days before ELLs loan, Miss R had taken out 
a payday loan for £300 to supplement her income. So, had ELL considered fully the 
information it had received and enquired further into Miss Rs financial situation, I thought it 
reasonably ought to have suspected that the loan was likely to be unsustainable. And so I 
considered ELL was irresponsible to have agreed it. 
So, I thought ELL had made an unfair lending decision here and subject to any further 
representations by Miss R or ELL, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this 
complaint and say that ELL needed to put things right as shown below. 
. 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan account has been closed with part of the loan balance written off. I 
can also see from the loan account statement that Miss Rs total payments exceeded the principal amount of £3,000 borrowed on the loan. In order to put Miss R back into the 
position she would have been had the loan not been agreed for her, ELL needs to ensure 
that Miss R only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Miss R shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount of £3,000 she borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Miss R has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) as Miss R has made payments above the capital amount of £3,000, then these should be 
refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts 
calculated from the date these overpayments were paid to the date of settlement*; and
c) remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss R responded to my provisional decision to say she was satisfied with the outcome.
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Miss R and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require ELL to pay Miss R some compensation and take the steps set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to pay Miss R some 
compensation and take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  
what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman