DRN-2710156
The complaint
Mr T complains about how he was treated by Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited.
What happened
Mr T says he had two credit card debts that were taken over by Cabot. He says Cabot 
contacted him in early 2020 and was rude towards him during telephone calls. He also says 
it was asking him to repay the debts that were statute barred and asked him to obtain 
medical evidence about his health problems, which would have been difficult during the 
pandemic. Mr T says he was caused frustration and distress and would like £500 
compensation.
Cabot accepts it didnt deal appropriately with Mr T and his accounts. It has apologised and 
offered £250 compensation. Cabot says it didnt deal appropriately with Mr T in one of the 
calls between them and ought to have considered closing the accounts earlier.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the compensation offer 
fair and reasonable. The investigator accepted Cabot hadnt dealt with Mr T appropriately 
and that he was caused distress and worry but didnt think the compensation offer ought to 
be increased.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and maintains he should be paid further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Cabot has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no doubt here that Cabot didnt deal appropriately with Mr T during parts of this 
complaint and so there is no need for me to repeat those matters. I accept that Cabot could 
have told Mr T far earlier than it did that it would close the accounts, and it accepts it spoke 
inappropriately to Mr T in one of the calls. I have no doubt in those circumstances Mr T was 
caused frustration and inconvenience as well as distress.
The key issue is the level of compensation Cabot should pay. And overall, I think its 
compensation offer fair and reasonable. I dont think Mr T suffered any financial loss and I 
think during parts of the complaint Cabot was fairly trying to help Mr T. I dont think an 
increase to the compensation offered is justified.
I appreciate how strongly Mr T feels about what took place and so I will leave it to him to 
decide if he wishes to accept the compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £250. Mr Ts acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman