DRN-3888370
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S complain about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled their claim on their 
home insurance policy. 
While Mr M and Mr S are joint policyholders, for ease of reading Ive referred only to Mr S 
throughout this decision. However all references to Mr S include the actions of Mr M.
What happened
Mr S parents had a home insurance policy to cover the property they lived in. The property 
suffered from subsidence and in 2006 they made a claim. Work was carried out on the 
foundations to repair the property. However in 2014 the problem recurred and they made 
another claim.
During the time of the claim Mr S parents both very sadly died, so as the executers of their 
wills the property and insurance policy was transferred into his name. 
Fairmead accepted the claim. In the process of investigation, it discovered the repairs 
carried out previously had been done poorly. It also identified three trees that it thought were 
the likely cause of the ongoing problem. Initially it pursued a tree management programme in 
order to address the issue. However this took some time as some of the trees had tree 
preservation orders against them and they were all owned by third parties.  
However in 2019 one of the trees was felled and in 2021 another was removed. Following 
this a period of monitoring was carried out and the property appeared to have stabilised 
initially. However before repairs began additional movement was recorded, which showed 
the tree mitigation hadnt resolved the issue. Due to this Fairmead made the decision to 
move to an underpinning solution instead. 
Mr S was unhappy with how the claim had been handled to date. He said the underpinning 
should have been carried out initially when the claim was accepted rather than Fairmead 
pursuing the cheaper option of tree mitigation. He said if it had then the claim would likely be 
resolved by now. He said because it hadnt he had had to pay ongoing bills and 
maintenance for the property which Fairmead should now pay for. He also said he would 
likely have either rented out the property or moved into it and rented out his current 
residence, so he had lost out on rental income because of the poor claim management. 
He made a complaint which Fairmead upheld. It agreed it had caused some delays and poor 
service. It offered a total of £2,000 compensation to apologise. However it said his costs and 
losses werent covered under the policy so these wouldnt be reimbursed. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he agreed there had been some delays and poor service but thought Fairmeads offer 
of £2,000 was a fair one. And he didnt think it had acted unfairly by pursuing the mitigation 
options it did. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and poor service
I can see this claim has been ongoing for some time, so I can understand Mr S frustration at 
the progress. And I understand that during this time he lost both of his parents and took on 
the claim himself which has no doubt had a significant impact on him and would have 
caused distress.
Subsidence claims, by their nature, are distressing and inconvenient. They often take a very 
long time to resolve, involve multiple contractors and can require many months or years of 
monitoring before repairs can be carried out which means the conclusion to a claim can take 
some time. When considering a complaint I cant consider the impact the claim itself has had 
on the policyholder. Instead I can only consider whether the insurer has caused any 
unnecessary delays or provided poor service that has increased the distress of the claim. 
Here, Ive considered the timeline of the claim as well as looking at the reports produced by 
Fairmeads experts. And I think its followed a fair process in trying to resolve the claim. At 
the time the claim was resumed, all evidence suggested that the trees in the vicinity were the 
cause of the subsidence. And once mitigation on these began, the ground started to recover 
and the property stabilised. So I think it was reasonable that Fairmead pursued this option 
and continued to do so in the face of positive results. 
It wasnt until 2021/22 that the monitoring showed that the property was moving again. At 
this stage Fairmead concluded that the tree mitigation hadnt been successful and decided 
to pursue a different remedy. While I can appreciate that to Mr S this makes the previous 
years work seem like a waste of time, and in hindsight it may not have been the right course 
of action. However everything Ive seen shows Fairmead acted reasonably by pursuing this 
course of action at the time. As all monitoring results and advice from its experts supported 
it. When handling a claim, Id expect Fairmead to make decisions based on evidence and 
expert opinion and this is what it did. Because of this I cant say that Fairmead acted 
unreasonably by initially pursuing a tree mitigation solution.
Further, once the monitoring results showed continued movement it quickly moved to an 
underpinning solution instead, which was the fair thing to do in the circumstances.
Having said this, from looking at the case notes, I think Fairmead could have moved the 
claim forward more promptly at times during the claim. There were times when its focus was 
more on recovery of its costs from the previous contractor than on proactively moving the 
case forward and I think this delayed things slightly.
Further I can see it provided poor service to Mr S at times which would have been 
particularly distressing considering he was coping with bereavement at the time. For 
example it sent a letter addressed to his late mother to the property. And it left scaffolding up 
at the property for far longer than it should have been, causing Mr S to have to deal with 
complaints from the neighbours. 
Because of this, I agree that compensation is due. Fairmead has already offered £2,000 
compensation to apologise for the delays and poor service and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to pay anything more than that. Consequential losses
Mr S has explained that due to the ongoing claim he has been unable to either move into or 
rent out the property. This has meant he has been left having to cover bills and expenses for 
the property and has lost out on rental income he could have received. 
While I empathise with his position, as the policy doesnt cover for consequential losses, in 
order to say Fairmead should fairly cover these costs Id need to be persuaded that the claim 
had gone on for so long because of delays it had caused or its poor handling. As Ive 
concluded above, I think Fairmead has followed a fair and reasonable process for resolving 
the claim based on evidence. So I dont agree that the claim has been delayed significantly 
due to its actions. Therefore the costs and potential losses Mr S feels he has suffered are 
due to the unfortunate subsidence issues at the property, rather than being caused by 
Fairmeads actions. And as the policy doesnt offer cover for these costs, I cant reasonably 
ask Farimead to cover them. 
For these reasons, while I can see Fairmead caused some short delays and provided por 
service at times during the claim, I think its done enough by offering £2,000 compensation to 
make up for these. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr M and Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman