DRN-3905773
The complaint
Mr P and Miss P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the 
money they lost when Miss P fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them all here. But in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In March 2022, Miss P contacted someone on an online marketplace who was advertising 
pedigree puppies. She paid them £500 for what she thought was a deposit to buy a puppy. 
Unfortunately, this was a scam. Miss P realised this when the seller asked for additional 
payments, then blocked her when she asked for a refund. 
Miss P reported the scam to her bank, Halifax  which are a signatory of the Contingent 
reimbursement Model code (CRM code/the code). The CRM code requires signatories to 
reimburse customers who have been the victim of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
Halifax wouldnt refund Miss P. It said she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that 
the seller was legitimate, and had ignored its warning about the possibility this was a scam. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss P referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
broadly agreed with Halifaxs reasoning and didnt think it owed her a refund under the terms 
of the CRM code. Miss P has appealed so the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Miss P authorised this payment. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms of her and Mr Ps account, they are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But as Miss P was scammed into making this payment, Ive considered whether Halifax 
should have reimbursed her and Mr P under the provisions of the CRM code. And whether it 
ought to have done more to protect them from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Under the CRM code, a bank does not have to refund a customer if it can establish that the 
customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. There 
are further exceptions, but they do not apply to this case.
I appreciate that the scammer used dishonest tactics to persuade Miss P. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for 
genuine goods or that the person with whom she transacted was legitimate. Ive outlined 
the main reasons why I thought Miss P ought to have been concerned:
Buying a puppy is a significant purchase. I would reasonably expect someone to do 
research beforehand so they knew about the process and what they needed to 
check.
 Halifax reports that the full price agreed for the puppy  I understand this to be £700 
 was significantly lower than the breed Miss P wanted to buy is generally advertised 
for. This matches what Ive found. And Miss P seems to agree. She asked the seller 
if they were in a rush to sell, given how cheap the price was. 
The seller said they werent in a rush. They did say they only had a few left, so their 
husband had said to sell them cheaply. I dont find that a particularly persuasive 
reason for the price offered  which seems to be around half of the expected price. 
The contact with the seller seems relatively limited, consisting of messages on the 
social media platform for the marketplace. There wasnt, for example, a phone call. 
And the messages show Miss P asks the sellers name after making the payment 
(she was told the payee details she was given were for the sellers husband). 
There is mention in the chat of the seller being registered breeders. They also say 
they can provide a pedigree certificate and that the puppys vaccinations are up-to-
date. But it doesnt seem that documentation was asked for, or provided, to verify this
The only document Ive seen is a transfer of ownership form. And I think there were 
shortcomings in this which ought reasonably to have concerned Miss P.
oIt doesnt contain any of the sellers details, even though it is written as if the 
seller is making a declaration to release ownership of the puppy.
oIts stamped as being from the American Kennel Club and asked for American 
details such as the State and Zip. Even though the sale, and delivery of the 
puppy, was all meant to be taking place in the UK.
oThe age of the puppy is listed as 12 weeks 4 days. But the birthdate given, 
along with the date of the form, mean she would be just over five weeks old. 
That would also be very young for a puppy to leave its mother. 
Miss P also didnt see videos of the puppy she was buying. She did see one 
photograph of a puppy, but this didnt show it with its mother (or anyone else). So 
there wasnt much evidence that the seller actually had the puppy. 
Shes also provided a photograph of some dogs in crates in a van which the seller 
sent her. But this picture appears to show older dogs, and not the breed she was 
buying. Its also unclear why (in line with the accompanying message) the seller 
would have started packing them up already. Again, I think this was arguably quite 
concerning  to see so many, different dogs packed up together in that way. 
Miss P also spoke to the bank about the payment. It warned her that, as she hadnt 
met the puppy, it could be a scam. If so, it cautioned that she probably would not be 
able to get the money back. In response, Miss P confirmed that she was comfortable 
and wanted to proceed with the payment. These individual factors in isolation may not have been enough to have alerted Miss P to the 
risk. But considering them altogether, I think there were enough red flags that ought to have 
prompted her to take further steps to verify the seller. Based on what she knew, Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable to believe she was paying a legitimate seller for a puppy.    
Ive also considered if Halifax met its obligations. Once Miss P reported the scam to Halifax, 
it promptly contacted the receiving bank. But it wasnt able to recover any funds. 
Unfortunately, scammers tend to move funds on very quickly. So by the time Miss P reported 
the scam, a few days after making the payment, I dont think Halifax was able to recover this.
Ive also thought about whether it should reasonably have done more to prevent this scam. If 
a bank identifies an APP scam risk, in line with the CRM code, wed expect it to take 
reasonable steps to provide their customer with an effective warning. But this payment 
didnt meet the usual characteristics, or bar for when wed expect such a warning to be 
given. The value of the payment didnt appear particularly unusual or concerning.
That said, Ive taken into account that Halifax did speak to Miss P about the payment. When 
asked, she confirmed she was paying for a puppy and that she hadnt met it in person. And 
Halifax did warn that it could be a scam. It also made it clear that, if that were the case, its 
unlikely shed get the money back. I cant reasonably think what else Halifax should have 
mentioned, that Miss P wasnt already aware of (or ought not reasonably to have been 
aware of) that would have prevented her to proceed with this payment. 
I do appreciate how upsetting this situation has been for Miss P (and Mr P). She was 
undoubtedly tricked by a malicious scammer  and they have lost money as a result of this. 
But overall, in line with the CRM code and the banks other obligations, Im not persuaded 
its fair to direct Halifax to refund this payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman