DRN-3051229
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as Scottish 
Provident has unfairly declined his critical illness and total and permanently disability (TPD) 
claims. 
Mr M is being represented by his wife  Mrs P. But for ease Ill refer to Mr M throughout my 
decision. 
What happened
Sadly, after an operation in January 2017 for carpal tunnel release surgery, Mr M was 
diagnosed with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) in his right hand and wrist (which is 
his dominant hand) and severe allodynia affecting the whole of his right quadrant. 
In January 2020 Mr M submitted a critical illness and a TPD claim under his policy. Royal 
London didnt accept the claim. It said CRPS wasnt listed as a critical illness in the policy 
and it wasnt satisfied Mr M met the following definitions of TPD nor the loss of 
independence definition; 
   i)  Work tasks 
        Becoming permanently disabled:
before age 65; 
through illness (other than mental illness of any kind) or injury;
to the extent of becoming unable to do any 2 of the 6 work tasks listed below without 
the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids and 
appliances; 
the disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement.
Walking  the ability to walk 200 meters on a level surface with a stick or other aid 
without stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting  the ability to pick up 1kg from table height and carry it for five metres.
Using a pen/pencil/keyboard  the ability to use a pen, pencil or keyboard with either 
hand or using any aids.
Hearing  the ability to hear well enough to understand someone speaking a common 
language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid.
Speech  the ability to be understood in a common language in a quiet room.
Vision  the ability to see well enough to read 16 point print using spectacles or other 
aids.
Loss of independent existence
Definition
Becoming permanently disabled according to all the requirements of either of the following 
definitions:
Life tasks
     Becoming permanently disabled:
i) through ageing, illness or injury;
ii) to the extent of being unable to perform any three of the six life tasks without the 
help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids and appliances; 
and
iii) the disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement.
Washing
The ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath and 
shower) such that an adequate level of personal hygiene can be maintained.
Dressing
The ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all necessary garments and any medically 
necessary braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances.
Transferring
The ability to move from a bed to an upright chair, or wheelchair and vice versa, and to get 
on or off a toilet or commode.
Mobility
The ability to move from one room to another on a level surface.
Continence
The ability to manage bowel and bladder functions such that an adequate level of personal 
hygiene can be maintained.
Feeding
The ability to feed oneself once food and drink have been prepared and made available.
Mr M was unhappy with Royal Londons decision, so he made a complaint. He said his 
condition is similar to Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Parkinsons disease so should be covered 
as a critical illness under the policy. He added that there is no cure for his condition, and any 
treatments are only there to help improve his quality of life. He says hes unable to do two or 
more of the above tasks and is always in pain. And that one of his doctors has said his 
condition is long term with chronic pain and disability. 
Royal London considered the complaint but didnt overturn its decision to reject the claim. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said CRPS wasnt listed as 
a critical condition in the policy, and even if Mr Ms condition was similar to the MS and 
Parkinsons disease, which were covered under Mr Ms policy, this didnt mean Royal 
London had unfairly declined his claim. The investigator added that Royal London had fairly 
declined a claim for TPD because Mr M hadnt met the criteria above. Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he took out the policy so 
that he would be covered for serious illnesses in the event he was unable to work to cover 
his mortgage. And that hes unable to complete five of the six TPD tasks above. Mr M said 
on a good day he will still experience severe pain every single hour of the day. He added 
that he had recently been diagnosed with Osteoarthritis which meant he was even less 
capable of performing the TPD tasks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr M, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him. While I dont 
want to add to Mr Ms distress, I cant say Royal London has treated him unfairly. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr M met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Royal 
London assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and 
opinions it was presented with at that time. Having carefully considered all the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that it did. 
Critical illness claim
Mr M says his illness/disability has the same symptoms as MS and Parkinsons disease. But 
its not mentioned in the policy because it isnt common. And because he has a critical 
illness and is unable to work, this service should ask the insurer to accept the claim on the 
grounds Mr M is clearly suffering from a serious medical condition. 
I understand the points Mr M has raised here about the similarities in the conditions. But for 
me to ask Royal London to pay a claim under the critical illness part of his policy, the terms 
state that he must receive a definite diagnosis of either MS or Parkinsons disease. 
And its standard industry practice for insurers to define which critical illnesses they are 
willing to provide cover for and set the premiums for the policy based upon the risks they are 
willing to insure. I understand not every customer will have medical knowledge of every 
condition they are covered for or expect to be diagnosed with when they take out a policy. 
But that doesnt mean Mr M has been treated unfairly because his claim was declined for a 
condition no one foresaw him being diagnosed with.  
So, Im satisfied Royal London fairly declined Mr Ms critical illness claim here. TPD claim
In order to ask Royal London to accept this claim, I need to be satisfied from all the evidence 
that Mr M is totally and permanently disabled (as described by the work tasks in the terms 
and conditions). This definition requires Mr M to be unable to do 2 or more of the six tasks. 
Ive considered the reports from Mr Ms treating specialists. Having done so, I dont doubt 
the long-term severity of Mr Ms condition and that it cant be cured. But Im not satisfied he 
was unable to do 2 or more of the work tasks when he made his claim. 
The specialist who responded to Royal London said walking 200 metres would cause Mr M 
severe pain. But she said he could use his left hand to pick up the 1kg weight and carry it 
five metres. And he could also use his left hand to use a pen/pencil/keyboard. The specialist 
said Mr M was limited in his ability to use a pen/pencil/keyboard but not that he was unable 
to do so. 
Ive seen from the medical evidence that Mr M has difficulty reading, hearing and conversing 
due to struggling to concentrate and follow what others are saying. And I accept there may 
be some days where he has trouble speaking to others or reading. But in order for me to ask 
Royal London to accept the claim, I would need to see persuasive evidence Mr M is unable 
to do these tasks permanently. And Im not satisfied that is currently the case. Mr Ms 
specialist has said his vision is reduced but he can read, albeit for a short period of time, and 
he has trouble finding words but not that he is unable to do these tasks. 
So, Im not satisfied Mr M was unable to do 2 or more of these tasks when Royal London 
assessed his claim. 
Loss of independent existence
Mr M has said he cannot do three or more of the tasks listed above. When assessing his 
claim Royal London said one of Mr Ms specialists said that Mr M required help washing his 
hair, dressing and had difficulty feeding himself. But Royal London said it wasnt satisfied 
Mr M was unable to do these tasks permanently. It said Mr M had been referred to 
rehabilitation programmes run by the CRPS service which had improved his functional ability 
and also the anxiety and stress he suffers as a result of his condition. Royal London said 
Mr M may have further rehabilitation programmes in the near future which will help with 
these daily tasks so it didnt think it could say his current level of disability towards these 
tasks was irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there being any improvement. 
Mr M says his specialists have said that his condition is chronic and is unlikely to significantly 
change. Nor is he likely to return to work or any work-related activities. I agree that Mr M has 
difficulties completing these tasks which is supported by his specialists. But I also need to be 
satisfied about the permanence of his ability to complete these tasks as per the policy 
wording. 
Ive carefully weighed up whats been said by both sides. Having done so, Im satisfied  on 
balance  that because Mr M has the potential to complete further rehabilitation programmes 
then I cant fairly say that when Royal London assessed his claim there was no reasonable 
prospect of improvement in carrying out these daily tasks. 
I note Royal London has said that it would be willing to consider a further claim if the 
rehabilitation programme doesnt lead to any further improvement - which I dont consider 
unreasonable here. 
So, Im afraid I cannot fairly ask Royal London to accept Mr Ms claim based upon the 
medical evidence Ive seen here. I appreciate that my decision leaves Mr M in a difficult position. Hes entitled to make a 
further claim to Royal London during the term of his policy if he has new medical evidence, 
such as his recent Osteoarthritis diagnosis, which Royal London hasnt already considered 
or if his situation changes, as Royal London has outlined in its responses to his claim and 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman