DRN-3777719
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) incorrectly blocked his credit 
card(s), amended his address and sent a card and statement to the wrong address.
What happened
In or around March 2022, Mr L attempted to complete a transaction online using his Co-op 
credit card. Despite repeated attempts, Mr L wasnt able to complete the transaction.
The following day, Mr L contacted Co-op to explain the problems hed experienced. Co-op 
confirmed thered been multiple transactions, the last of which had been declined. They 
suggested he return to them if any refund due couldnt be obtained from the retailer.
A few days later, Mr L called Co-op again as he wasnt able to use his credit card and the 
card number appearing on Co-ops online banking service appeared to be different to the 
one on his card. Co-op said his card had been reported as lost by a third party, so theyd 
blocked it. Mr L was concerned as he still had his card. Co-op assured him nothing untoward 
had happened and arranged to send him a replacement card.
Mr L rang Co-op again around 11 days later as he hadnt received his new card. Co-op said 
his address had been changed when his original card had been reported as lost and his new 
card had been sent to the new address. Co-op agreed to cancel the new card and send a 
further card to the correct address. They also said a statement had been sent to the new 
address, so theyd send a duplicate to his current address.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr L complained to Co-op. They said his complaint 
would be upheld and he would receive a letter confirming that. But the letter he received only 
said that his complaint had been resolved without any detail.
Mr L called Co-op again as the card sent to the wrong address still appeared on Co-ops 
online banking service. Co-op discovered theyd cancelled a different card rather than the 
one issued incorrectly. Co-op agreed to arrange for Mr Ls original complaint to be further 
investigated. They also registered a second complaint about the cancellation of Mr Ls 
replacement card. As a resolution for the second complaint, Co-op blocked and reissued Mr 
Ls card and offered him compensation of £50, which he accepted.
Unhappy with how Co-op had considered his original complaint, Mr L referred matters to this 
service. He wanted them to explain what had happened and why theyd accepted 
notifications from a third party. He wanted Co-op to explain why they hadnt handled his 
complaint(s) properly and to provide an apology for his experience. 
Following exchanges between our investigator and Co-op, they agreed theyd made 
mistakes. They offered to compensate Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused with 
a payment of £350, should he accept. 
Our investigator thought Co-ops offer of £350 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here. But Mr L didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman to consider. Mr L said Co-op:
wrongly accepted third part notification that his card was lost; and
wrongly accepted third party notification of a change of address; and
wrongly issued a replacement card to a third party address; and
closed his complaint without investigation; and
provided inaccurate information to him; and
had fundamental weakness in their procedures.
Mr L thought Co-op should be held accountable and compensation should be in excess of 
£1,000.
Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr 
Ls complaint here. It isnt our role to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. 
Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their policies and procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
As an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service (ADR), our role is to provide mediation in the 
event of a dispute. In doing so, we examine and decide whether a business has been fair 
and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ls experience with them. When considering his complaint, 
Ive also considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their 
handbook  where they apply. 
I dont propose to expand further on what happened to cause the problems Mr L 
experienced here. It appears both parties are now familiar with what ultimately went wrong. 
Co-op have accepted they made mistakes, due to human error, and the resultant errors 
made within their own internal systems. Theyve undertaken to provide the necessary 
feedback to individuals involved to ensure similar problems dont recur. 
So, my decision here is based upon whether I think the outcome proposed by Co-op feels 
fair and reasonable, given all the circumstances. In order to do that, I need to consider the 
impact Co-ops mistakes had upon Mr L. From the information and evidence available, Mr L 
needed to make repeated approaches to Co-op in an attempt to resolve matters and was 
ultimately without access to his credit card(s) for a period of time. However, despite what 
happened, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr L was disadvantaged financially. So, any 
award needs to reflect that.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mr L did experience some inconvenience. But I think the amount 
Co-op have offered here feels fair in all the circumstances. I appreciate that Mr L doesnt 
agree. But as Ive already said, it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to 
penalise Co-op for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact their 
mistakes had upon Mr L. And I think Co-ops offer does that here.
I accept that Mr Ls feels Co-op didnt handle his complaint(s) well. The rules that apply to 
what we can consider are laid down in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook - 
specifically the DISP rules. This service is only able to consider complaints that relate to the 
provision of financial services and products regulated by the FCA. As complaint handling 
isnt a regulated financial products or service, I cant reflect any failings (perceived or real) in 
my decision.
Although I realise Mr L will be disappointed, I wont be asking Co-op to increase their 
compensation offer further for the reasons Ive explained. But I will uphold his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mr L of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman