DRN-3314935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim for 
the cancellation of their holiday.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a travel insurance policy through their bank account, underwritten by 
UKI. 
In January 2020, they booked a holiday which was due to depart in June 2020. They had 
paid an £800 deposit. 
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ps 
destination on 17 March 2020 and this advice remained in place up to the point of their 
intended departure date. 
In April 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs P cancelled their holiday and made 
a claim to UKI for the cost of the deposit. 
UKI declined the claim as it said they had cancelled too early. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said UKI had unfairly declined the claim. She 
thought the claim was covered and asked UKI to pay the claim, plus interest.
UKI disagreed and said the costs were recoverable from the provider of their package trip 
under The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR).
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2022. I thank both sides for responding to my 
provisional decision which Ive set out in full below. 
Having considered everything again, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
The policy provides cancellation cover in the following circumstances:
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, 
your travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home 
areas that you had planned to stay with.
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion or 
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined, 
called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court official has refused to 
postpone it
7. Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened 
your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later
But under what isnt covered, the policy says:
You are not covered forRecoverable costs.
Cancellation cover is provided if a trip is cancelled due to the FCDO advising against all but 
essential travel. So based on this term, Mr and Mrs P say their claim should be covered as 
they cancelled when the FCDO was advising against travel.
But the policy has an exclusion in this section which says it doesnt cover claims for costs 
which are recoverable. Mr and Mrs P say they cancelled their holiday due to FCDO advice 
and travel restrictions in the country they were travelling to.
If Mr and Mrs P had waited until closer to the time of their departure, it seems likely that the 
package provider would have been forced to cancel the trip. This would have entitled Mr and 
Mrs P to a full refund from the package provider under PTR. In that case, UKI would have 
had no liability at all for the claim. So I think Mr and Mrs P have potentially disadvantaged 
UKIs position by cancelling when they did. For that reason, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept their claim. 
Regulation 12 of PTR may also be relevant here and so Mr and Mrs P should attempt to 
pursue the travel provider further. If necessary, they should then escalate this through ABTA. 
Once theyve exhausted these procedures, they may be able to demonstrate that their loss 
is irrecoverable.
UKI has indicated that Mr and Mrs P should attempt to obtain a refund from the travel 
provider under either Regulation 12 or 13 of PTR. It has said they should pursue the travel 
provider by using the internal complaints procedure and the relevant trade association 
(either TTA or ABTA). Until Mr and Mrs P do this, their costs arent irrecoverable. If they are 
unsuccessful, UKI will consider the claim under the policy further, which I think is 
reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I dont think UKI has unreasonably declined the 
claim.
UKI has accepted my decision and hasnt provided any further comments. Mr and Mrs P 
have confirmed they dont agree with my decision and in summary, have made the following 
comments:UKI has never helped with their rights under PTR
Theyve lost time and effort to now be told to pursue the matter with the travel 
provider
They will do so on the proviso that UKI will compensate them if they cannot get a 
refund
They did not claim until after their intended date of travel had passed 
UKI didnt decline the claim on what I have found, which is confusing and odd
UKI has changed the goalposts more than once
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps comments in full. Whilst I appreciate their 
disappointment, I dont see any reason to depart from my provisional findings, which I now 
adopt as my final decision. 
UKI has confirmed it will consider the claim further if Mr and Mrs P are unsuccessful in 
obtaining a refund, as set out above. I think that is reasonable. Mr and Mrs P need to pursue 
the refund as set out in the travel insurance contract to show that their costs are 
irrecoverable.
Although Mr and Mrs P didnt claim until after their intended date of travel had passed, I think 
their date of cancellation is key in this case, for the reasons explained above.
UKI declined the claim as a result of cancellation more than 28 days before the departure 
date. And it then gave referral rights to this Service. I disagreed that UKI could decline the 
claim for the reasons that it did initially. But UKI did explain in its final response letter that it 
will only look to consider costs that arent recoverable elsewhere. So although there has 
been a delay in getting to this point, Mr and Mrs P still need to pursue their travel provider to 
show that their costs arent recoverable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman