DRN-3653150
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sesame Limited  his mortgage broker  didnt act quickly enough to 
get him an affordable mortgage interest rate when his chosen lender withdrew the rate it had 
previously offered him.
What happened
Mr M sought mortgage advice from Sesame about a purchase of a new build property in 
2019. In November 2019 they met to complete a fact find to establish Mr Ms circumstances 
and requirements. Sesame obtained a mortgage offer for Mr M from a lender Ill call lender 
A on 28 November 2019 for a two-year fixed rate at 1.5%.
In December 2019 Mr M exchanged contracts on a property that hadnt been built at that 
time. The sale was to complete after the building work was finished. Mr M wrote to Sesame 
in February 2020 saying hed received communication from the builder estimating 
completion would be 24 July 2020. Mr M wrote again on 19 March 2020 saying the 
completion date had been pushed back to mid-August 2020.
On 27 July 2020 the builder wrote to Mr M saying completion would be 30 October 2020.
Sesame wrote to lender A on 13 August 2020 asking about extending Mr Ms mortgage offer 
beyond September 2020 as his completion date had been put back. Lender A responded on 
14 August 2020 saying it required Sesame to create a new illustration based on a product 
from its current range. It would then carry out a credit search before issuing a new offer. It 
said the only potential issue may be that the existing valuation would expire in December, 
having been extended in May 2020. Sesame wrote to lender A on 26 August 2020, 
concerned that it could not find a two-year fixed rate for Mr Ms loan to value. The lender 
confirmed that it had withdrawn that rate but three, five and ten-year rate products were 
available.
On 11 September 2020 the builder wrote to both Mr M and Sesame saying that it would now 
allow help to buy. But that would need to be in place by 16 October. Mr M wrote to the 
builder the same day saying it was unlikely that he would be able to proceed on a help to 
buy basis as, according to his lender, the timescales wont work. 
On 12 October 2020, the builder wrote to Sesame saying completion of the property would 
be on 6 November 2020.
When Mr Ms purchase did complete, it was with a mortgage from lender A on a rate of 
2.76%, fixed for approximately three years, costing £649.38 per month. That offer was 
issued by lender A on 15 September 2020.
Mr M says he was trapped with a mortgage that was too expensive because Sesame failed 
to respond quickly to the withdrawal of lender As mortgage rate. He says Sesame 
suggested other alternatives which may have been suitable if they had acted quicker and 
spoken to lender A sooner.
Sesame says lender A removed the original product and so they could not extend Mr Ms 
offer any further. That meant that a new product had to be sourced. Although a cheaper rate 
was available from another lender (Ill call that lender B), lender B was quoting a long delay 
in the time taken to process new mortgage applications. A new product with Lender A was 
chosen because it would not require a new valuation, or many new documents, nor was 
there any change to loan to value.
Mr M complained to Sesame on 3 November 2020, saying he didnt think he was on the best 
product available and thinks it should have reacted differently and more quickly.
In its final response letter dated 24 November 2020, Sesame said when lender A withdrew 
the rate Sesame had previously recommended, Sesame searched the whole of the market 
to source the best rates available. Lender A had a 2.76% fixed rate available and lender B 
had a 2.46% rate available but was quoting notable delays in being able to process new 
mortgage applications. And it considered that lender As valuation was still valid and a 
change of lender would have needed a new valuation which could have further delayed the 
mortgage application.
Sesame also says it did consider the use of a help to buy mortgage with lender A, but given 
the complexities and additional underwriting requirements, it could not be guaranteed Mr M 
would have a mortgage in place in time for his purchase completion.
Dissatisfied with Sesames response, Mr M asked us to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator said he didnt think Sesame had treated Mr M fairly after lender A withdrew its 
rate as it hadnt been able to provide any evidence that it researched the market for a new 
product. He also thought the reasons Sesame gave for staying with lender A werent 
substantial given that lender A withdrew its product in August and the build didnt complete 
until November 2020. But, he said, he could not be sure Mr M would have qualified for a 
mortgage with another lender. So rather than pay him the difference between the rate Mr M 
received and one he may have obtained  which was what Mr M wanted  our investigator 
said Sesame should pay him £300 for the distress caused. 
Neither party agreed. Mr M said the award isnt a fair representation of the damages caused 
to him. And Sesames lack of ability to provide proof of research constitutes negligence 
which led to him being stuck with a mortgage that was unaffordable.
Sesame said it remained of the opinion that it wasnt at fault. It said changing lenders after 
exchange of contracts could have had serious repercussions for Mr M. And it thought 
remaining with lender A to avoid delay was a prudent decision. 
Both parties asked for Mr Ms complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether Sesames recommendation 
 the mortgage it obtained for Mr M  was suitable given all the circumstances.Ive seen that Sesame conducted a fact find with Mr M in November 2019. The fact 
find established that Mr M only wanted to spend £525 per month on mortgage 
payments. Sesames original recommendation was for a mortgage with a monthly 
cost similar to that. But he ended up with a mortgage costing him approximately £650 
per month. So, I understand why Mr M feels that Sesame hasnt provided what he 
asked for. That said, the fact find shows that he had no other monthly commitments. 
So, it didnt establish that £525 was the maximum Mr M could afford, only how much 
he wanted to pay for the repayment of his mortgage each month.
After lender A provided Mr M with a mortgage offer, lots of things changed. The most 
significant cause of those changes was the covid pandemic which impacted both the 
building and banking/lending industries. It caused delays to the building of Mr Ms 
new home and the response and turnaround times of lenders. Specifically, the 
completion time was delayed  a number of times  meaning that Mr As mortgage 
offer from lender A expired, having been extended previously. That meant Mr M 
could no longer have the mortgage rate he wanted and had to apply for another one. 
I think that was unavoidable and not caused in any way by Sesame.
Mr M says Sesame should have acted more quickly at that time to secure him a 
better rate and explored help to buy. Sesame says that other lenders  in particular 
lender B  told it that mortgage applications were taking much longer than usual. But 
Sesame did identify lender B as a lender offering a slightly lower rate than the one it 
proceeded with from lender A.
Its my understanding that many lenders were experiencing backlogs at that time and 
that mortgage applications could take approximately three months to process. So, I 
think what Sesame has said in that regard is likely to be correct. I understand Mr Ms 
concern that Sesame hasnt provided evidence that it researched the mortgage 
market for a cheaper rate at that time. But I dont think finding the cheapest rate was 
the most important factor in this case. In the time between his first application and 
needing to make a second one the lending market had changed  mortgage interest 
rates increased generally. So, I think Mr M would always have paid significantly more 
than he originally wanted to, whichever lender he chose.
I think the most important factor  and the one Sesame appears to have been 
focussed on  was ensuring Mr M had a mortgage in place when he had to complete 
on his purchase, particularly as hed already exchanged contracts and was therefore 
committed to the purchase. I understand that Mr M feels Sesame had a long time  
from the expiry of the mortgage offer to the date of completion  to secure another 
mortgage. But, from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the eventual completion 
date was known when the offer expired  it changed again after that time. So, I dont 
think Sesame had a clear idea of the time it had to establish another mortgage offer 
and it would have thought it had less time than it eventually did.
Ive also thought about whether Sesame should have considered the help to buy 
scheme at the time the mortgage offer expired. But, as outlined in the above section, 
the window of opportunity for that appears to have been small. Im not persuaded, 
given the delays already mentioned that starting a brand new help to buy application 
was a realistic goal. So, I think its reasonable that Sesame didnt explore that further. 
Summary
Sesame knew that mortgage application delays were likely  both in terms of 
valuation and underwriting backlogs. And it knew Mr M needed a mortgage in place by completion  a date that was initially unknown to it and outside of its control. So, I 
think its reasonable that it focussed its efforts on ensuring Mr M was able to fulfil his 
contractual obligation to complete on the purchase when called upon to do so. 
I also think ensuring Mr M had a mortgage by the time he needed it  particularly as 
hed already exchanged contracts  was a substantial factor in terms of the overall 
suitability of the recommendation. While I accept that affordability is another 
important factor, the available mortgage rates had increased so the potential savings 
in obtaining a slightly lower rate were relatively small. And I havent seen that the 
mortgage Mr M agreed to proceed with was actually unaffordable.
Having considered all the circumstances, I dont think Sesames recommendation to 
Mr M was unsuitable and I think it acted reasonably given what it knew about the 
time it had available. So, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. Sesame accepted my decision, 
but Mr M did not. Mr M made numerous comments about my decision but added no new 
information or evidence. Ive considered Mr Ms comments carefully, but theyve not led me 
to change my decision. That said, I will address some of his points here.
Mr M says the agreed monthly budget shown in the fact find document of November 2019 
wasnt based on a whim, it was a need and was a key requirement and motivation for the 
mortgage. As Ive said above, mortgage rates increased after Mr Ms initial offer expired, so 
if a more expensive rate wasnt affordable, I would expect to have seen him pull out of the 
purchase of the property. I think its also relevant that the lender still deemed the mortgage 
affordable for Mr M on the higher interest rate  as it was prepared to lend to him on that 
basis.
I know Mr M says help to buy was a viable alternative and I acknowledge that may have 
worked out less expensive on a monthly basis. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I 
think its reasonable that from Sesames point of view  given what it knew at any given time 
 there was unlikely to have been enough time to complete a new mortgage application, be 
that help to buy or a different rate with another lender before Mr M needed to complete on 
the purchase.
With regard to the monthly cost of the mortgage and Sesame ensuring he had a mortgage in 
place at completion, Mr M says  it was for him to decide what was most important. I accept 
that. But Mr M was sent confirmation of the new monthly mortgage payment in August 2020 
and then in the offer letter dated 15 September 2020. I know Mr M wasnt happy about the 
increase in cost then, but he did continue with the purchase. So, the evidence from the time 
 Mr Ms actions  suggests the completion of the purchase was more important to Mr M 
than the monthly cost  to the extent that he agreed to continue with the monthly mortgage 
payment he had knowledge of at that time.
I understand that Mr M is frustrated by the lack of evidence to show that Sesame researched 
the market for other lenders who could offer a lower interest rate. But Sesame has 
acknowledged that lender B offered a lower rate at that time than lender A. It says it didnt 
make an application because it knew lender B was experiencing high processing times for 
applications. 
I havent seen evidence of lender Bs precise processing times from 2020, but I am mindful 
that Mr Ms application was unlikely to have been the only one Sesame was working on at 
the time. I think its reasonable to assume that, in its role as mortgage broker, Sesame was 
dealing with various lenders at the time. And, for its ordinary customers, its likely those 
lenders would be offering the more competitive rates as dealing with those lenders would be how it would remain competitive as a broker. So, I think it follows that it would have a good 
knowledge of current rates and the individual lenders capabilities of processing a mortgage 
application within a specific timescale.
I understand that Mr M wants proof that Sesame took one action or another. And in the 
absence of any such proof thinks I should find in his favour. But it isnt often cases are 
decided by absolute proof of one thing or another. Instead, we often base our findings on 
what we consider to be more likely given the evidence available. In making those findings, 
our own knowledge and experience of the subject matter will influence our thinking. So, 
when I say I think something is likely or more likely than something else, thats because I 
cant know what happened from the evidence available. I can often only use my knowledge 
and experience to consider the evidence impartially and arrive at a finding I think is most 
likely to be correct.  
As Mr M hasnt provided any new evidence or information that has persuaded me to change 
my findings, my final decision is the same as that outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Sesame Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman