DRN-3459597
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his current account and recorded a 
default on his credit file. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr As Lloyds bank account balance went over the agreed overdraft limit. 
In February 2021 Mr A says he received notification his overdraft balance was repaid and 
tried to check his account. Mr A says his account was showing as inactive so he tried to 
contact Lloyds without success. 
In March 2021 Mr A received notice from a firm of debt collectors who said he owed over 
£500 in respect of his Lloyds bank account. Mr A has told us he was very concerned his 
personal information had been shared with a third party. 
Mr A was referred back to Lloyds and has told us he offered to repay the outstanding 
balance on the basis his credit file wasnt impacted. Lloyds didnt agree. 
Lloyds didnt uphold a complaint Mr A raised and said it had closed his account after hed 
exceeded his overdraft limit in October 2020. Lloyds said it had sent Mr A text messages 
and letters asking him to make contact and make a payment. Lloyds says it closed the 
account as no contact or payments were received. Lloyds also said the account balance had 
been sold to a third party and that the default would remain on his credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint but thought Lloyds had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr A asked to appeal and said Lloyds had failed to tell him before it closed the account 
and recorded a default on his credit file. Mr A also said the information provided by Lloyds 
indicated his overdraft balance had been repaid and that it had charged interest to his 
account. Mr A also sent in information to show he was set to paperless correspondence with 
Lloyds. As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says interest charges took his account balance above the agreed overdraft limit. But 
the statements Ive seen show that prior to 5 October 2020 Mr As account was £475.01 
overdrawn. Transactions (including non sterling transaction fees) totalling £44.38 plus daily 
overdraft interest of £1.10 took the balance to £520.49. Mr A has told us it was interest and 
charges that took the balance over the agreed overdraft limit. But I havent found that to be 
the case. 
Mr A says Lloyds failed to let him know about its decision to close his account and that hes 
requested paperless correspondence. Lloyds says its obliged to send certain letters in the 
post, including its formal demands and collection letters. 
Ive looked at the letters and correspondence Lloyds says it sent Mr A about the overdrawn 
position of his account. I can see that, in addition to the letters, Lloyds sent Mr A text 
messages asking him to make contact. Mr A has told us no letters or contact from Lloyds 
were received. But Lloyds says it posted important collections letters to Mr A in the run up to 
its decision to close his account. 
I know Mr As account was set as paperless. But Lloyds has specifically confirmed that it 
sends the collections letters to customers in the post. Lloyds says thats a step its required to 
take by the rules and to try and ensure customers receive important information about their 
accounts. Letters like Lloyds formal demand and default notice were posted. 
Mr A checked with other members of his household and explains no letters were received. 
But I have to take the evidence Lloyds has sent into account. Lloyds collections letters going 
back to November 2020 were sent to the same address we have on file for Mr A. Lloyds has 
also sent evidence from its systems that shows the letters were dispatched to Mr A. On 
balance, Im satisfied the information available shows Lloyds did contact Mr A about the 
overdrawn position of his account and its intention to close it, as claimed. 
I understand Mr A feels Lloyds shouldve done more to contact him. But I think its 
reasonable to note the account balance exceeded Mr As overdraft limit from 5 October 2020 
until it was closed in February 2021. No payments were received into Mr As account for a 
four month period before it was closed. Looking at the account history, thats unusual. Mr A 
regularly used his overdraft and account prior to 5 October 2020 and whilst there were some 
occasions where the balance exceeded the limit it was brought back down. Ultimately, the 
account terms and conditions say Lloyds can close an account in the circumstances of 
Mr As case. I havent been persuaded that Lloyds acted unfairly by closing Mr As account 
and reporting a default. 
Mr A says Lloyds misled him into thinking his account had been paid off due to a message 
he received. But the statements show Lloyds applied a credit of £529.74 to Mr As account 
on 8 February 2021, the same day it was closed. The transfer represents an account 
correction that allowed Lloyds to close it. And I think its fair to say Mr A wouldve been 
aware of making a payment of that amount to repay his account balance. I havent been 
persuaded that Lloyds misled Mr A. 
As Mr As account balance exceeded the overdraft limit for around four months, Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds acted unfairly by taking the decision to close it. For the reasons Ive 
given above, Im satisfied Lloyds did contact Mr A as claimed and gave reasonable notice of 
its intentions. As I havent been persuaded that Lloyds acted unfairly, Im not telling it to 
remove the default or take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman