DRN-3438070
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O have complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health 
have declined to meet a claim made under Mrs Os group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O has claimed for treatment under the policy. The treatment was recommended by Mr 
Os oncologist. AXA relied on two policy exclusions to decline his claim. Our investigator 
considered the matter but didnt find that AXA had treated Mr O unfairly. Mrs O and Mr O 
appealed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a bitter 
disappointment to Mrs O and Mr O and I am very sorry not to bring them more welcome 
news. I want to emphasise this decision is not in any way saying that the treatment Mr Os 
seeks is not appropriate or even desirable. My decision is only as to whether AXA have 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim. Ill explain why I dont find they 
have.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent.
The key issues here are whether the recommended treatment is excluded and whether it is 
conventional treatment as defined by the policy. I will deal with these issues in turn.
Mr Os policy covers him for eligible treatment. As far as is relevant to this complaint this 
means that the treatment: 
falls within the benefits of this plan and is not excluded from cover by any term in this 
handbook; and
is conventional treatment and
has been proven to be effective and safe 
Looking first at the policy exclusion for external devices the policy doesnt cover:
We do not cover  replacement  of teeth  or hair, including  wigs or hair transplants.
We do not cover  the costs  of the purchase,  hire or fitting  of external  appliances,  such  as 
crutches,  joint supports  and braces,  mechanical  walking  aids,  contact  lenses  or any 
external  device.
The treatment that Mr O has claimed for is provided via an external device - described in the 
manufacturers website as a non-invasive, portable device. The device is not implanted or 
attached to the body and removed when not being used for treatment. I dont find that this is 
in the same class as any of the devices listed under this policy exclusion. A walking aid 
provides assistance in walking, contact lenses enhance vision. The proposed treatment here 
is to address the tumour causing the disease to multiply. So although I accept that this 
device doesnt fit easily with the examples given in the policy, I would have some difficulty in 
concluding that its not an external device.
I note that under the cancer section of the policy there is greater cover, extending to wigs. Mr 
Os advocate has suggested that the proposed device should be compared to a wig as a wig 
it is an external device which is covered. I do understand the point, but I am unable to draw a 
comparison with the treatment Mr O has requested and a wig, temporary head covering or 
external prostheses needed because of cancer whilst you are having treatment to kill cancer 
cells. I would point out too that even if I did find any comparison was possible, the policy the 
benefit is limited to £400 a year for wigs and £5000 a year for prostheses.
In the circumstances I dont find that AXA have treated Mr O unfairly, unreasonably or 
contrary to the policy terms in saying that the claim he has made is for an external device 
which falls outside the terms of his policy.  
Secondly, AXA have also said that the treatment recommended for Mr O is not conventional.
The policy defines conventional treatment as:
 is established  as best medical  practice  and is practiced  widely  within  the UK; and 
 is clinically  appropriate  in terms  of necessity,  type,  frequency,  extent,  duration  and the 
facility  or location  where  the treatment  is provided;  and has either
  been  approved  by NICE  (The  National  Institute  for Health  and Care  Excellence)  as a 
treatment  which  may be used  in routine  practice;  or 
 been  proven  to be effective  and safe for the treatment  of your medical  condition  
through  high quality  clinical  trial evidence
From the evidence before me I am unable to conclude, at this moment in time,  that the 
requested  treatment  is established  as best medical  practice  and is practiced  widely  
within  the UK. The treatment hasnt been approved by NICE and is not funded by the NHS.
I havent disregarded the wealth of literature submitted or the oncologists report and his 
request for AXA to support Mr Os access to the treatment. He says that the treatment is a 
relatively novel anti-cancer therapy that has been shown to be effective for the type of 
cancer Mr O has. There is some evidence available too that the treatment has been proven 
to be effective and safe in clinical trials. But Im not persuaded that the treatment is widely 
used within the UK at present. As I dont find that the policy definition has been met I dont 
find it was unreasonable of AXA to conclude that the claim wasnt for conventional treatment 
covered by the policy. 
AXA recognises that its members may wish to have access to emerging treatments as they 
become available and will cover unproven treatment in some circumstances. But as this 
cover is more restrictive that for conventional treatment, this particular policy provision is not 
of assistance to Mr O at present. I should point out though that even if the landscape as to what is deemed conventional treatment were to change (and I recognise that there are 
constant developments and advances here) his claim would still face the external device 
hurdle Ive discussed above.
It's submitted on behalf of Mr O that other insurers do fund this treatment and therefore AXA 
should too. I completely understand how keen Mrs O and Mr O are for Mr O to have this 
treatment, but it doesnt follow that what might be covered by one insurer under a specific 
policy will be or should be covered by another under a different policy. In reaching my 
decision Ive considered the terms of Mr Os policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman