DRN-3297752
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she lost, which she feels 
was the result of a scam.
What happened
In early 2017 Mrs T was looking to make an investment and, after researching online, was 
contacted by a financial advisor. The financial advisor recommended she invest in a bond 
being offered by A, a limited company. Mrs T says she was told shed receive 7.6% interest 
over two years and that the bond was backed by a bank guarantee. She agreed to the 
recommendation and so made three payments out of her Barclays current account on 
3 March 2017, totalling £25,000, to invest in the bond.
As she didnt receive the interest payment she was expecting after the second year, Mrs T 
became suspicious that she had fallen victim to a scam. And after finding out that A had 
been wound up and a liquidator appointed in June 2018, and that the financial advisor had 
closed down, she contacted Barclays and asked it to refund the payments shed made.
Barclays investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mrs T and A, and not a 
scam. So it said it was unable to refund the payments or pursue the matter further. Mrs T 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think Barclays should have to 
refund the money Mrs T lost. They thought the payments wouldnt have looked particularly 
unusual, so Barclays had acted reasonably in processing them. And they said it looked as 
though A was a legitimate company, and so this likely wasnt a scam. Mrs T disagreed with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs T authorised the payments. She accepts she made them herself. 
So while I recognise that she now feels shes been the victim of a scam and didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, the starting position in law is that Barclays was obliged to 
follow her instructions and process the payments. So Mrs T isnt automatically entitled to a 
refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Barclays 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
But even if Barclays had identified that Mrs T was at risk of fraud as a result of the payments 
and stepped in to ask further questions before processing them, I dont think this would have 
made any difference to what happened.
Mrs T says she thinks the investment was a scam as she hasnt received the interest she 
was told she would and both A and the financial advisor have now shut down. But this 
doesnt mean that the investment was a scam, as it doesnt show that either A or the 
financial advisor were setting out to act fraudulently or intentionally deceive Mrs T from the 
beginning.
Both A and the financial advisor were registered at Companies House, which I wouldnt 
expect to see from completely fraudulent businesses. From what Ive seen, A appears to 
have made efforts to operate as a legitimate business, before ultimately being unsuccessful 
and being wound up. And A appears to have made some interest payments to at least some 
of the bond holders. So I dont think its clear that the investment was a scam.
And, in any event, if Barclays had stepped in and asked further questions before processing 
the payments, it would only have known what Mrs T would have told it at the time. And at the 
time, Mrs T thought the investment was legitimate, had been speaking with a financial 
advisor who appeared to be genuine and she had met in person, and hadnt been promised 
particularly unrealistic returns or been made unbelievable promises. So I dont think 
Barclays further questions wouldve uncovered any concerns and Barclays wouldnt 
reasonably have been expected to recognise a scam or to refuse to process the payments.
I sympathise with the position Mrs T has found herself in and Im in no way suggesting she 
herself did anything wrong. But sometime investments can lose money or not provide the 
returns that were promised, and this doesnt necessarily mean there was a scam taking 
place.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think theres anything Barclays could reasonably 
have been expected to do that would have prevented her loss. And so I dont think it would 
be fair to require Barclays to refund the payments she made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman