DRN-2905799
The complaint
Mr J complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), failed to carry out his instructions to 
purchase additional shares.
Hes also unhappy that YBS sent him a letter asking for additional payment when he didnt 
owe any money and didnt have a chance to buy additional shares. 
What happened
Mr J has been participating in a five-year sharesave option with his employer. During this 
period the scheme had to be brought to an end early, and he was given an opportunity to 
buy shares at the offer price. 
Mr J was given the option to pay an additional lump sum and purchase the shares at the 
option price of £11.04 per share. I note that Mr J filled out the relevant forms and paid the 
money to purchase the shares. 
But after the share price went down YBS wrote to Mr J asking if he still wanted to purchase 
the shares at a higher price than was available on the market. Mr J didnt receive the letter 
(sent to his home) because he was in lockdown away from his home, so didnt respond. 
Without confirmation from Mr J, YBS didnt buy the shares.
Mr Js now unhappy that YBS didnt buy shares in line with his initial instructions. 
YBS partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it said that it wrote to Mr J after it had 
received instructions to purchase additional shares  and following a change in share price 
but didnt hear back from him in time. So, in the circumstances it wasnt responsible for not 
purchasing additional shares  in line with his initial instructions  because it didnt have 
instructions to do so. 
That notwithstanding, YBS accepts that the letter referred to by Mr J was sent in error. It was 
a computer-generated letter that shouldnt have been sent giving him the impression that he 
still owed money and had he had an opportunity to buy shares. It offered Mr J £35 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld for 
much the same reasons as YBS. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, he said:
It wasnt reasonable in the circumstances that YBS only sent one letter, given that it 
had his telephone number and email. 
His postal address hadnt changed so he didnt need to contact YBS to notify it of any 
change of address.  
He didnt choose to have his money returned, this was already done for him by YBS. 
YBS enforced its position on him. 
The investigators view isnt reasonable in the circumstances. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J says Im unable to safely 
say that YBS has behaved unreasonably by not purchasing shares in line with his initial 
instructions, after the share price changed. 
Theres no dispute that Mr J sent his initial instructions asking YBS to buy some shares and 
did so in good time. I note Mr J says that in November 2019 he sent a cheque for the final 
payment amount, along with his completed documents to make the purchase in April 2020.  
But YBS subsequently wrote to Mr J, as I think it was obliged to do, asking if he still wanted 
to purchase shares, following a change in share price. 
I note in a letter dated 7 April 2020, it said that the price of shares had gone down, and that if 
he still wanted to purchase the shares, hed be doing so at a higher price than they were on 
the market. It also gave Mr J a deadline of 21 April 2020 by which to reply. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that YBS set out the position clearly in writing to Mr J, and 
gave him a reasonable opportunity to respond. On balance, I dont think it couldve 
reasonably done any more. In the circumstances, I cant safely that it has done anything 
wrong by not contacting him by phone or email. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr J thought that his payment and instructions to YBS were the end of 
the matter, it evidently wasnt. And in the circumstances, I dont think that it wouldve been 
reasonable for YBS to buy shares on the basis of his original instructions, when the share 
price had changed, and Mr J would end up paying more by purchasing the shares through 
YBS. 
In the circumstances Ive seen nothing to say that YBS would continue to purchase the 
shares even if the share price went down. Im aware that the terms and conditions state:
If the share price is lower than the discounted option price, you can simply choose to have 
all your savings returned.
I appreciate Mr J feels that his choice in the matter was taken away, but Im satisfied that 
YBS acted in good faith and that its actions were reasonable. But because Mr J didnt 
respond to the April 2020 letter from YBS, he effectively lost his ability to choose. I 
appreciate he says he didnt get the letter, but YBS had no way of knowing that. In the 
circumstances, I dont agree that YBS simply imposed/enforced its decision on Mr J, on 
balance Im satisfied that it followed whats likely to be its default position when no response 
is received. 
I appreciate Mr J thinks that YBS not purchasing the shares in line with his initial instructions 
is wholly unacceptable, but I dont think YBS acted unreasonably by seeking further 
instructions in the circumstances. In other words, if it hadnt sought further instructions, YBS wouldve ended up buying shares at a price that wasnt agreed by Mr J, and at a higher 
share price than was available on the market at the time.  
I note Mr J says that at the beginning of lockdown, he was in lockdown away from his home, 
so didnt receive the letter until much later. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can blame 
YBS for him not receiving the letter sooner. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that YBS was made aware that he was in lockdown away from 
his home, and that he wouldnt be receiving his post  and/or that he should to be contacted 
by an alternative method. This isnt the same as Mr J notifying YBS of a change of address 
because Im aware he didnt change his address. But YBS was nevertheless unaware that 
he wouldnt receive post sent to his home address because he was in lockdown elsewhere. 
Whilst Im not blaming Mr J, I note he was obliged to keep his contact details up to date, so I 
dont think the business is to blame for Mr J not getting the letter before the deadline passed, 
even though it was delivered to his home address. 
In the circumstances, I think YBS was right to uphold the complaint regarding the letter that it 
mistakenly sent to Mr J  I note it was a computer-generated letter and not one that was sent 
deliberately. In the circumstances I think the redress offered by YBS is broadly fair and 
reasonable, as the matter was rectified relatively shortly thereafter. 
I appreciate that Mr J will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman