DRN-3519620
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans was 
irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In November 2020 Everyday Lending provided Miss B with a loan of £2,000 repayable over 
24 months with a monthly repayment of £183.91. She said the purpose of the loan was to 
consolidate some payday loans and buy a car. The loan was repaid in May 2021.
In August 2021 Everyday Lending provided Miss B with a second loan of £1,000 which was 
repaid later that same month.
Miss B complained that the loans were unaffordable. Everyday Lending looked into her 
complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the first loan was 
affordable. It agreed that the second loan might have been provided inappropriately. So in 
respect of the second loan it agreed to refund what Miss B had paid over the amount 
borrowed plus interest and remove details of that loan from her credit file.
Miss B referred her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. These 
two questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss B would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business 
had to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to 
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact that the loan repayments would 
have on Miss B. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of 
the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Miss B. This included asking for 
details of her income and expenditure, carrying out a credit search, requesting a payslip and 
two months bank statements. It calculated Miss Bs regular living expenses using statistical 
data and assessed her monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information 
gathered by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to 
it at the time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out were reasonable and
proportionate, in the circumstances.
With regard to the first loan Everyday Lending established that Miss Bs average monthly 
income was £1,510.37. She said she was living with her parents and didnt have to pay 
anything towards her board. It calculated her other living expenses were £489. She was 
paying £526.88 on her existing credit commitments but that would reduce after shed paid 
off some of her most expensive borrowing with the new loan. Everyday Lending estimated 
that Miss B would have a monthly disposable income of £670.15 after taking into account 
her new loan repayment and some debt consolidation.
Broadly speaking I think Everyday Lendings calculations were correct except that Miss B 
had a revolving line of credit for which the minimum payment was £20 as opposed to £3 
allowed by Everyday Lending. Her credit commitments were just under 25% of her 
income.In the light of this I think it was reasonable for Everyday Lending to take the view that she 
would be able to keep up the repayments on the first loan without undue difficulty over the 
term of the loan assuming there was no significant change in her circumstances. I also 
think Everyday Lending treated Miss B fairly in its offer with regard to the second loan to 
refund what Miss B had paid over the amount borrowed plus interest and remove details 
of that loan from her credit file.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman