DRN-2765372
The complaint
Mr I, Mrs S, Miss Y and Miss Y complain about Prestige First Ltd and their failure to forward 
them personal injury payments due to them following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr I, Mrs S, Miss Y and Miss Y were involved in a car accident. On 11 April 
2019, Mr I and Mrs S instructed Prestige to handle their claim for repairs to their car, as well 
as claims for personal injuries to themselves and their daughters, Miss Y and Miss Y. As 
Miss Y and Miss Y are under the age of 18, and Mr I and Mrs S have authority to pursue this 
complaint on their behalf, Ill refer to only Mr I and Mrs S by name throughout the decision.
Following their instruction, Prestige referred the personal injury claims for Mr I, Mrs S and 
their daughters to a solicitor, who Ill refer to as J. These claims were successful, and J paid 
the compensation due to Mr I and Mrs S directly, in December 2019 and January 2020 
respectively. But the two payments of £1,845.00 each due to Mr I and Mrs S daughters were 
sent to Prestige by BACS transfer in January 2020.
Mr I and Mrs S then chased Prestige for these payments to be forwarded to them, as theyd 
signed parental indemnity forms with J. But Prestige didnt response to Mr I and Mrs S 
contact. Mr I says he attended Prestiges office in person to request the funds and he was 
turned away. Mr I and Mrs S were unhappy with this, so they raised a complaint.
They were unhappy Prestige hadnt forwarded their daughters personal injury payments onto 
them, and the length of time it had now been without the money that was legally theirs. So, 
they wanted Prestige to forward the money as soon as possible, and compensate them for 
the upset theyd been caused trying to chase Prestige for payment. Prestige didnt respond 
to Mr I and Mrs S complaint within the eight-week time period they are allowed. So, Mr I and 
Mrs S referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. Hed spoken to J directly, who 
confirmed the daughters personal injury payments had been paid to Prestige directly. And 
Prestige hadnt provided any evidence to show theyd attempted to pay this to Mr I and Mrs 
S. So, he was satisfied Prestige had failed to pay the daughters personal injury payments to 
Mr I and Mrs S. Because of this, he thought Prestige should pay Mr I and Mrs S the 
£3,690.00 plus 8% statutory interest from the date Prestige received the funds to the date its 
paid to Mr I and Mrs S. And he thought Prestige should pay Mr I and Mrs S an additional 
£350 to recognise the upset theyd been caused.
Mr I and Mrs S and their daughters accepted this outcome. But Prestige didnt respond. As 
Prestige didnt respond, we were unable to confirm an agreement had been reached. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr I, Mrs S and their 
daughters. Ive no doubt when they instructed Prestige to manage their claim, they believed 
Prestige would treat them fairly and ensure any money owed to them would be paid. 
Prestige instructed J to manage the personal injury part of their claim, and J have confirmed 
they acted as agents of Prestige. Js efforts were successful, and Mr I and Mrs S daughters 
were awarded personal injury payments to recognise the injuries they suffered in the road 
traffic accident, which Ive no doubt wouldve been traumatic and upsetting for them. The 
money paid to Prestige by J is owed to Mr I and Mrs Ss daughters, and Id have expected 
them to pay this to Mr I and Mrs S, acting as their daughters representatives, as soon as 
reasonably possible. When this wasnt done, Ive no doubt this wouldve been concerning 
and upsetting for the family. 
Its not in dispute that the money J paid to Prestige was intended for Mr I and Mrs S 
daughters. And J have confirmed this was transferred by BACS payment to Prestige in 
January 2020. Mr I and Mrs S have said they havent received this. And Prestige have 
provided no evidence to show this money was paid. So, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume Prestige havent paid this. And I think this shows Prestige to have acted both 
unfairly and unreasonably.
Putting things right
As I think Prestige have acted unfairly by not forwarding the personal injury payment for Mr I 
and Mrs S daughters when it was received, Ive thought about what I think they should do to 
put things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr I, Mrs S and their 
daughters back in the position they wouldve been, had Prestige acted as Id have expected 
them to.
And in this situation, I wouldve expected Prestige to pay Mr I and Mrs S the £3,690.00 owed 
to their daughters. So, this is what I think Prestige should do. And I think Prestige should pay 
Mr I and Mrs S 8% statutory interest on this amount, from the date they received the funds 
from J to the date they make the payment to Mr I and Mrs S.
Also, had Prestige made the payment as soon as reasonably possible after they received it, 
Mr I and Mrs S wouldnt have need to chase Prestige for the payment. Ive seen evidence to 
show Mr I and Mrs Ss attempts to chase Prestige. And Mr I has confirmed he attended 
Prestiges office to ask for payment, where was turned away. I think this wouldve caused a 
great deal of distress for Mr I, Mrs S and their daughters. And I think this should be 
recognised.
Considering the above, and the length of time its been since Prestige received the funds 
from J so the length of time Mr I, Mrs S and their daughters have been without money owed 
to them, I think Prestige should pay them an additional £350 to recognise the upset this has 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr I, Mrs S, Miss Y and Miss Ys complaint about 
Prestige First Ltd and I direct them to take the following action:Pay the £3,690.00 due for Miss Y and Miss Ys personal injury claims plus 8% 
statutory interest from the date they received the funds from J to the date of 
payment; and
Pay an additional £350 to recognise the length of time Miss Y and Miss Y have been 
without this money and the upset its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I, Mrs S, Miss Y 
and Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman