DRN-2673010
The complaint
Mr and Ms F say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  has not fairly compensated 
them for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Ms F also mentioned a life insurance policy in their complaint. To be clear this 
decision relates solely to the PPI policy they were sold in 2004.
What happened
Mr and Ms F complained about the sale of a PPI policy, sold to them with a mortgage.
In August 2020 NatWest wrote to Mr and Ms F agreeing to uphold their complaint.
The letters offered Mr and Ms F £563.98 each as compensation for the mis-sold PPI policy.
Our adjudicator thought the compensation was fair. Mr and Ms F disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold the complaint about the sale of the policy. And it has agreed 
to pay compensation for the mis-sale of the policy. So in this decision I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold. In this decision I am deciding if the compensation offered 
and paid to Mr and Ms F is fair.
Where a monthly premium PPI policy like this has been mis-sold Id expect the business to 
put the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position theyd be in if the policy had not been 
sold.
To do this Id expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums paid together with 
compensatory interest for the time the consumer has been out of pocket.
Ive seen records from NatWest and the policy insurer which show Mr and Ms F paid a total 
of £588.32 in PPI premiums between February 2004 and March 2007. And I can see 
NatWest has refunded this amount. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Ms F paid any 
more than £588.32 in PPI premiums for the policy.
NatWest also added interest calculated at 8% simple from the time each premium was paid 
until the time Mr and Ms F got the money back. I think this is a fair rate of interest to 
compensate them for the time they have been out of pocket. The total interest was £674.56.
NatWest has to deduct tax from the compensatory interest, so it deducted £134.92.
So the total compensation NatWest offered and paid was £1,127.96. NatWest paid half the 
compensation to Mr F and half to Ms F, which is what Id expect it to do where the mortgage 
was in joint names.
So I am satisfied NatWest has refunded all the PPI premiums paid by Mr and Ms F. And Im 
satisfied it has paid them compensatory interest on those premiums at a fair rate of interest 
to compensate them for the time theyve not had use of the money.
It follows that I think NatWest has fairly compensated Mr and Ms F for the mis-sale of the 
PPI policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman