DRN-2977732
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) treated him unreasonably.
What happened
Mr H had several savings accounts with Lloyds. He needed to renew one of his savings 
accounts and arranged a call with the Lloyds branch in February 2021. He failed to pass 
security checks, so the call was ended. He visited the branch later that day to complain. The 
manager wasnt in and he spoke to another member of staff. On the following Sunday, he 
met a member of staff while out. On 22 February 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mr H regarding what 
was said. The letter said We are writing to you following the incident of verbal abuse 
atbranch on 19 February 2021. If there is a repeat of this or any similar incident then we 
will have no choice than to give you notice to close your account. This is in line with our 
unacceptable customer behaviours policy. In the meantime, we have made a record of this 
incident and the actions we have taken on your personal file.
Mr H complained. He felt that the advisor on the call in the morning was unnecessarily 
obstructive. He said he wasnt abusive on the call, in the branch or outside the branch. He 
thought Lloyds were being unreasonable. Hes concerned that his record with the bank - and 
other banks - will be harmed.
Lloyds considered their position. They said Mr H didnt swear on the call, but their letter was 
issued due to his conduct after that. They said his behaviour towards a member of staff 
when he visited the branch was unacceptable. And again, when he confronted a member of 
staff on the Sunday morning (she was attending an alarm call-out), he vented his anger 
towards her. They said that what happened didnt stop him visiting the branch for his banking 
needs.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said it was necessary for Lloyds 
to undertake security checks on calls, and the questions he was asked were reasonable. 
Looking at what happened subsequently in the branch, our investigator wasnt there and so 
had to make a judgement based on what he was told by Lloyds and Mr H. He accepted that 
Mr Hs version of events differed from that of Lloyds. But Lloyds have a policy in place to 
protect their staff, which theyd followed. Lloyds had confirmed that what happened will have 
no impact on Mr Hs financial dealings with them, or any other bank.
Mr H asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint isnt what happened on the call between him and the branch  
when he failed security checks - but what then took place. I have reviewed what both Lloyds 
and Mr H have told us. Let me say that in matters such as this  its impossible for me to 
make a judgement on what was or wasnt said  because I wasnt there. Mr H has said to us 
that he wants the right of reply to what Lloyds have stated what was said and to who. But  I 
am not going to do that, because I dont think it will move things forward.
Ive reviewed the branch managers testimony. Lloyds have said that Mr H was frustrated on 
the call and then vented his anger when he later visited the branch. They say he was 
abusive to a member of staff, and again when he happened across a member of staff on the 
following Sunday morning. So  thats why they sent him the letter on 22 February 2021. 
And in their final response, they confirmed the letter was sent to him in respect of the two 
incidents (not just the branch visit as referenced by our investigator). Whether  or not  Mr 
H was abusive, or whether what he said could be considered abusive  the point is that the 
Lloyds staff felt that it was so  and so they implemented their policy in this connection. As 
Ive said, I cant say with confidence whether that was fair, or not, because I wasnt there  
but Lloyds did act within their policy for protecting their staff. So  I cant say they acted 
wrongly or made an error.
Lloyds have said that what happened wont harm Mr Hs banking relationship with them  
but theyve noted it on his file. And as our investigator said  such information wont be 
shared with other banks or finance businesses. 
I appreciate that Mr H feels wronged by what happened. But, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I wont be asked Lloyds to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman