DRN-3640629
The complaint
Mr C complains Clear Score Technology Limited trading as Clear Score didnt carry out 
proper checks when granting a fraudster access to his credit file.
What happened
Following receipt of a letter from a building society saying his current account was 
overdrawn, Mr C contacted the provider  explaining he didnt have an account with them. It 
transpired Mr C was the victim of identity theft, the account had been opened fraudulently 
and the building societys agent suggested he speak to Clear Score to check for other 
accounts.
Mr C contacted Clear Score, who told him an account had already been set up in 
November 2020  seemingly by the fraudster. Mr C questioned the security checks that 
allowed the fraudster to open up the account. Clear Score explained the checks they carry 
out, but Mr C ultimately felt these werent good enough. He explained the result of the 
fraudster accessing his credit file had led to over £36,000 worth of fraud with other financial 
institutions and a significant investment in time to look into matters. So, he complained 
setting out a series of questions he wanted them to answer. 
Clear Score replied to the complaint and set out the checks that are carried out before 
someone is allowed to register for an account with them. They said they believe this is 
strong enough and in line with industry standards, although theyre currently reviewing this 
and it may change going forward. They added in terms of actions taken  theyd blocked the 
account, shared how you register for an account with them, filed the case with Action Fraud, 
also filed the case with CIFAS , sent off a request to a credit reference agency to add a 
password to the credit file, and added a fraud marker to the account with them. Because of 
this, they considered Mr Cs case closed.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
overall found Clear Score had complied with their account registration processes  so didnt 
think they needed to compensate Mr C.
He didnt accept this and asked a number of questions  including saying Clear Score had 
told him they were looking at adding additional security  which he says implies they know 
its not secure enough currently. Because Mr C didnt agree with our Investigator, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Cs complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is Clear Score didnt carry out proper checks when granting 
access to his credit file, leading to a fraudster taking out accounts in his name and causing 
him significant distress and time investment to get matters sorted out. 
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to hear of whats happened to Mr C, as I can appreciate 
this is a very stressful and unpleasant issue to have to deal with.
I should also make it clear I can only require Clear Score to compensate Mr C if I think 
theyve done something wrong, or otherwise treated him unfairly. I cant require them to take 
action if I dont find this  nor can I tell them to change their procedures.
I can see in response to the complaint Mr C raised, Clear Score set out in detail their 
processes for the registration of an account to access a credit file. I wont reiterate this, as 
Mr C is aware of whats been said, but part of this says the verification is done in stages. If 
the first stage is passed, then more specific questions are asked. Mr C has said after raising 
his dispute hes been asked to provide identification, says Clear Score have said they 
usually ask for identification, so he questions why the fraudster wasnt asked for 
identification when registering.
But I think Mr C has misunderstood part of the registration processes here. Clear Score have 
explained there are certain times, such as when someone reports an account has been 
opened fraudulently with them by someone else, theyll immediately lock down the account  
and ask for identification from the person getting in touch to make sure theyre dealing with 
the right person. Clear Score havent said theyd require identification in all situations of 
registering an account. I think this explains then why they didnt ask the fraudster for 
identification but have asked him.
Looking at what happened, it doesnt appear to be in dispute the fraudster was able to obtain 
enough details of Mr Cs to pass the registration processes  but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Clear Score were in some way responsible for those details falling into the 
fraudsters hands. Ive also seen that Mr C raised concerns with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about Clear Score  and they said they didnt think 
Clear Score had done anything wrong.
Ultimately then, despite Mr Cs serious reservations about the quality of Clear Scores 
processes, Ive seen nothing to show they havent followed them correctly. Because of that, I 
wont be requiring them to pay any compensation to Mr C.
I have noted Mr C talks about Clear Score saying they were considering adding an additional 
layer of security  and he says this implies theyve accepted their security isnt strong 
enough. Realistically I think you could interpret this both the way Mr C has, or that 
Clear Score are looking to make things even more secure than they already are. I dont think 
this comment alone shows Clear Score have failed to act fairly in Mr Cs case  so it makes 
no difference to the outcome Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman