DRN-1199830
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to 
lend her money.
What happened
Mr Lender provided two loans to Miss S. Heres a loan table showing further details:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
 
Repayment
1 29/11/2013 30/06/2014 1 £300.00 £405.00
2 02/07/2014 11/02/2016 10 £700.00 £280.00
 
Miss S complained to us that she got herself into a significant amount of debt because she 
was offered unaffordable loans from a number of different payday loan companies, including 
Mr Lender. She said this led to her having to get help from a debt management company to 
get out of trouble. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Ss complaint. She thought Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided loan 2 to Miss S. Our adjudicator set out the steps she said Mr Lender should do to 
put things right.  
Mr Lender disagreed. Mainly it said that the highest repayment on loan 2 was £125 less than 
the highest repayment on loan 1  and her income had gone up by the time she took out 
loan 2. Mr Lender said it did an expenditure assessment when Miss S applied for the second 
loan to ensure it was affordable and this showed that the highest instalment was much lower 
than her declared disposable income, even when allowing for a safety margin. So Mr Lender 
didn't agree it shouldnt have given loan 2 to Miss S. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss S. It asked her for 
details of her income and normal expenditure. And Mr Lender carried out checks on Miss Ss 
credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give Miss S loan 1 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings and what it knew about 
her financial situation at the time from the credit checks it did.
It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender 
to agree to lend. 
As Miss S hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan 
1, I dont think that I need to say more about it.Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, like the adjudicator, I think that by loan 
2 Mr Lender shouldve realised that further lending was likely to be unsustainable for Miss S. 
I say this because at this point:
Mr Lender ought to have realised Miss S had shown clear signs that she wasnt 
managing to repay her loans sustainably. Although shed managed to repay loan 1, 
Miss S had needed to defer (rollover) repayments on loan 1 three times and the 
loan was finally repaid around 6 months after the date it was originally due to be paid
she had then taken out loan 2 just two days later 
the amount she borrowed was more than twice the amount shed first borrowed (and 
had a problem repaying)
she arranged loan 2 as an instalment loan repayable over ten months  possibly to 
keep down the cost of each monthly repayment  
Miss S wasnt making any inroads into the amount she owed Mr Lender and I think 
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was likely that Miss S was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances each 
time and that Miss Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
by the time she took out loan  2 shed been continuously indebted to Mr Lender for a 
full 7 months
so when she asked for loan 2, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that Miss S 
wasnt likely to be borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet 
an ongoing need
 
Ive taken into account that Mr Lender says it did affordability checks  and the repayments 
on loan 2 were less than shed paid on loan 1. But I dont think the small increase in Miss Ss 
monthly income was enough to make any real difference to whether this loan was affordable 
for her  and for the reasons lve explained, I don't think that being able to meet the monthly 
repayments meant she could afford to repay the loan in a way that was sustainable for her.
I think that Miss S lost out when Mr Lender provided loan 2 because:
 
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
 and she paid a lot of interest to service this debt
 
the length of time over which Miss S borrowed was likely to have negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right - what Mr Lender needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2, not including anything already refunded.
 B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
 
C) Pay Miss S the amounts calculated in A and B.
 
D) The overall pattern of Miss Ss borrowing by loan 2 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove this loan entirely from Miss Ss credit file. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint about loan 2. 
Mr Lender should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman