DRN-3824084
The complaint
R, a sole trader business, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lost a copy of its loan agreement.
What happened
R had a commercial mortgage with Lloyds secured on business premises. The loan was 
taken out a number of years ago. Neither Lloyds nor R could find a copy of that loan 
agreement in 2019. R had wanted a payment holiday which it said was allowed for under the 
terms of the agreement. And it referred a separate complaint about that and other issues to 
this service.
An ombudsman colleague issued a final decision about that in January 2022. Notably the 
final decision stated that there had been a request for an investigation into missing 
paperwork. But about which the ombudsman then stated I cant consider and that it could 
be raised separately. So that sole issue is now being considered in this complaint
Lloyds said that the last loan R took out was in 2008. And it noted that R had made a 
subsequent data subject access request (DSAR) in 2020. At that time too, Lloyds said that 
there was no loan agreement to provide to R. And its explained that this may be because of 
the retention policy to keep such documents for ten years. However, it couldnt now say what 
the practice was about keeping documents at local level over time had been. And it thought 
that from the customer notes about R that had been recorded members of staff had 
assumed the loan agreement was lost and or misfiled when a previous payment holiday had 
been agreed. It said that this may have been the case during the lifetime of the loan, but it 
reiterated that by the time of the DSAR no agreement would be expected to be available due 
to retention timescales.
Our investigator said that Lloyds hadnt made a mistake. She said that Lloyds had under its 
own retention policies only had to retain the documents for ten years. She said that shed 
have reasonably expected R to keep a copy.
R didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It wanted to know 
exactly when Lloyds destroyed the loan agreement and what evidence we have to show 
when and where this happened. It wanted to know the broad time period even if the exact 
date wasnt known. R said it was never told before that this was destroyed but always that 
this had been lost. This had caused stress to the owner who wasnt able to apply certain 
parts of the agreement while it remained live and was poor service. R said that Lloyds was 
required to be able to provide a copy of the documents under relevant regulations. And it 
wanted to know how Lloyds had adhered to its own retention policy and data protection 
requirements. Had the document been lost there could have been a breach of Rs 
information. It said that the loan hadnt been paid off until the end of 2019.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to this complaint on 25 October 2022. I set out below what I 
said.
I said that this service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent the regulator. Id 
take into account whats relevant in deciding on this complaint and the impact for R.
Id seen a note from a DSAR case officer at Lloyds stating that for a business loan document 
the general retention period would be ten years. But that prior to loans being opened 
centrally they were dealt with locally and due to all the business changes it isnt possible to 
obtain further data. And that there is no loan agreement with R available. I could see that 
Lloyds specifically responded to a DSAR from R on 20 November 2020.
Frankly I didnt think Lloyds knew exactly what has happened to this loan agreement. What it 
says is based on inference. As R has seen from the DSAR, the customer notes and internal 
emails by Lloyds staff referred to it. And for example, on 8 January 2019 stated that we 
should still have the loan agreement as it is live. And a note was made that it couldnt be 
found in a storage facility. It was noted that the agreement had been accessed in 2014 when 
a previous payment holiday had been granted and unsuccessful attempts were made to see 
if it had been misfiled. On 28 January 2019 a member of staff wrote an email referring to the 
loan agreement which is lost.
In a complaint response letter to R of 12 February 2019 Lloyds stated in relation to the loan 
agreement that unfortunately we cannot locate it. When investigating the previous 
complaint this service was also under the impression that this was lost.
Given what is available Im afraid it's just not going to be possible to provide the further detail 
that R wants. And so, Ill need to base my decision on what I have. 
It seems to me that it would be entirely sensible for Lloyds to hold a copy of documentation 
for a live loan. And that relevant Lloyds staff would have a better understanding of that being 
necessary when this was looked into in 2019. As Ive referred to above a complaint was 
upheld in favour of R. I was satisfied that the consequences of not having that loan 
agreement in terms of the payment holiday and other issues were considered as part of the 
previous complaint and dealt with my ombudsman colleague. And I needed to make clear 
that whether the loan agreement wasnt available due to being lost or destroyed made no 
difference at that stage. That complaint was resolved, the loan is no longer live, and it seems 
to me that such documentation as a result would fall to have been destroyed by now given 
its age in any event.
R has seen two different explanations of what had happened to the documentation. When it 
believed the documentation was lost the owner says he was very worried and stressed 
about data protection. And if it had been destroyed then this wouldnt have been at issue, but 
he thinks still a mistake.
I needed to say that even if the documentation had been lost that didnt necessarily mean 
that it had left Lloyds premises. R has no evidence of any breach of its data. The concern is 
about the potential risk and what might have happened. Given the time since the loan 
agreement was issued, the period over which it hasnt been locatable and the lack of any 
other evidence, I didnt have a basis to think that there has been any actual breach or 
misuse of Rs information. And I wouldnt be taking into account what might have happened - 
only what did.
R was clearly impacted by there not being a loan agreement at Lloyds in 2019 as it didnt 
have its own copy. And the previous complaint dealt with that. So, I could and will only now 
think about any marginal impact for R from the inconsistent explanation it has seen from 
Lloyds about what happened to the missing agreement, the poor service and the element of 
worry and distress when seeing customer notes referring to the loss: thats the impact for R. 
And having taken into account our published guidelines about compensation and applied my own judgement I consider that it would be reasonable for R to be paid £200 to reflect that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
R said that the compensation of £200 was inadequate. It agreed that there had been poor 
service relating to the loss of the agreement. But it said that the impact of the loss of the 
agreement wasnt really dealt with in the previous complaint. R said that if Lloyds hadnt lost 
the agreement it would almost certainly have continued to repay the loan at two percent 
interest and paid if off in full by October 2020. But it said that instead of that it now has a 
loan with a different business at a significantly higher interest rate and that the compensation 
of £200 is only £5 a month which goes little way towards losses. Any compensation R 
received before wouldnt be for the loss of its documents in the first instance.
Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional decision. It wanted to know what distress R was 
caused by poor service. And it said that it paid R £300 on 22 September 2020 in relation to a 
complaint about a DSAR. 
I consider I need to expand the quote I gave from the previous decision issued by my 
ombudsman colleague. In context that said:
I will begin by explaining that I am unable to look at any issues that havent yet been raised
with Lloyds as a complaint. So, although Ive noted [Rs] comments about the bridging loan
and his request for an investigation into missing paperwork, I cant consider these. [R] will
first need to raise these with Lloyds and, if [] unhappy with the banks response, [] can
bring a fresh complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
This complaint I am looking at is only about the missing paperwork which it was 
subsequently decided and agreed with Lloyds could be considered without the need for R to 
make a new complaint. However, it remains the case that if R wishes to raise the issue of 
the impact of taking the bridging loan and subsequent financing arrangements it will still 
need to pursue that with Lloyds first. Im not aware it has yet done so from the evidence of 
either party and Im clear thats not within the scope of what I have considered here. 
Ive looked again at the final response Lloyds has also referred to in relation to the DSAR. 
This said that it paid R £300 for not responding to you sooner and providing better service. 
And it related to Lloyds having not actioned an earlier request from R. I dont agree that this 
dealt with the investigation into lost paperwork.
I remain of the view that the compensation for the poor service and distress relating to the 
worry about possible data protection issues remains appropriate. I would refer Lloyds to 
what I said in my provisional decision above about that.
In summary I make clear that the previous final decision clearly addressed all complaint 
points for R in the knowledge that the loan paperwork hadnt been available. R had the 
opportunity to deal with all issues then raised but clearly excluding those arising it says from 
taking the bridging loan. So, I wont be reopening the assessment of any impact of this as far 
as that complaint is concerned. And Im afraid I wont be able to look at any new complaint 
points here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay R £200.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman