DRN-4121844
The complaint
Mr N complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd failed to 
identify there was a rebalancing feature on his existing Aegon pension. Six months after 
investing with Quilter, his pension fund was switched to cash crystalising a loss when hed 
wished to remain invested. 
Mr N would now like Quilter to recompense him for the loss he says hes incurred because of 
his savings being incorrectly rebalanced to cash.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr N met with an adviser from Quilter to discuss his retirement planning 
needs. At the time he held a pension with Aegon that was invested in a cash fund. The 
Aegon plan had been used the year before by his previous adviser to accept the funds from 
a defined benefit (DB) pension transfer. In June 2018, after assessing Mr Ns circumstances, 
Quilter recommended he retain the Aegon plan but undertake a fund switch into the Premier 
Multi-Asset fund. At the same time, Quilter were added to the plan as Mr Ns servicing 
adviser allowing them to administer the policy on his behalf. 
In December 2018, Aegon automatically switched Mr Ns savings out of the Premier Multi-
Asset fund and into cash. In March 2019, Mr N received his Aegon valuation statement that 
was showing a loss, so he queried this with his adviser. After looking into the issue, Quilter 
was advised by Aegon the policy contained a rebalance feature. That meant on the plan 
anniversary, the funds would be automatically sold down to cash.
Unhappy with the loss, Mr N raised a complaint with the original adviser who facilitated the 
DB transfer. Mr Ns complaint was declined by that firm as they didnt believe theyd done 
anything wrong. So, Mr N raised a complaint with this service about that provider, which was 
considered and subsequently not upheld.
As Mr N was unhappy with that outcome, he raised a complaint with Aegon for not making 
Quilter aware of the rebalance feature. In summary, Aegon rejected Mr Ns complaint on the 
basis that his Quilter adviser had access to their online portal, so he wouldve been able to 
access Mr Ns plan details and switch off the rebalance option should he have wished. Mr N 
then complained to this service. His complaint was considered by one of our investigators 
and again, not upheld.
Wishing to hold someone to account for the error, Mr N then complained to Quilter in April 
2022. After reviewing his complaint, Quilter concluded they were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said in summary:
That Mr N shouldve been aware there was a rebalancing feature. Thats because the 
rebalance option was included on the original application form he completed in 2017 and 
he also received a contract note in January 2018 explaining it was included.
As the monies came from a DB transfer completed on an insistent customer basis, Mr N 
mustve known the basis of which the Aegon pension was set up on at the time.
They were of the view that as rebalancing is such an unusual feature, it was Aegons 
responsibility to let Quilter know and not for them to ask Aegon.
Mr N was unhappy with Quilters response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns that hed already raised with Quilter, that they 
shouldve identified the rebalancing feature and switched it off.
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Quilter 
hadnt treated Mr N fairly and felt his complaint should be upheld. She also said in summary, 
that it was Quilters responsibility to ensure the plan was set up in the manner theyd agreed 
with Mr N as they provided the advice to retain the plan.
Quilter however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, they said given 
Aegon had stated theyre going to revise their procedures to include details of rebalancing 
on future queries suggests theres a gap in the information theyve previously given out. Our 
investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Quilter had 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to already.
Quilter then asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was 
planning to uphold Mr Ns complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in 
full below.
My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst Ive considered all the detailed 
submissions made by both parties, this decision focuses on the crux of the issues, which 
reflects the informal nature of this service. I consider this to be determining whether Quilter 
should be held accountable for the losses Mr N says he suffered because his pension was 
switched into cash. Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why below.
Ive read the various detailed submissions from Mr N, Quilter and the complaints linked to 
both his previous adviser (who facilitated the DB transfer) and Aegon. Theres been much 
contention around why the original adviser added the rebalancing feature to Mr Ns plan, the 
fact he shouldve been aware of its existence and that Aegon shouldve highlighted this to 
Quilter. However, this decision focuses on the actions of Quilter as opposed to Mr Ns 
previous adviser or Aegon.
But, its important to understand the background about how Mr N found himself in this 
position. When Mr N received advice from his previous financial adviser about his DB 
scheme, they advised him not to move it. He subsequently went against that advice and 
asked them to undertake the transfer on an insistent customer basis. He initially asked them 
to move the DB monies into his existing Aviva scheme. After looking at that plan, his adviser 
informed him he could only arrange for the funds to be moved to his existing Aegon SIPP. 
The transfer application form was competed in November 2017 and in March 2018, Mr N 
sought advice from Quilter on how to invest the proceeds. We understand the rebalance 
feature was added as a default option but was immaterial to Mr Ns circumstances at the 
time. Thats because Mr N had explained to his adviser, hed always planned to move the monies from the Aegon plan to his Aviva policy after the DB transfer had completed. That 
position changed when he took advice from Quilter, and they advised he leave the Aegon 
plan where it was and undertake a fund switch only.
As the monies came from a DB transfer completed on an insistent customer basis, Quilter 
said Mr N mustve known the basis of which the Aegon plan was set up on at the time. 
Thats because the rebalance option was included on the DB transfer/ Aegon application 
form he completed in 2017 and he received a contract note in January 2018 pointing this 
out. However, Mr N was an inexperienced customer and even if he did know it was included 
at the time (and understood what it was), given Mr N was paying Quilter to provide him with 
new advice, its not unreasonable for him to conclude Quilter had fully reviewed the plan and 
reconfigured it to his needs which theyd just recently established.
I asked Aegon what information is sent to either the adviser or consumer when a rebalance 
is undertaken. Aegon explained that contract notes or notifications arent issued in such 
circumstances because they take the view as the rebalance instruction is added by the 
adviser, they should know when the alteration is due to happen. In addition, Aegon pointed 
to their terms and conditions that highlighted they wouldnt issue contract notes on rebalance 
transactions. And in any event, they said details of the rebalance would always be available 
to view in their portal whenever either the consumer or adviser logs into the account. So, as 
the rebalance was added by the consumers former adviser, Quilter wouldnt necessarily 
know it existed until such time it was identified in the Aegon system. Quilter said it was 
Aegons responsibility for them to highlight the rebalance feature. Something which Aegon 
didnt do when Quilter wrote to them asking for detailed plan information.
However, Im not persuaded by Quilters arguments that fault for the unwanted rebalance 
lies elsewhere. The important consideration here is what was under Quilters sphere of 
influence at the time of the rebalance. Whether or not the rebalance feature shouldve been 
added when the DB transfer was undertaken, I think is largely irrelevant to this complaint. 
Thats because Quilter were added to Aegons system as his servicing adviser in June 2018. 
From that point forward, it didnt matter what had come before as they became ultimately 
responsible for ensuring the plan was calibrated in the manner with what had been agreed 
with Mr N. Quilter were paid an implementation fee and an ongoing fee to look after Mr Ns 
pension and as such, should have had sufficient checks in place at both the start of the 
relationship and on an ongoing basis to ensure his wishes were being applied correctly to 
how and where his monies were being invested. 
Quilter were aware Mr Ns plan had to be administered on Aegons portal. Had they properly 
checked his plan at the start of the relationship, they ought then to have noticed the 
rebalance feature. The same feature was also covered in Aegons terms and conditions and 
whilst its not clear if Quilter had a copy of those, if they did not, they should have asked for a 
set.
Contrary to Quilters contention, I dont believe Aegon have admitted their systems are 
deficient by failing to highlight the rebalance feature when they provided plan information to 
them. Aegon have only explained theyve passed feedback about the complaint into the 
relevant team who will then consider whether they need to alter their processes in the future. 
Theyve given no warranty theyll make such a change or indeed, if its even necessary. I 
well suspect thats just a normal housekeeping process they follow when reviewing root 
cause on all complaints they receive. 
Finally, Mr N explained that he spoke to his adviser on the telephone in January 2019 
querying his plan after hed seen the value decrease in the Aegon portal. Whilst Quilter say 
theyve no record of this discussion, Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ns version of events. Mr N 
explained he questioned why the value had fallen with his Quilter adviser who he says, told him it was likely to be a consequence of normal market variations. Im of the view this 
discussion is important because I think Quilter missed an opportunity to stop the loss. Had 
they checked the Aegon portal as part of the discussion with him, I think it more likely than 
not they wouldve identified Mr Ns monies had been incorrectly rebalanced. That wouldve 
given them the opportunity to put things right sooner. I well suspect given Mr N was assured 
the decreases were nothing to worry about, he had no reason to question the issue further 
until he received his statement in March 2019. 
So, overall for the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint and require Quilter to put 
things right in the manner Ive set out below. 
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision Mr N contacted this service and explained he didnt 
have anything further to add. Quilter did not provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented any further information, it therefore follows that I uphold the 
complaint for the same reasons Ive already set out above.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put back as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if had his funds not been switched to cash.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr N's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with the notional value if it had remained 
within the same funds. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr N wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr N would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr N £200 for the length of time its taken Quilter to resolve the rebalancing issue. Allied 
to this, Mr N had to raise complaints with two other businesses and this service on both 
those occasions to get to this point so the £200 will recompense Mr N for the inconvenience 
and trouble caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr N asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon 
pensionStill exists 
and liquidPremier Multi-
Asset fund28 
December 
2018
(date 
switched to 
cash)Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year if 
Quilter have 
not paid any 
redress due 
within 30 
days of the 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr N's investment had it remained within the original Aegon funds until 
the end date. Quilter should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N didnt want his monies rebalanced to cash and therefore, this will place him 
back in the same position he wouldve been in as if the sale had not taken place.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman