DRN-1917369
The complaint
Mrs P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a payment she made to a 
builder who did not commence the planned job. 
What happened
In spring 2019, Mrs P wanted to have work done on her bathroom and downstairs 
cloakroom. She found a builder using a website promoting recommended local 
tradespeople.
On 25 April 2019, the builder came to Mrs Ps home to survey the job. He gave her a quote 
of £7,300 for the work and suggested she would need to pay a deposit of £2,954 for 
materials. Mrs P decided to go ahead. The job was pencilled in to start on 1 July 2019. 
On 26 April 2019 Mrs P went into her local branch and made a bank transfer of £2,954 to the 
builders bank account. Mrs P explains that she felt safe transferring the deposit as the 
builder held a business bank account with the same bank.
Mrs P explains that she found it difficult to get hold of the builder to discuss follow up points 
and questions she had. The builder did eventually reply to say hed been out of the country 
and had suffered a bereavement, but he was on track to commence the job as planned. 
A few days before the job was due to start, Mrs P contacted the builder to make 
arrangements for the delivery of some tiles. The builder agreed he would pick them up. 
The night before the job was due to start, the builder sent Mrs P a text message. He said he 
was unable to start the job as planned as he was being admitted into hospital. He did not 
respond to Mrs Ps text message asking about his health and his prognosis.
On 4 July 2019, Mrs P sent an email to the builder as shed not heard anything further. She 
suggested it would be best for him to recover fully and asked him to refund the deposit shed 
paid. The builder did not reply. 
Mrs P received an email from the website saying it was removing the builder from its list of 
tradespeople. By 10 July 2019 it seemed unlikely the builder was going to start the job so 
Mrs P asked NatWest for help. Mrs P says the bank gave her the impression that funds still 
remained and that the builders account would be frozen. 
After hearing nothing more, Mrs P contacted the bank to follow up. NatWest says it reissued 
a letter it had initially sent to Mrs P on 21 July 2019. Upon learning that the claim had not 
been successful, Mrs P made a complaint. 
On 6 September 2019, NatWest issued its final response. It said it had followed industry 
procedures and couldnt reimburse the loss. It said no funds remained in the beneficiary 
account. 
Mrs P felt let down with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend that NatWest should 
refund Mrs P. He didnt think the bank could have done any more to prevent Mrs P from 
losing the money. He didnt think the payment would have appeared particularly unusual or 
suspicious at the time it was made. He noted that it would not have been possible to know 
that the builder would not do the work at the time Mrs P paid the deposit, so he didnt think 
the bank had missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been in 
relation to a scam. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. She explained she was not in 
the best of health and it would be too stressful to take the matter to court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs P and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover her money. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. But having 
thought carefully about NatWests actions, I think it acted fairly and reasonably in allowing 
the payment to be made. I also think it took appropriate steps to try and recover the funds 
from the beneficiary account. So I dont think it needs to reimburse Mrs P with the money 
she lost. I know this is going to be disappointing for Mrs P, so Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Mrs P made the payment in 
branch, she sent the money in good faith and didnt know the builder was not going to do the 
job. But at that time, Mrs P wanted the payment to go ahead and agreed that it could be 
made. Although she did not intend for the money to go to a rogue builder, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mrs P is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available. This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs P when it processed a payment of £2,954 to a new payee or whether it should have 
done more than it did. 
Mrs P doesnt dispute that she made the payment herself in branch. So NatWest should 
follow her instructions and make the payment as instructed unless theres a reason for the 
bank to be concerned that she might be at risk of financial harm. Making a transaction that is 
out of character and unusual could be a sign that a customer is at risk of financial harm. 
But in this case, I dont think Mrs Ps activity that day should have given cause for wider 
concern, even if the payment was larger than she would typically spend day to day. I dont 
know for sure exactly what Mrs P discussed in the branch at the time, but it seems more 
likely than not that the payment was considered to be unremarkable by both parties. 
The bank has said Mrs P instructed it to pay an appropriate amount for a plausible 
purpose. In addition to this, Mrs P had found the builder on a website that other people had 
used successfully, and shed met him in person when he came to survey the job. Mrs P 
accepts that at the time she made the payment there was nothing to indicate that the builder 
would not commence the work as planned. Against this backdrop, I dont think NatWest 
acted unreasonably by following the instruction she gave and sending the money.  
So Ive gone on to think about whether NatWest did what it should have done once Mrs P 
alerted it to the problem with the payment. For me to be able to fairly ask NatWest to
refund the money to Mrs P, Id need to be satisfied that NatWest should have acted to try 
and recover the money sooner and, if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide
whether it made any difference. But from what Ive seen, I dont think the way NatWest 
handled the situation has caused Mrs P to lose out. 
I can see NatWest started looking into the situation quickly after being notified, which is what 
I would expect it to do. Ive also seen evidence that none of Mrs Ps funds remained in the 
builders account. So NatWest wasnt able to recover the money she had sent because it 
had already been utilised. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that NatWest did what it 
should have done and it did not miss an opportunity to recover any funds. I understand this 
news came as a shock to Mrs P. She suggested the bank had given her the impression that 
funds remained. I do think the bank ought to have explained much more clearly that whilst it 
would do all it reasonably could, recovery of funds was not guaranteed. But as I dont think 
the outcome would have been any different if the bank had been clearer, Im not making any 
award of compensation here. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Mrs P has been through. I can appreciate this whole 
experience will have been upsetting. I have no doubt that the builders actions will have 
affected her both financially and emotionally. But I am only able to consider whether 
NatWest can fairly be held liable for her loss. In this case, Ive not seen any evidence to 
show that NatWest acted incorrectly when making the payment, or that it ought to have done 
more than it did to assist Mrs P when it learned what had happened. It follows that I cant 
fairly require NatWest to refund the money Mrs P lost.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman