DRN-1607466
The complaint
Miss J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Miss J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. She paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. The policy covered Miss J in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Miss J said, through her representative, 
that:
she was transferring to an endowment policy and she wasn't given the option of not 
having PPI;
she wouldn't have taken PPI if given a choice; and
she had savings in her building society accounts and in individual savings accounts 
to pay off her mortgage. The reason why she moved mortgages was because of 
Halifax's offer. The interest she was getting on her savings was more than the 
interest payable on her mortgage, so she decided to move.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss J's case.
I've not found that this policy was mis-sold Ill explain why.
This sale took place nearly 25 years ago and the mortgage account involved has long since 
closed. I can't know what was discussed between Halifax and Miss J at the time. But, 
looking at the paperwork she completed to take out the mortgage and PPI I can see she 
signed a mortgage application recommending PPI, and also a separate PPI application form, 
to take out the cover. From this, I think it likely that Halifax made it clear that PPI was a 
separate and optional product. The cost was listed separately from Miss J's mortgage 
payment. 
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Miss J into thinking it was 
compulsory. But I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did  here. Nor have I 
seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to 
defend itself now. I can't see that Halifax misled her into believing she had to take PPI to get 
the mortgage. Looking at the paperwork I think Halifax probably recommended the PPI to Miss J. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I can't see that it was inappropriate for her. For example, Miss J 
was working and eligible for cover, and I can't see that she was affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations on cover.
Miss J said she had a substantial amount of savings at the time of sale, over 1 years' worth 
of salary, and enough not to need the mortgage. We asked Miss J for evidence of her 
savings. She hasn't got anything to show this now, which is not unsurprising after so much 
time. I've also looked at the paperwork that Miss J completed at the time. Her savings were 
listed on the mortgage paperwork. The savings she mentioned  then were much less than 
she recalls having now.
I think it likely that the information Miss J gave at the time is more reliable. It was given at the 
time of events and when she was going through all her finances in detail to obtain a 
mortgage. I'm conscious that memories can, and do, fade over time, that this sale was 
particularly long ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often memorable. I can't see that 
Miss J's other resources clearly made the PPI inappropriate for her. 
At the time she took out the new mortgage retaining her savings seemed to be important to 
her. She kept hold of these instead of reducing her borrowing. The PPI would've allowed her 
to retain her savings, whatever the reason, knowing that her repayments were covered in the 
event of accident or sickness.
Miss J said she would've been eligible to get some pay through work. However, the 
PPI would've paid out on top of this and for up to 12 months per successful claim. So, I can't 
see that this made the policy inappropriate.
I think the policy appeared suitable and could've provided Miss J with valuable protection, in 
her circumstances.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Miss J about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. But as I explained above, Miss J wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced and appeared affordable given how much it 
would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss J could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put her off taking out the cover.
So, I don't think that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss J.
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because:
When the policy was sold, Bank of Scotland expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Miss J about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Miss J, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman