DRN-3290396
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down a claim on its business interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr K has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
C has also been helped in bringing this complaint by a representative. For ease of reading,
Ill refer to the representatives actions and comments as being those of C.
What happened
C held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Allianz turned down Cs claim as it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They 
added that while the policy covered a list of specified illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
illnesses covered.
Unhappy with Allianzs response, C brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should 
be covered under different sections of the policy. Ive set out a summary of its submissions 
below.
Damage
C said the business interruption section of the policy covers damage and the definition of 
damage is wide enough to cover a loss of property even where there hasnt been physical 
damage. C referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) 
to support its view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of its 
business due to Covid-19. C said its business had been prevented from operating properly 
and this amounted to damage. 
C also said that there is nothing in the policy which specifically excluded the outbreak of 
Covid-19 and the effect of it on its business and if this was intended it should have been 
properly drafted into the policy as an exclusion. 
Because it feels the definition of damage is wide enough to cover the circumstances its 
found itself in, C also feels the Prevention of Access section of the policy should engage as 
the Government prevented C from accessing its premises as a result of the lockdown it 
imposed.
Specified Disease
C said the list of illnesses set out in the policy arent an exhaustive list and theres nothing 
in the policy to say that new illnesses cant be added. C said the list of illnesses are very 
similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and therefore its reasonable to 
conclude that Covid-19 should be added. They cited a German case to support this.
C said there had been a number of cases of Covid-19 within 5 miles of its premises and 
two members of staff have had to self-isolate due to Covid-19 symptoms, so this part of the 
policy should cover its claim.
Action by police, Government or other competent authority
C said that although Aviva is relying on a disease exclusion to deny cover under this clause, 
this contradicts their interpretation of the policy- particularly where they say Covid-19 doesnt 
fall within the list of specified diseases set out by the policy. 
Other factors
C also said it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the Government 
towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its policy would 
provide cover in these circumstances.
C also says theres no pandemic exclusion in the policy so Aviva shouldnt be able to limit 
cover for Covid-19.
In addition, it thinks the defective sanitation section of cover could engage in the 
circumstances of Cs claim.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Cs claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think 
the policy provided cover. C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead 
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.
Damage
The business interruption section of the policy says:
We will cover You for either Loss of Income or Increased Surgery Expenses, as 
stated in Your Schedule, resulting from Damage to property used by You at Your 
Premises for the purposes of Your Practice.
This section of the policy defines damage as:Physical loss, destruction or damage
I dont agree that this section would provide cover for Cs claim, because I dont think 
the business interruption was as a result of damage as defined by the policy.
C has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). 
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered 
this, but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Cs claim, 
including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v 
British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that for damage to have occurred, there would need to have been a physical 
change or an altered state to Cs property or business premises which made it less 
valuable. But thats not what happened here. Alternatively, its possible damage could 
be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Cs 
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings 
doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive 
amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Cs contents or its premises generally. And the presence of 
any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage.  
So all in all I dont think C is able to show that Damage occurred in this case. But even 
if it did- I dont think C would be able to demonstrate the additional requirement of the 
policy- namely that Damage occurred as a result of one of the thirteen listed Insured 
Events. None of those apply in the circumstances of Cs claim, nor do they bear any 
similarity to the circumstances of the claim C is making. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that Aviva was required to specifically exclude an 
outbreak of Covid-19 in order for the Damage requirement of the policy to be interpreted 
differently. 
And because I dont think the definition of Damage covers the circumstances of Cs 
claim, I cant agree that the Prevention of Access section of the policy engages either- 
which also requires Damage to be present.
C has said that it anticipates the outcome of Concept Group v FM Insurance will be 
relevant to the issue of damage. Until that case is decided, I cant comment further. 
Specified Disease
This section of the policy covers a Specified Disease occurring at Cs premises or within 
five miles of the boundary of its premises. 
Specified Disease means any of the following disease contracted by any person:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Erysipeloid Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy,
Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia,
Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, Plague,
Rabies, Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, Tu
berculosis, Typhoid Fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping cough or
Yellow fever
Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses:Lassa virus, Junin virus, Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus,
Marburg virus, Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever
virus, Yellow fever virus, Dengue virus.
Covid-19 isnt in that list which means that its not covered by the policy. When reaching this 
finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Allianz might have known about when the 
policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable diseases. 
While I accept that the list in Cs policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable 
diseases, there are a number of differences as the investigator has explained. Cs policy 
does not say that it covers notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy.
And while there is nothing in the section that specifically says any new illnesses are 
excluded, there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for illnesses 
not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. This issue was considered in In 
Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 where the Judge 
said:
The Policy in this case takes a very different approach setting out its own static list 
including only a limited list of the diseases that were known to the parties at the time. That 
list does not include diseases that are subsequently discovered, for the simple reason that 
they are not on the list. There is no future-looking "catch-all" wording. Thus whilst a "catch-
all" "Notifiable Disease" clause is (depending on its wording) likely to be inclusive of 
diseases which are added (after the time of contracting) to the statutory list of 'Notifiable 
Diseases', a defined list of diseases is not.
Overall, I dont think this section can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases, so even if 
there were cases of Covid-19 within five miles of Cs premises or indeed on it, this doesnt 
cover its claim. 
I appreciate Cs reference to a German case on this point, but that case isnt applicable to 
English law and doesnt in any event change this Services approach to specified illness 
clauses like the one in this complaint. 
Action by police, Government or other competent authority
This clause covers interruption due to the prevention or restriction of access of Cs premises 
by any Police, Government or other competent authority due to an emergency event within 
one mile of the boundary of Cs premises that causes or threatens danger or disturbance. 
It also contains an exclusion for any loss resulting from action taken in controlling, 
preventing or suppressing the spread of any disease.
Aviva have relied on this exclusion to turn down Cs claim under this section of cover. I know 
C feels that this is contradictory given the Specified Disease section of the policy doesnt 
cover Covid-19, but I dont think the policy can or should be interpreted as covering its 
claim. 
The term Specified Disease is capitalised and consequently defined by the policy, whereas 
the exclusion contained under this section of the policy is not. Disease on its own is not 
capitalised or defined so it doesnt limit cover in the same way. The circumstances of Cs 
claim fall squarely within the exclusion set out by this section of the policy in that C was 
closed by a Government-imposed lockdown intended to control and suppress the spread of 
Covid-19. This was confirmed in the FCAs test case in part of the judgment which wasnt 
subject to appeal. At paragraph 376, Lord Justice Flaux said:The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local authority,
and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an infectious
disease. Accordingly, the [exclusion] applies and there is no cover under [this policy]
wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the premises.
So whilst I take on board what C has said, I dont think the two references to disease can be 
read as meaning the same thing or that this makes the policy ambiguous, such that it should 
be read in Cs favour. 
Other factors
Although C might have had an expectation its claim would be covered, or understood the 
same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Cs policy provides 
cover for its claim.
I know C feels Allianz should have drafted a pandemic exclusion into the policy if it wanted 
to specifically exclude Covid-19 from cover. I think the policy sets out a number of different 
circumstances in which C would be covered for business interruption. Its true that claims 
arising out of Covid-19 dont attract cover, but this doesnt mean that Allianz was required 
to specifically exclude cover for this. I think the policy goes far enough to limit cover for 
what Allianz was prepared to cover in the circumstances of Cs claim, and that Allianz 
interpreted those terms fairly when turning down its claim. 
C has said the defective sanitation clause hasnt been considered. Ive looked at that clause 
and I dont think it makes any difference to Cs complaint. Thats because it covers loss 
resulting from any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at 
the Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or
advice of the competent local authority
For this to provide cover, the restrictions placed on Cs premises would need to be due to an
accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements. I think this extension
would reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems with the premises
toilets or washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to prevent the spread
of a disease by closing. In any event, I dont think the Governments advice on social 
distancing or requiring businesses to close was due to a defect in their sanitary 
arrangements as businesses were required to close irrespective of their sanitary 
arrangements.
I understand this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman