DRN-2247711
The complaint
Mr F complains about the amount that hes been charged by PSA Finance UK Limited, 
trading as PSA Finance, for excess mileage driven in a car that was supplied to him under a  
hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance that he 
signed in February 2016 and he agreed to make 36 monthly payments of £172.81 for the 
car, but insurance and servicing increased the monthly payment to £242.87 (and there was 
also a final payment). The agreement included an annual mileage limit of 6,667 but, due to a 
change in his circumstances, Mr F contacted PSA Finance in August 2016 about increasing 
the total mileage allowed to 35,000 and he was sent a quote for 30 payments of £243.25 and 
a final payment of £4,451.27.
He says that he returned the signed paperwork to PSA Finance so understood that the 
mileage allowance had been increased and he didnt notice that the small change to his 
monthly payment hadnt been made. He says that he logged into his account in December  
2018 when he was approaching the end of his contract and noticed that the mileage 
allowance was showing as 20,001 so he again contacted PSA Finance  it gave him another 
quote and he complained to it about his mileage limit not being increased in August 2016. 
He returned the car when the agreement ended and it was inspected by a third party on 
behalf of PSA Finance in March 2019. The inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 
being 35,763 and identified damage to the car. PSA charged him for the damage and 
£657.28 for excess mileage. He complained about the charges but wasnt satisfied with PSA 
Finances response so complained to this service. He says that hes willing to pay any 
charges for mileage over 35,000 and the difference of monthly premium since the date the 
mileage increase was agreed. He says that he thinks that the charges for damage are unfair 
but PSA Finance has explained that the damage is more than fair wear and tear so hes 
willing to make those payments.
The investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld and that PSA Finance 
should remove the excess mileage charge levied on the mileage above 20,001 to 35,000 
and invoice Mr F for the increased monthly payment from £242.87 to £243.25 for the period 
since he requested the increase. He said that PSA Finance was entitled to charge Mr F for 
excess mileage on the miles recorded above the 35,000 limit.
PSA Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
Mr F requested a mileage increase in August 2016 and December 2018 but neither quote 
was taken up so and, when the car was collected in March 2019, it charged Mr F the 
appropriate level of excess mileage in line with the terms and conditions of his agreement. It 
says that theres no evidence to support Mr Fs assertion that it was negligent in not 
processing his original request. It also says that Mr F has expressed interest in setting an 
affordable payment plan to clear his damage charges but no such arrangement is in place 
and it remains willing to discuss payment options with him. 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F 
and to PSA Finance on 2 September 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the cars mileage when it was returned 
was 35,763. PSA Finance has charged him £657.28 for excess mileage. Its also 
charged him for damage to the car. Mr F says that the damage charges are unfair 
and that hes been overcharged for them but he hes willing to pay them. The car was 
inspected and damage was identified. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the damage would reasonably be considered to be fair wear or 
tear or that Mr F has been overcharged for that damage.
Nor is there any dispute that Mr F contacted PSA Finance in August 2016 about 
increasing the total mileage allowed to 35,000. He was sent a quote for 30 payments 
of £243.25 and a final payment of £4,451.27. He says that he returned the signed 
paperwork to PSA Finance so understood that the mileage allowance had been 
increased and he didnt notice that the small change to his monthly payment hadnt 
been made.
PSA Finance says that the quote was incorrect as the mileage hadnt been increased 
in its quote system and, if Mr F had accepted the quote, it wouldnt have been able to 
validate it in its system and he would have been advised of the error. It continued to 
collect the payments set out in the agreement from Mr F and I consider that it would 
be reasonable to expect Mr F to have noticed that his monthly payment hadnt 
increased. I also consider that it wouldnt be reasonable for him to expect that his 
total monthly payment would only be increasing by 38p when hed asked for his 
mileage limit to be increased from 20,001 to 35,000. The agreement said that excess 
mileage would be charged at a rate of 8p per mile.
Mr F hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that he returned the signed 
paperwork to PSA Finance in August 2016 and PSA Finance says that it didnt 
receive it. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr F returned 
the signed paperwork to PSA Finance or that it acted incorrectly in not increasing the 
mileage limit at that time.
PSA Finance has accepted that the quote that it gave to Mr F was incorrect. I 
consider that its error has contributed to the issue about which Mr F has complained 
and that Mr F has been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of its error. I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PSA Finance to 
reduce the excess mileage charges by £150 to compensate Mr F for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused.
Other than that reduction, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require PSA Finance to waive (or further reduce) the excess mileage charges that its 
charged him or to take any other action in response to Mr Fs complaint. I suggest 
that Mr F contacts PSA Finance to try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement 
for the amount that he owes it.
So subject to any further representations by Mr F or PSA Finance, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Mr F says that if hed had the gift of foresight he would have sent the original quote back by 
recorded delivery but he followed the procedure and refuses to pay for a mistake made with 
the post or by PSA Finance. He says that PSA Finance will have to take him to court to 
resolve this dispute. PSA Finance hasnt responded to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PSA Finance to reduce the excess 
mileage charges by £150 to compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Other than that reduction, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require PSA Finance to waive (or further reduce) the excess mileage charges that its 
charged him or to take any other action in response to Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F says that PSA Finance will have to take him to court to resolve this dispute but if he 
doesnt take action to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for the amount that he 
owes it, I consider that its likely that it will default his account and record adverse 
information on his credit file which could have significant consequences for him. So I suggest 
that he contacts PSA Finance to try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for the 
amount that he owes it.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PSA Finance to reduce 
the excess mileage charges by £150 to compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience 
that hes been caused. But other than that, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require PSA Finance to waive (or further reduce) the excess mileage charges that 
its charged him or to take any other action in response to Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and I order PSA Finance UK Limited to 
reduce the excess mileage charges by £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman