DRN-3434829
The complaint
This is a complaint that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold Mrs B and Mr F 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs B and Mr F have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. However, the policy 
did start over 21 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the 
details from something that long ago. And Ive seen some of the documents from the time  
and I can see that the mortgage offer did say that Mrs B and Mr F had selected a particular 
monthly benefit for PPI; and there is also a direct debit form for the PPI, which Mrs B and 
Mr F both signed. So I think it is likely they were aware of the PPI at the time, and agreed to 
it, even if they dont now remember that. 
Its unlikely NatWest recommended the PPI to Mrs B and Mr F as being suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. And 
so it would have been for Mrs B and Mr F to decide whether it was suitable and worth the 
cost  or whether they wanted to have no PPI or to shop elsewhere. 
 
But even if NatWest had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mrs B and Mr F received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put 
off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs B and Mr F 
in a more secure position if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out.
Its hard to know how well NatWest explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs B and Mr F took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman