DRN-3147812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. In January 2020 they booked a package trip with intended departure and return 
dates of 24 March 2020 and 7 April 2020 respectively. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign  
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to 
Mr and Mrs Hs intended destination.
Mr and Mrs H made a claim against their policy. UKI declined the claim. It relied on an 
exclusion which said that the policy doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from 
elsewhere. UKI said that Mr and Mrs Hs costs are recoverable from their travel provider, 
who is obliged to offer them a refund. Mr and Mrs H werent happy with that and pursued 
their complaint. They also complain about how UKI managed their claim. They want UKI to 
pay their claim and to compensate them for their inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr and Mrs H fairly in declining the claim and recommended that UKI deal with 
their claim and pay interest. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Hs losses arent 
recoverable from elsewhere. She said that Mr and Mrs H hadnt been able to obtain a 
refund from their travel provider and as it isnt a member of a travel industry scheme, Mr 
and Mrs H have no further recourse against the travel provider.
The investigator didnt think it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis 
that Mr and Mrs H hadnt made a claim on the legal expenses part of their policy. She 
said that its not guaranteed that Mr and Mrs H will recover their losses in legal 
proceedings.
UKI didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
The travel providers terms and conditions oblige it to give Mr and Mrs H a 
refund.
The policy includes legal expenses cover which Mr and Mrs H can use to make a 
recovery where theres a dispute and which means they wont have to pay the 
excess due under the policy.
Its accepted practice to refer customers to their legal expenses cover in their 
travel policy.
It doesnt dispute that theres an insured event, but its entitled to rely on the 
exclusion.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) 
apply, so Mr and Mrs H are entitled to a refund from their travel provider.
It could refer Mr and Mrs Hs potential legal claim to an expert panel of legal 
advisers to consider the prospects of success. If it was considered that their 
claim didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, it would then be paid under 
the cancellation cover, as there would be no prospect of recovery from a third 
party.
It doesnt agree that as the travel provider isnt a member of a travel industry 
arbitration scheme, theres no further recourse, as the legal expenses element of 
the policy provides Mr and Mrs H with a similar mechanism.
If the panel solicitor appointed under the legal expenses part of the policy 
concludes that theres a valid claim, they will pursue the claim.
It doesnt agree that its not fair to expect Mr and Mrs H to take legal action as 
theres cover in the policy to facilitate the resolution of this type of dispute with no 
cost to Mr and Mrs H and with the benefit of not having to pay the excess due 
under the policy.
The use of legal expense cover is an acceptable practice, otherwise the customer 
has an element of insurance which is no benefit to them, which cant be right.
Its arrangements with panel solicitors include contractual service levels, so it 
doesnt envisage undue delay in assessing prospects of success.
The travel provider is subject to comments by the Competition and Markets 
Authority about customers and the impact of Covid-19. By effectively preventing 
insurers from relying on a standard exclusion and providing customers with the 
benefit of their legal expenses cover, insurers are being asked to fund the travel 
industry and travel providers are encouraged to refuse refunds to consumers.
The right approach is for Mr and Mrs Hs claim against their travel provider to be 
assessed for merits under the legal expenses section of cover, which is in line 
with previous decisions by this service.
Mr and Mrs H said:
Its not right to say that their travel provider is obliged to offer them a refund.
Its unreasonable to expect them to litigate the terms of their contract with the 
travel provider  they have travel insurance to avoid such litigation.
UKI has added to the delay in dealing with their claim.
They reiterated their claim for compensation for their inconvenience.
UKI asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decisionOn 7 October 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint for additional reasons than had been explained before. 
I said: 
Its common ground that an insured event happened here. UKI seeks to rely on an 
exclusion in the policy, so its for UKI to show that the exclusion is applicable and that 
it has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on it.
The central issue for me to decide is whether UKI acted within the policy terms and 
fairly and reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim on the basis of the following 
exclusion:
We wont pay for:
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
1. Recoverable costs
[]
Page 18 says:
 1. Recoverable costs
Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with the travel provider
include the following:
 G. BOOKING CONDITIONS
[]
15. FORCE MAJEURE  [the travel provider] not pay (sic) compensation where a 
major change arises from force majeure, being unusual and unforeseeable 
circumstances beyond the companys control, the consequences of which neither 
[the travel provider] nor its suppliers could avoid. These include, but are not limited 
to [] epidemic or health risks, government action or advice or Foreign Office 
advice.
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence that their travel provider has refused to 
provide a refund and Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H have taken reasonable 
steps to recover their losses. The Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 may assist Mr and Mrs H here, but their travel 
provider isnt a member of a travel industry arbitration scheme, so Mr and Mrs H 
cant try to recover their costs via that route.
UKI says that Mr and Mrs H should pursue a claim against the legal expenses part of 
their policy. Effectively, UKI says that the availability of Mr and Mrs Hs legal expenses 
cover means that their costs are recoverable elsewhere, so the exclusion applies. I 
dont agree and Ill explain why.
Theres no contractual requirement in Mr and Mrs Hs policy with UKI which requires 
them to make a claim under their legal expenses cover in the circumstances which 
arose here.I dont think its fair or reasonable for UKI to expect Mr and Mrs H to take legal action 
to recover their loss when they have paid for an insurance policy which would 
otherwise cover their claim. Thats consistent with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) guidance on Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and 
routes to refunds. That guidance says that consumers shouldnt be expected to take 
more than reasonable steps to pursue the refund and that its generally unreasonable 
to expect a consumer to go to court to recover their money. So, I dont think that its 
reasonable for UKI to expect Mr and Mrs H to recover their costs in the way it 
suggests.
Also, the outcome of a successful legal expenses claim isnt certain  Mr and Mrs H 
would need to get over the reasonable prospects of success hurdle first. Ive noted 
what UKI says about how quickly that could be considered but I dont think
Mr and Mrs H are obliged to take that step before claiming on their insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides that UKI can take legal action in Mr and Mrs Hs name 
to recover any payment it makes under the policy. So, its open to UKI to settle Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim then seek to recover its losses from the travel provider.
Ive looked at how UKI handled Mr and Mrs Hs claim. There were clearly difficulties in 
communication and some delay. Mr and Mrs H were understandably frustrated that 
their claim wasnt settled in a reasonable time. But I dont think that it would be fair or 
reasonable to award Mr and Mrs H compensation for their inconvenience. UKI were 
operating in unprecedented and extraordinary times and had unexpected demands on 
its service.
[]
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to direct UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest at 8% simple a year 
from the date of their claim to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H said that they agreed with my provisional decision. They said that they 
were sorry to learn that thered be no award for their inconvenience but were willing to 
accept that, subject to UKI paying the compensation awarded. They asked that UKI 
quantify the amount it pays. 
Mr and Mrs H agreed that it was unreasonable for UKI to expect them to pursue a claim 
against the legal expenses part of their policy and said that UKI had never mentioned 
that option to them. They told UKI that it would have subrogated rights to seek recovery 
from the travel provider itself.  
UKI said that it makes no further challenge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs H nor UKI have made any further substantive arguments I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. For the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I find that in the particular circumstances here, UKI didnt 
act fairly and reasonably in relying on the exclusion to which it has referred. Putting things right
In order to put things right, UKI should pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, minus the policy excess, plus interest at 8% simple a year, from the date of 
their claim to the date of settlement. It should set out how it has calculated the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I now require U K Insurance 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman