DRN-2568588
The complaint
Ms Z complains that Unum Ltd has declined her critical illness claim. She feels Unum has 
unfairly decided she was having ongoing medical investigations two months before the 
policy started. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said because this was a 
group policy, it wasnt unreasonable for Unum to include wider ranging exclusions in the 
terms and conditions, because it didnt have the opportunity to review Ms Zs medical 
circumstances before the policy started in July 2019. Our investigator was satisfied the GP 
referral to an ear, nose and throat (ENT) Physician in March 2019 formed part of the medical 
investigations that later led to Ms Zs cancer diagnosis for which she was claiming. 
Ms Z disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She says Unum has unfairly 
decided her investigations began when she was referred by her GP in March 2019. She 
feels the investigations didnt start until a biopsy was taken in August 2019. And she didnt 
agree that Unum could fairly apply wider exclusions to its policy because it didnt have an 
opportunity to ask questions about her medical history before the policy started. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I was sorry to read of Ms Zs cancer diagnosis and I realise this will be very 
disappointing for her. Id like to assure her that I havent taken this decision lightly. Ill explain 
why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
The exclusion Unum is relying on says;
Ongoing investigations 'No benefit will be paid for any medical condition or surgical 
procedure where the member was undergoing medical investigations within the 2 month 
period before the date of becoming a member, which led to the later diagnosis of a critical 
illness or related condition.'
I dont believe its in dispute that when the policy started Ms Z hadnt been diagnosed with 
cancer. So, I need to decide whether, on the evidence before me, Unum has acted 
reasonably in concluding that Ms Z had already started medical investigations two months 
before she became a member, and that those investigations led to her later diagnosis.   
Im satisfied the above term is clear. And because the scheme isnt underwritten, Ms Z 
wasnt required to provide details of her medical history when she joined. So, its 
understandable that Unum will include terms in the policy to consider claims for undiagnosed 
conditions that members of the scheme might already have when they join. And this service 
doesnt consider these terms to be unreasonable in policies such as this. 
Ms Z first saw her GP for a blocked nose in November 2018 and then January 2019 where 
she was prescribed a nasal spray. She then saw her GP again in March 2019 where she 
was given nasal drops and was referred to an ENT Physician with a small lesion in her left 
nostril. 
Unum says because this referral was still in place within two months of the policy starting, 
and led to the diagnosis of Ms Zs cancer, the claim was declined. Ms Z says she called her 
GP in August 2019 to get a private referral which was separate from the one her GP 
requested in March 2019. But Im afraid I dont agree. The referral Ms Z was given in 
March 2019 may have been for an NHS appointment, but she only asked for this to be 
changed in August 2019 to a private referral due to the time it was taking to be seen by the 
NHS. So, she wasnt referred for a different condition or different symptoms, rather it was the 
waiting times which made her request a private referral for the same symptoms. 
I note Ms Z feels a referral shouldnt be considered to be a medical investigation. However, 
Im satisfied the referral forms part of the medical investigations because without that 
referral, the investigation wouldnt be possible. And the reason for the investigation is 
because of the concern Ms Z and her GP shared about the symptoms she showed in 
March 2019  even if these werent urgent when the referral was made. The GP medically 
investigated her symptoms and said she had a lesion in her nose. The GP notes also 
mentioned a prescription. But because the GP couldnt investigate these concerns further at 
the surgery, it was agreed that Ms Z should be sent for further medical investigations. And 
because Ms Z was still waiting for these further medical investigations to take place when 
the policy began, and it was these investigations that later led to the cancer diagnosis she 
has claimed for, Im satisfied Unum has fairly declined her claim. 
So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Unum to apply the exclusion and decline this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman