DRN-3024443
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) Declined her claim for 
accidental damage to the ceiling of a property she owns.
Mrs G has been represented throughout this complaint by her husband. However for ease of 
reading, all references to Mrs G include the actions of her husband.  
What happened
Mrs G had flat insurance for a property she owns and rents out. In August 2020 she made a 
claim under the accidental damage cover, after the ceiling in the living room collapsed. She 
said the flat above had had carpets fitted using a nail gun and this pressure had caused the 
collapse.  
RSA asked for further information about the damage and subsequently declined the claim. It 
said the ceiling was made from lathe and plaster and these de-bond over time. So it said the 
damage was likely due to wear and tear which is excluded from cover. It said if Mrs G could 
provide a cause of damage report from an expert that disproved this, then it would 
reconsider its position.
Mrs G made a complaint, but RSA maintained the declinature. So she brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that it wouldnt reasonably expect that laying a carpet would cause the ceiling of a 
flat to collapse. So she thought it most likely that the damage was caused by wear and tear 
that had been highlighted by the carpet laying. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said she maintained the flat well and there were no signs that the 
ceiling was not in a good condition. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made Its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  
something thats covered by the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
prove a policy exclusion applies. 
Here, Mrs G has made a claim under the accidental damage cover in the policy. She says 
the damage to her ceiling was caused by the flat above fitting a carpet to a hard wood floor 
with a nail gun. 
To prove her claim she has provided photos of the damage and a quote for the repairs. 
While this shows the ceiling has been damaged, she hasnt provided any evidence to show 
the main cause of the damage. 
RSA has said that the exclusion for wear and tear would apply as it says this was the 
primary reason why the ceiling fell down and the carpet fitting just highlighted it. However it 
hasnt provided any further evidence to support this view. 
In the face of conflicting accounts, and very little evidence, I need to consider what the most 
likely cause of the damage was. 
I accept that the damage happened at a time when carpets were being laid in the flat above. 
So it seems likely that this triggered the ceiling to collapse. However I have to consider 
whether this was the main cause of the damage, or if the ceiling collapsed because it wasnt 
in a good condition already. Having done so, I think its most likely that the ceiling collapsed 
due to wear and tear. Ill explain why.
When considering the condition of the ceiling, Ive thought about what Id expect to happen if 
it were in a good condition. Ceilings are built to withstand a large amount of pressure and 
movement from the floor above. And while laying a carpet with a nail gun is more pressure 
than it would be subjected to usually, it isnt so unreasonable that Id expect the ceiling to 
collapse as a result. It therefore seems likely that the ceiling had other problems, that meant 
it was already weakened before the carpet was laid. 
To say that RSA had unfairly applied the exclusion, Id need to be satisfied that the nail gun 
was the main cause of it. But given the age and make up of the ceiling, and the fact it 
collapsed straight away, I think the main cause is likely to have been a gradual one. So I 
dont think RSA has acted unfairly by applying the exclusion here. 
RSA has said that if Mrs G were to provide an expert report on the cause of the damage that 
disputed this conclusion, then it would consider this. I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman