DRN-3433243
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim under a group 
income protection insurance policy he had the benefit of and the way in which the claim was 
handled.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr V became absent from work and was signed off by his GP with acute 
stress reaction and depression. Early in 2019, psychological trauma was included as an 
additional reason why Mr V as unbale to work on his GP certificates. 
Mr V had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer,
which can pay out a large proportion of Mr Vs salary after hed been off work for 52 weeks
(the deferred period), monthly in arrears, and will continue subject to the terms of the policy. 
Under the policy, a claim will cease for many stipulated reasons including when the 
employee in receipt of the monthly benefit ceases to be incapacitated or when the employee 
leaves the service of the policyholder/employer.
As Mr V hadnt returned to work, a claim was made on the policy towards the end of the 
deferred period. Aviva declined the claim. Based on the occupational health records it had 
obtained, Aviva concluded that Mr V had been unable to work due to work related issues. 
Mr V didnt think that was fair, so he requested Aviva review its decision to decline the claim 
based on his occupational health records alone. After reviewing further medical evidence, 
Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Further correspondence passed between the parties thereafter and Aviva issued a final 
response letter dated 7 October 2019. This set out its position that it had correctly declined 
the claim. It said the medical evidence didnt support a total absence from work because of 
illness. It also concluded that that the medical evidence didnt reflect that Mr V was 
incapacitated throughout the entirety of the deferred period. 
Unhappy, Mr V complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his
complaint. Mr V didnt agree with our investigators findings and raised several points in 
reply. Our investigator considered these and ultimately concluded that they didnt change the 
outcome hed reached.
Mr V requested an Ombudsmans decision and has provided a detailed response to the 
investigators view. So, this complaint is now with me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr V for taking the time to set out in extensive detail why he thinks 
Aviva hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled the claim made under the 
policy and, ultimately, turning it down. 
Im aware that Ive summarised his complaint in far less detail than he has, and in my own 
words. The parties have provided a considerable amount of information but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me 
to do this as we are an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. In considering whats fair and reasonable, 
I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In this case, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the financial benefit under the 
policy will be paid each month if a member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period. 
And, importantly, when making a claim, its for Mr V to demonstrate that he met the definition 
of incapacity as defined by the policy terms.
Under the policy (in conjunction with the policy schedule):
-Incapacity or Incapacitated shall mean that a Member is incapacitated, by reason of 
illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the Member is incapable of 
performing the material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not 
following any other occupation. 
-Material and substantial means duties that are normally required for and/or form a 
significant and integral part of the performance of the Members own occupation and 
which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by the Member or the employer.
Ive taken into account the job description and what Mr V has said about the demands and 
seniority of the role he had when considering material and substantial duties of the role. 
Taking into account the above definitions, Im satisfied that the focus is on whether Mr V was 
unable to perform the role he was doing because of illness (or injury) and this must have 
continued throughout the entirety of the deferred period.
And as Mr V wasnt following any other occupation during the deferred period, the crux of the 
issue I have to decide is whether Aviva fairly and reasonably concluded that he didnt meet 
the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
this issue. 
It isnt disputed that Mr V was signed off by his GP as being unable to work due to variousmedical issues during the deferred period (and subsequently). There are also occupational 
health reports during the deferred period which reflect that Mr V wasnt currently fit for work. 
They are, of course, relevant considerations here but the fact that Mr V was signed off by his 
GP and occupational health representatives advised that he wasnt fit to work isnt 
determinative.
Ive also considered that during the deferred period Mr V was diagnosed with particular 
mental health conditions, was attending regular therapy sessions and other treatments to 
help with the trauma hed experienced. The medical evidence also reflects that Mr V was 
prescribed different medication during the deferred period to assist with the low mood hed 
been reporting, and the dosages fluctuated throughout the deferred period.
But it doesnt automatically follow that Mr V was incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of his role throughout the entirety of the deferred period because of illness.
Was Mr V unable to work due to illness?
Although Mr V was diagnosed with Complex Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (Complex 
PTSD) during the deferred period he has told our service when first bringing his complaint 
that:
I was signed off sick from work by my GP on 12th June 2018 after a very long period 
of bullying and abusive behaviourswithout me having done anything wrong, from 
colleagues in my wider departmentat work. That it lasted (I had endured it) for a 
very long time, with no real help from my employer, and was perpetrated by 70-80 
people (colleagues), resulted in my psychiatric condition being exceptional [sic] 
acute.  
From what Mr V has said, and from his medical history, Im satisfied that these issues had 
been ongoing for a number of years before the start of the deferred period. 
For example, his Consultant Psychiatrist writes in June 2016 that Mr V has been having 
problems with depression for about 18 months due to the way he has been treated at work. 
At that time, he was also off sick for a period of time as he couldnt cope with how he feels 
isolated at work. It concludes that Mr V was experiencing a mild depressive disorder related 
to his treatment at his working environment. And similar issues were noted in a letter from 
his Consultant Psychiatrist dated March 2017  over a year before the deferred period. 
The totality of the medical evidence Ive seen also suggests that the health issues reported 
by Mr V during the deferred period were caused by work-related issues. And Im satisfied 
that Aviva has fairly and reasonably concluded that the evidence indicates that work was the 
main trigger for his symptoms and being unable to work. 
The occupational health reports from earlier in the deferred period support this. For example, 
the occupational health report dated July 2018 reflects that Mr V:
had to go off work about two weeks ago. He described a situation where there are 
ongoing workplace issues and that he has also raised a grievancehe can feel 
depressed, anxious and is upset by the situation at work
It goes on to say:
his return to work is likely to depend on the discussions and outcome of his 
grievance.Theres also an entry in Mr Vs GP notes dated March 2019  around three months before 
the end of the deferred period  which reflects that Mr V:
needs another [sick] note. Settlement is being agreed at present. Still being 
employed until it is resolved so needs another note this time for three months.
Although Mr V was having therapy for Complex PTSD and other treatment in connection 
with this, the GP entry also indicates that it was the work-related issues which were the 
barrier to Mr V returning to work rather than illness. 
Further, at the start of the deferred period, in June 2018, Mr Vs GP made a referral (on 
behalf of Mr V) for psychological therapies. This was a week after Mr V stopped working. 
Whats written on the referral supports that the health issues experienced by Mr V were work 
related. It says the nature of Mr Vs problems were: longstanding work stress and alleged 
bullying at work. It also states Mr V was now taking legal action against employers. 
And there are other entries in his GP records (such as the one from November 2018) 
reflecting that Mr V was anxious about the employment tribunal case he had against his 
employer. 
So, although Mr V had been signed off work by his GP, and not capable of attending his 
specific workplace for his employer, Im not persuaded that he was unable to perform the 
role he was doing more generally for the entirety of the deferred period because of illness. 
All in all, Im satisfied that the evidence supports Avivas position that the barrier to Mr Vs 
return to work during the deferred period were the work-related issues set out in his GP 
records and occupational reports. And its unlikely the underlying issues Mr V says were 
causing him to be off work sick wouldve existed if he was doing his own occupation at a 
different employer in a different environment. 
Im therefore satisfied Aviva has reasonably concluded that Mr V wasnt incapacitated as 
defined by the policy.
When making this finding, Ive taken on board Mr Vs point that Aviva has applied a policy 
exclusion to the claim which isnt set out in the policy he had the benefit of (but in a different 
version of the policy). 
The term he says has been applied is:
Absence caused by workplace matters, such as a relationship breakdown, 
workplace demands or failure to make reasonable adjustments are not covered. 
I can see why Mr V might be concerned about this. But Aviva accepts that this specific 
exclusion doesnt form part of the terms and conditions of the policy Mr V had the benefit of. 
However, I dont think Aviva has unreasonably relied on the definition of incapacity within the 
policy terms to conclude that it wasnt illness that meant Mr V was unable to work throughout 
the entirety of the deferred period  rather the underlying work-related issues. 
Was Mr V incapacitated throughout the deferred period?
Looking at the medical evidence from the deferred period, there isnt consistent and ongoing 
reference about how Mr Vs medical conditions were impacting him - and his ability to carry 
out his own occupation. Ive seen questionnaires completed by Mr Vs GP which assist in the diagnosis of depression 
(PHQ-9s) and he did score highly. However, the score generated is based on how the 
patient answers the questions put to them.
The questionnaires completed for Mr V are also dated December 2018 and January 2019, 
so around halfway through the deferred period. There is nothing similar from around the start 
of the deferred period. 
Ive also seen correspondence from Mr V dated June 2019 - around the end of the deferred 
period, and after the claim had been declined  where he sets out his symptoms as:
Very disturbed sleep
Vivid nightmares
Feeling overwhelmed by thoughts, replays and flashbacks of traumatic experiences 
which affected his concentration even on basis tasks
Being in a trance-like state
Shattered self-confidence 
Mr V has also said he was experiencing a form of agoraphobia. 
Ive cross-referred this correspondence to the employee claim form dated March 2019, Mr V 
initially completed in support of the claim. He sets out the medical conditions which he says 
are impacting his incapacity, but he doesnt include any of the above symptoms. 
Further, theres little reference to those symptoms in his GP records during the earlier part of 
the deferred period, in particular. And although there is mention of Mr V sleeping poorly, 
having some variability in concentration and intrusive thoughts in an occupational report 
dated August 2018, Mr Vs symptoms are self-reported and, as Ive mentioned above, arent 
consistently mentioned during the deferred period.
Whilst theres mention of Mr V feeling anxious in GP notes and occupational health reports, 
this seems related to work issues or the tribunal process he was going through at the time. 
There is mention of him experiencing low mood (for example a GP entry from December 
2018 and in an occupational health report from February 2019) but theres also mention of 
him having experienced low mood a week prior but now feeling better (for example, in 
November 2018).
Before then, theres also an entry from October 2018 which says Mr V had been off work for 
four months, he was feeling better on medication, there were no issues with his speech or 
eye contact - and his mood was normal. 
I accept that Mr V might not have had a need to see his GP regularly. However, it is for him 
to establish that he met the definition of being incapacitated throughout the entirety of the 
deferred period and I think whats contained in the GP records from the deferred period are 
very relevant to this issue. 
I also accept that Mr V had no control over what was written by his GP, the level of detail 
provided, and that he hadnt seen the records until after theyd been provided in relation to 
the claim made on the policy. That may the case. However, I dont think that means Aviva 
has acted unreasonably by relying on whats said in the GP notes when reaching its clams 
decision (after initially declining the claim based solely on the occupational health reports).  
Mr V has also said Aviva has acted unfairly by turning down the claim without having 
considered the GP report from around April/May 2019. Aviva says that although the GP charged a fee for this report  which it paid (along with an administration fee for the GP 
records)  it didnt actually receive this report with the computerised GP notes. Mr V is very 
concerned by this; he says Aviva had opportunities to spot this report was missing and it 
negligently failed to do so. However, Im satisfied that even if Aviva had received the GP 
report its unlikely to have impacted its decision. The GP report provides details of Mr Vs 
diagnoses, treatment and therapy. But it doesnt go into detail about the impact the various 
conditions had on Mr V. 
Mr V has told our investigator in an email dated 22 January 2022 that his trauma therapist 
hadnt produced any reports so thats why there wasnt any referred to in the GP notes. But 
he said Aviva couldve contacted his trauma therapist to obtain further information about his 
condition if it needed to. If it had done so, he says his trauma therapist couldve provided 
Aviva with a detailed list and explanation of the symptoms Mr V was experiencing. Aviva 
confirmed in an email to Mr V from November 2019 that it felt it had sufficient evidence to 
assess his claim without this and so it wasnt necessary to seek any further information. And 
I dont think that was unreasonable given the information contained in the GP records and 
occupational health reports.
Further, Mr V only started seeing this particular therapist at the end of 2018  around six 
months into the deferred period. So, I dont think the therapists observations wouldve added 
to the contemporaneous medical evidence which was available towards the earlier part of 
the deferred period  referred to above. 
Mr V has also said that Aviva failed to provide any clear guidance or indication about the 
information Mr V couldve provided to help establish he was incapacitated as defined by the 
policy. However, I dont think it was required to do so. And even if it had, for the reasons set 
out above, Im not persuaded that the medical information Mr V says Aviva couldve 
requested wouldve made any difference to its decision to decline the claim. 
Ive considered other points raised by Mr V, including that Aviva didnt obtain his GP notes 
before declining the claim; it only had occupational health records. But Im satisfied the 
occupational health records did reflect that it was the underlying work-related issues that had 
caused him to be off work. In any event when considering Mr Vs appeal, Aviva did have Mr 
Vs GP records and for the reasons set out above, and further below, I dont think it unfairly 
declined the claim. 
Nor do I think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case by not appointing an 
independent medical expert to report on Mr Vs conditions and how they impacted him 
during the deferred period. Theres no obligation (legal, regulatory or otherwise) on Aviva to 
do so once a claim is made on the policy or if its claims decision is appealed. However, there 
might be occasions where I would think it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to take 
such action. But I dont think thats the case here. Ultimately, its for Mr V to show that he 
meets the definition of incapacity as defined by the policy.
Mr V has also provided documentary evidence to show that since his employment has been 
terminated, he has been receiving certain state benefits which he has been deemed eligible 
for based on a medical assessment arranged by Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) 
in early 2020. But Ive placed less weight on this because this assessment was carried out 
over 18 months after the start of deferred period. I think the medical evidence from the 
entirety of the deferred period is more relevant to the issue of whether Mr V was 
incapacitated during that period. Further, although Mr V has been deemed as unfit to work 
based on the assessment carried out on behalf of DWP, Aviva has considered Mr Vs 
incapacity based on the policy definition, which involve different considerations, over a 
different timeframe. Mr V is also unhappy that Aviva has referred to him experiencing mild depressive disorder 
leading up to the deferred period. Hes said thats not right; he was experiencing significant 
depression. However, I dont think Aviva has unfairly summarised that hed experienced mild 
depressive disorder previously. Thats reflected in a consultant Psychiatrists letters from 
June 2016 and March 2017 and Im satisfied is factually accurate. Nor am I persuaded that 
this is indicative of Aviva unreasonably cherry-picking evidence to support its claims 
decision.
Mr V has also said that Aviva shouldve obtained legal advice about the way in which it 
interpreted the policy terms to decline the claim. Aviva was, of course, free to do so if they 
wished but I dont think its acted in any unreasonably by not taking legal advice.
I know Mr V will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt that he has been 
through a very difficult time over a number of years. But overall, the totality of the medical 
evidence doesnt support that he was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties 
of his own occupation during the entirety of the deferred period. 
I hope that it helps Mr V to know that someone impartial and independent of the parties has 
looked into his concerns.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman