DRN-3247345
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) offered following their escape of water claim under their buildings insurance. For 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr T throughout my decision.
What happened
Briefly, Mr T claimed under his buildings insurance for water damage to his ensuite, walk-in 
cupboard and bathroom. Lloyds assessed the damage under two separate claims. 
Lloyds accepted the claim for the ensuite which was caused by a leaking shower valve. The 
room had been stripped out before its visit, so Lloyds limited the settlement to the work 
which was evidently needed because it couldnt substantiate the loss. Mr T provided a quote 
for the work, but Lloyds didnt agree that the sanitaryware needed replacing. Mr T remained 
unhappy with the cash settlement Lloyds offered.
Lloyds declined Mr Ts claim for the bathroom. Its contractor reported that the damage was 
caused mainly by failed sealant and grout, which wasn't covered under the policy.
Mr T complained to Lloyds. He said:
the settlement for the ensuite was too low;
the bathroom shouldve been covered under the same claim, and
Lloyds delayed handling the claim.
Lloyds offered Mr T £100 compensation for the delays in progressing the claim, but it didnt 
increase its cash settlement offer or accept the bathroom claim.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had made a reasonable offer in line with the policy. She said 
the evidence supported Lloyds position and couldnt see any reason to ask it to increase its 
settlement offer or the compensation.
Mr T didnt agree. He still thought the two claims had the same cause and should, therefore, 
both be covered under the policy. He also thought Lloyds should increase the cash 
settlement to cover the cost of sanitaryware which was damaged when it was removed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr T had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The overriding issue is that Mr T doesnt think Lloyds cash settlement offer was enough to 
cover his claim.
Cash settlement
Firstly, Ill explain that Mr T preferred to have a cash settlement for his claim rather than 
allow Lloyds to do the work. The cost to Lloyds is likely to be lower than the cost to Mr T 
because of preferential rates it may be able to obtain. But as that was Mr Ts preference, I 
see no reason why Lloyds should incur the higher costs of Mr Ts preferred contractor. 
Therefore, Id expect Lloyds to offer a cash settlement in line with what it wouldve cost it to 
do the work using its own suppliers.
Moving on, I see the policy provides cover for:
1. Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed domestic water 
installation.
Im satisfied that Lloyds correctly appointed a surveyor to assess the damage under the 
policy terms and conditions, so Ill look at each part of the claim in turn.
Ensuite
The ensuite had been ripped out and disposed of when Lloyds surveyor attended, meaning 
there was little evidence available to support Mr Ts claim. However, the surveyor prepared a 
schedule of work based on the visible evidence that the shower mixer had leaked, causing 
the damage. The surveyor couldnt see any reason why the sanitaryware wouldve been 
damaged by the leak or why it was disposed of. Based on the surveyors findings, Lloyds 
offered Mr T a cash settlement to cover what it considered to be the necessary work, which 
excluded any sanitaryware costs. 
Ive looked at the photos and the account of events. I understand the shower tray was 
damaged and wouldve needed replacing, but that isnt shown in the photos. I have no 
reason to doubt what Mr T says, but I cant reasonably say that Lloyds should cover the cost 
without having any evidence. Under the heading, How to Claim, the policy says:
Go ahead with any urgent repairs to prevent further damage  like fixing a forced lock or 
broken window  but give us a call before you repair anything else.
Keep any damaged goods as we may need to see them...
Lloyds also confirmed this information to Mr T in his claim call. 
As Mr Ts ensuite had been stripped out and the sanitaryware disposed of, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds reasonably said, in line with the policy, it wouldnt cover the cost of any damage 
which wasnt evidenced. I see no reason to ask Lloyds to increase the cash settlement offer.Bathroom
Lloyds surveyor reported that the water damage in the bathroom was consistent with that 
caused by failed sealant and grout. Because of that, Lloyds declined Mr Ts claim for repairs 
to his bathroom. Mr T says the cause was the leaking shower mixer. 
Looking at the photos of the damage, I can see why the surveyor concluded that the damage 
was caused by failed sealant. Most of the damage is where the shower tray wouldve been 
fixed to the wall and down to the floor beneath, suggesting water was running between the 
shower tray and the wall. It appears that the shower mixer also leaked, but most of the 
damage is consistent with that usually seen with failed sealant. Turning to the policy, I see it 
doesnt cover:
The cost of repairing the fixed water domestic water installation itself.
Damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/ or grout.
This is also confirmed in the policy General exclusions:
You are not insured against the costs of maintenance, or the costs of any damage 
caused by inadequate maintenance. Examples include, but are not limited to:
- water damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/or grout.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds declined Mr Ts claim for repairs to his bathroom in line 
with the exclusions set out in the policy. I see no reason to ask Lloyds to do any more in 
respect of this issue.
Compensation
When Mr T complained to Lloyds, it accepted that it hadnt handled his claim as well as it 
couldve done. By way of apology, it offered him £100 compensation.
Ive looked at the timeline of events and Ive noted some instances when Lloyds didnt 
progress Mr Ts claim as quickly as it couldve done. However, I also noted that there were 
delays when it was waiting for Mr T to provide information. That said, it was several months 
before Lloyds made its cash settlement offer to Mr T and I agree that compensation is 
warranted. Having thought carefully about this, Lloyds offer is in line with what Id have 
awarded in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to increase its offer.
Overall, its unfortunate that Mr T couldnt provide more evidence to support his claim and 
that work was undertaken before Lloyds could assess the damage. But, in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it made a cash settlement offer in line with the policy. I wont 
be asking Lloyds to do any more than it has already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman