DRN-3450870
The complaint
Mr B, acting on behalf of his business U complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt provided 
the information it should have in response to his data subject access request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr B contacted Lloyds in 2020 on behalf of his company, U, to raise a DSAR in regard to his 
business account. He wanted to be provided with details of all busines loans and overdrafts 
linked with his business account between certain dates that had payment protection 
insurance (PPI). He says he has been requesting this information since 2018.
Lloyds says that Mr B contacted it in 2020 to raise a DSAR on his business account. It wrote 
to him in June to explain that limited companies are not covered by the right of access to 
information under the terms of the Data Protection Act. It said that Mr B should contact his 
usual bank contact or relationship manager who might be able to provide the information 
required. 
Lloyds issued a final response letter in October 2021 where it upheld Mr Bs complaint. It 
noted that Mr B had previously requested loan statements in 2019 and August 2018 and that 
action hadnt been taken. It said Mr B hadnt received the service he should have and it paid 
him £50 compensation because of this. It noted that while DSARs didnt apply to limited 
companies, directors, shareholders or guarantors of a Limited company can request a DSAR 
and receive any personal data held about them within its Limited Company records. 
Our investigator said his view related to Mr Bs complaint about Lloyds response to the May 
2020 DSAR. He said that Lloyds responded to Mr B explaining that DSARs dont apply to 
limited companies and that Mr B could make a DSAR for any personal data held about him 
within the limited company. He confirmed this was accurate and because of this Lloyds 
wasnt required to provide the DSAR information Mr B had requested. However, Lloyds had 
voluntarily provided the information it had available which our investigator thought was 
reasonable. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He didnt think his questions had been 
answered and requested the information be provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted all the points Mr B has raised in regard to his information requests and PPI. 
However, as our investigator noted, this decision is about Mr Bs complaint that Lloyds didnt 
provide the information he requested in his May 2020 DSAR. 
I can understand why Mr B is upset as he thinks Lloyds should have done more to assist 
him, on behalf of his business, and should have provided him with further details of loans 
and overdrafts linked to his business account. However, for me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that Lloyds had done something wrong.
Mr B raised a DSAR on behalf of his company. As Lloyds has explained, a DSAR is 
something an individual can make under relevant legislations and regulations. But this 
particular right of access applies to individuals rather than entities like limited companies. 
So, Lloyds wasnt formally required to act on the DSAR. 
But U is still Lloyds customer and so it would still have been fair for Lloyds to see what it 
could do to help U, or to signpost it correctly in terms of what else it could do. Lloyds did that 
when it informed Mr B about DSARs not being applicable for limited companies and then 
explained that Mr B could, as a director raise a DSAR to receive any information Lloyds held 
about him. I think this was reasonable. 
While Lloyds wasnt required to act under the DSAR, it said that it provided the information it 
had in regard to Mr Bs company. Mr B has confirmed he has received information on the 
business account he originally noted but says he hasnt received anything in regard to loans 
and overdrafts linked to this account. He has also noted he has received statements for a 
loan taken out in 2003 but believes there were other loans taken out before this date that 
had PPI. 
I appreciate that Mr B wants more information, specifically about loans and overdrafts linked 
to his business account that may have had PPI. But Lloyds has explained that it only has 
limited records because of the time thats passed since the relevant dates Mr B has 
requested information about. So even though Lloyds is under no duty to respond to a DSAR 
from U, I think its done what it can here to help it as a customer. 
I appreciate Mr Bs comments about not receiving information 2018 and Lloyds did 
acknowledge that it hadnt provided the service it should have and paid compensation for 
this. However, this decision is about Mr Bs May 2020 DSAR on behalf of his limited 
company and I do not find that Lloyds has done anything wrong in the action it has taken. 
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman