DRN-3311382
The complaint
Miss C complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on high interest loans she 
was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Miss C was provided with the following loans by AvantCredit:
Amount of 
loanTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
repayableDate repaid
Loan 1 03/01/2016 £5,400 36
months£288.56 £10,383 14/06/2016
Loan 2 14/06/2016 £11,500 48
months£445.17 £21,368 Outstanding 
loan sold on 
Miss C says the loans were unaffordable to her, and she had to borrow money in order to 
pay them. She paid off the first loan by borrowing. She fell into arrears with the second loan 
and has been struggling to keep up with the repayments ever since. She was unable to pay 
most of the payments on the loan from about July 2017. The debt has since been sold on.
For both loans, AvantCredit carried out affordability checks, including obtaining a credit 
report and details from Miss Cs application form, and, for the first loan obtaining a recent 
bank statement. AvantCredit says it verified her income for both applications.
Our adjudicator said that AvantCredit didnt make a fair lending decision in respect of ether 
loan. For loan 1, she pointed out that Miss Cs credit commitments already exceeded her 
income so it was unaffordable. For loan 2 she said it would have been clear that Miss C was 
having problems managing her money. As well as having a number of loans and credit card 
debts, she had borrowed money from her partner and other family members. She thought 
that in respect of both loans AvantCredit hadnt made fair lending decisions.
AvantCredit disagreed, it said that both loans were for debt consolidation, so after repaying 
various debts the loans would have been affordable.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss C would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Miss C had a low income, and the loans were for a high amount and required a considerable 
commitment from Miss C. So AvantCredit should have carried out a thorough assessment of 
Miss Cs financial circumstances at the time of the application.
loan 1
In respect of this loan Miss Cs income was assessed at around £2,000 a month. Her credit 
commitments, as set out in AvantCredits records were around £2,404 and this didnt take 
account of some credit card debts. The loan was plainly unaffordable.
AvantCredit says the loan was intended to be a consolidation loan, designed to pay off a 
number of Miss Cs debts. I think in light of the fact that her income was less than her credit 
commitments it would have been essential to make sure the loans were paid off. But 
AvantCredit hasnt shown in its records that the loan was used for paying off specific loans. It could have stipulated that in order to borrow the money, the loans had to be paid off e.g. by 
paying the loan companies out of the loan before providing any money to Miss C. It didnt do 
that and I think as a result the loan was unaffordable to Miss C. 
Even if the existing loans AvantCredit mentioned to us had been paid off it estimated that 
Miss C would still have been paying about 45% of her income on credit commitments, a very 
high figure, which would have made any further credit unsustainable..
I think AvantCredit made proportionate checks for this loan but on the basis of those checks 
it didnt make a fair lending decision.
loan 2
Miss C had paid off the first loan by taking out a loan with another company. AvantCredit 
said it did the same checks as before, although as far as I can see this time it didnt obtain a 
bank statement from Miss C. It said it had verified her income at over £3,500 a month. After 
paying off loans it said that it assessed that this loan was affordable.
I dont think AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks here. Whilst I cant say what 
further checks it should have carried out, its clear to me that here it was presented with a 
customer who had been very seriously in debt before taking out the first loan. It should have 
carried out a thorough assessment particularly to see why she still had a large number of 
loans and credit card debts outstanding. 
Miss C has shown us her bank statements for the period around this loan. They show that 
she was paying around £1,089 a month to loan/credit card companies. But she was also 
borrowing money from her then partner (who had taken out an £11,000 loan for her) and 
borrowed from other family members. Whilst AvantCredit asserts that her income was 
around £3,300 a month, I calculate that her maximum income, which did fluctuate, was 
around £2,600. I dont think the loan was affordable.
Again if AvantCredit expected Miss C to pay off loans, it should have ensured she did so, 
and Ive seen no evidence that it did.
As AvantCredit didnt carry out proportionate checks I dont think it made a fair lending 
decision. 
Putting things right
Miss C has had the capital payment in respect of both loans, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned I think AvantCredit should refund all interest 
and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to both loans.
Treat any payments made by Miss C as payments towards the capital amounts of 
respectively £5,400 and £11,500.
If Miss C has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss C.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Miss Cs credit file.As AvantCredit sold the outstanding debt on loan 2 to a third-party it should do what it 
can to buy it back - if it cant then it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the 
redress and it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman