DRN-3444985
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line mishandled his claim on a 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Direct Line, I include engineers and others insofar as I hold Direct Line 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car made in about 2010 
with left-hand drive.
In 2019, Mr S imported the vehicle into the UK. To make it legal to drive on UK roads, he 
says he had to adapt the vehicle, including its lights and tachometer at a cost of £1,215.00.
For the year from late June 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Direct Line.
Unfortunately, in July 2021, the car suffered damage and Direct Line said it was a total loss.
Direct Line told Mr S that its pre-accident valuation of the car was £4,520.00. He complained 
to Direct Line that it wasnt enough. By a final response dated early August 2021, Direct Line 
declined to increase its valuation. Mr S brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that  
Direct Line had unfairly valued the vehicle.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The investigators arguments are irrational, not built on legal foundations, arbitrary 
and biased.
There are some blatant lies by Direct Line. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In most cases, the Financial Ombudsman Service expects a motor insurer to pay up to the 
pre-accident market value of the vehicle (less the policy excess). We dont expect an 
insurers policy terms to give details of how it will assess market value.
Whatever the policy terms say, we expect a motor insurer to assess pre-accident market 
value using the retail figures in the trade guides. Im satisfied that the guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. Im satisfied that they take into account 
most aspects of supply and demand, including make, model, specification, age, mileage and  
condition.
I accept that Mr S spent about £1,215.00 to adapt the vehicle for use on UK roads. But the 
figures stated in the trade guides are for a vehicle that is ready for use on UK roads. So I 
dont accept that Mr Ss expenditure increased the value of his vehicle beyond the figures 
stated in the trade guides.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and good condition of Mr Ss car. For 
a car like his, the nearest match in the trade guides is in the CAP guide. That states a retail 
price of £2,725.00 in July 2021. Direct Line has said that it would add £400.00 for a tow bar. 
I calculate that the addition of the tow bar would give a total valuation of £3,125.00.
A near match in the trade guides is in the Glasses guide. That isnt for a 2010 model but for 
a 2011 model (that I would expect to be of a higher valuation because its newer). That 
states a retail price of £2,950.00 in July 2021. Again, Direct Line has said that it would add 
£400.00 for a tow bar. I calculate that the addition of the towbar would give a total valuation 
of £3,350.00.
Both guides relate to a right-hand drive vehicle, which is what most consumers demand in 
the UK. I wouldnt have found it unfair for Direct Line to have made a deduction of up to 10% 
for the fact that Mr Ss vehicle was left-hand drive and so less in demand. So I wouldnt have 
found it unfair if Direct Line had given a valuation of £3,125.00 less up to 10%, that is a 
valuation of under £3,000.00.
Whatever Direct Line intended or said to Mr S, its final valuation of £4,520.00 wasnt based 
on a deduction for left-hand drive. From the trade guide figures Ive seen, I conclude that 
Direct Line made a mistake in Mr Ss favour. Realising that mistake, Direct Line has said to 
us that it will honour that valuation.
So I dont consider that the valuation of £4,520.00 treated Mr S unfairly. And I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Direct Line to increase that valuation or to do any more in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman