DRN-1596095
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out two further advances on their mortgage, one in 2000 and another in 
2001. They took out a PPI policy to cover each loan. Mr and Mrs M paid for the two policies 
with regular monthly premiums, which didnt attract interest. They covered their repayments 
in case Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Having done that, I have not found that these two policies were mis-sold  Ill explain why.
In both sales, Mr and Mrs M were offered the choice to take out PPI or turn it down, with a 
Yes and No box to choose from. On both occasions, the Yes box was chosen, the No 
box was left blank, and Mr and Mrs M signed their agreement to confirm their choices. The 
PPIs cost was set out separately to the loans cost  it was not part and parcel of the loan. 
And Mr and Mrs M had already had a mortgage and further advances from Bank of Scotland 
without PPI, so they wouldve known they didnt have to choose PPI to get their secured 
borrowing. Ive not seen any wider problems with Bank of Scotlands sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence that shows it misled Mr and Mrs M into having PPI. So I think its 
most likely that Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs M aware they had a choice about buying 
PPI, and that they chose to take it on each occasion  though I can understand if they no 
longer recall doing so after so long.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policies for Mr M, so it had to check they were right for 
him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the policies and wasnt affected by any of their 
main exclusions or limitations.
The policies covered Mr M for much longer than his work benefits wouldve lasted, and 
wouldve paid out on top of those benefits. He doesnt appear to have had any savings or 
alternative insurance. And while I understand Mr and Mrs Ms family may have been willing 
to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. These loans 
were secured against Mr and Mrs Ms property, and if theyd fallen behind on the repayments they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost of each policy was set out clearly, along with what it was covering. So I think 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for each policy if they 
chose it. 
Lastly, its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt point out all the main things the policies 
wouldnt cover. But as I explained above, Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman