DRN-2278371
The complaint
Mr B says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan for £1500 with Black Horse in December 2005. At the same time, it sold 
him a PPI policy which protected his loan repayments if he was unable to work. Mr B 
borrowed extra money to pay for the PPI in advance. The policy cost around £307 and this 
amount was added to the loan and attracted interest.
The loan was set up to be repaid over 36 months. The policy offered 24 months accident 
and sickness cover and also couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event Mr B lost his 
job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator. He mainly complained that the PPI wasnt properly 
explained to him. 
So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not clear exactly how Mr B arranged this loan and the PPI  Black Horse and Mr B have 
said different things about this. But it doesnt make any overall difference to this complaint 
whether the loan was arranged in a face to face meeting or over the phone because Ive 
seen paperwork that Mr B completed when this loan and the PPI was set up.
Black Horse has provided a copy of a Demands & Needs Questionnaire & Statement that it 
looks like Mr B completed with the help of an advisor. This appears to record his answers to 
a number of questions which resulted in Black Horses personal recommendation that life, 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment cover was suitable for his needs. The 
form is ticked to show that Mr B apparently accepted this recommendation and hes signed 
the completed form.
Mr Bs loan agreement describes the PPI as Optional Payment Protection Plan. And theres 
a separate section for PPI where theres a tick box in that section for Mr B to say if he 
wished to buy PPI. On Mr Bs loan agreement this box is ticked and he has also signed in 
this section.
And Mr B also signed the completed agreement which suggests to me that the information 
on the form reflected his wishes at the time.  
So although I dont know exactly how the PPI was presented or explained to Mr B, I think 
that Mr B was made aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted to have PPI and it was 
added to his loan account at his request.
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Looking at what Mr B has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think that PPI was a 
suitable recommendation for him. 
Mr B said he couldnt rely on his employer to pay him sick pay and he didnt have any other 
ways to pay the loan if he wasnt able to work. The policy couldve covered his loan monthly 
repayments and having the policy in place meant that the benefits it offered were guaranteed 
if Mr B made a successful claim. So the policy could have provided a useful benefit at what 
would have been a difficult time.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But as Mr B was in good health and full-time 
employment when he signed up to the PPI it doesnt look like any of the policy exclusions or 
limitations wouldve affected him. 
So even if the policy wasnt explained as clearly as it shouldve been, I dont think its likely 
that having clearer information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve stopped Mr B 
taking it out.
If Mr B settled the loan early, he wouldnt have got a proportionate refund of the premium. 
But I havent seen anything to make me think it was likely that Mr B intended to pay the loan 
off early when he took it out. So I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for him on that basis.
The loan agreement he signed sets out details of the loan and PPI costs separately, 
including the interest hed be charged on the PPI part of the loan. So Mr B wouldve been 
able to see the overall cost and it seems likely to me that he wouldve understood what he 
was paying.
Its possible the information Black Horse gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But he chose to take out PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr B off taking out the cover. 
I think, on balance, that he would still have taken out the policy. 
So Im not upholding his mis-sale complaint. 
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Black Horse didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Black Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman