DRN-2527746
The complaint
 Mr W complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
unreasonably delayed the payment of his mortgage endowment policy proceeds upon 
maturity. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In essence, Mr W says that Sun Life unreasonably refused the letters of no 
interest (LNI) sent to it by Bank of Ireland, which were required in order to release the funds 
directly to Mr W upon the maturity of his mortgage endowment policy. 
The policy matured on 1 March 2020, at which point Mr W was expecting to receive the 
funds to pay off the remaining mortgage capital. However, the funds were not released by 
Sun Life and received by him until 6 July 2020  meaning he was not in a position to pay off 
the remaining capital and had to continue making mortgage payments throughout April, May, 
June and July 2020. He says that Sun Life should reimburse these payments because he 
wouldnt have had to make them if it had accepted Bank of Irelands LNI in February 2020 
and paid the policy proceeds upon maturity.
Sun Life said that it didnt receive a valid LNI from Bank of Ireland until 29 June 2020. It said 
that all the LNIs sent prior to that (including those in February 2020) either referenced an 
incorrect mortgage account number or contained unacceptable wording. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that Sun Life had received a valid 
LNI on 27 February 2020, such that it could have paid the funds to Mr W in March 2020. He 
therefore considered that it should refund the mortgage payments made by Mr W from April 
to July 2020. The investigator also awarded £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delays and Sun Lifes handling of the matter. Sun Life disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
Bank of Ireland initially sent a LNI on 13 February 2020. It set out the policy number, a 
mortgage account number, and set out the following wording:
We hereby given notice that the policy(ies) referred to above have been released 
and that we have no further interest therein.
Our agreement to release the policy/ies is based on the information we have been 
provided with and which we have not separately verified as correct. If any of the 
information we have received subsequently proves to be incorrect we reserve the 
right to review our decision to agree to the release of the policy/ies. 
Sun Life wrote to Bank of Ireland on 19 February 2020 explaining that the LNI it received 
dated 13 February 2020 could not be accepted as it referenced a mortgage account number 
that did not match its records. It said that the bank would need to reference the correct 
account number for the LNI to be accepted, but did not mention anything about the wording 
of the LNI being unacceptable at that point.
Bank of Ireland have explained that it updated its account reference numbers in the past and 
had included the new mortgage account reference in its first LNI. So it subsequently sent 
another LNI on the 27 February 2020 with the original mortgage account number, policy 
number, and the same wording as its prior LNI. This time, despite it conforming with Sun 
Lifes instructions of 19 February 2020, it said it couldnt accept the letter due to the wording 
used, as the bank had said its declaration of no interest was based on the information it had 
been provided and which had not been separately verified as correct. 
Sun Life wrote to Bank of Ireland explaining that the LNI must state that there is no interest 
in the polices alone and not based on any other criteria. Bank of Ireland said that the 
wording used in its LNI was standard and accepted by all other policy providers. 
After further correspondence between the two parties, Sun Life said it eventually received an 
acceptable LNI on 29 June 2020. This letter contained no mortgage account number, which 
was why Sun Life say it was eventually accepted. It said that all previous LNIs received 
quoted an account number that did not match its records for the mortgage assignment. But 
from what I have seen, that is not correct.
I can see that the mortgage account number quoted on the letter of 27 February 2020 did 
indeed match the account number Sun Life had quoted in its letter to Mr W on 7 November 
2019 (ending 2924)  which also matches the original notice of assignment of July 1996. 
Sun Life said in its letter of 19 February 2020 that if Bank of Ireland were going to quote the 
mortgage account number in the LNI, then it had to match its records. Bank of Ireland 
complied with this instruction in its LNI of 27 February 2020 when it provided the correct 
reference, so it should have been accepted. 
Sun Life say it was then the wording used that was unacceptable. But the same wording had 
been used by Bank of Ireland in all of its LNIs  including the letter of 8 June 2020 that was 
deemed acceptable by Sun Life. So it doesnt appear that the wording made any difference if 
it was enough to be accepted in June 2020. And given that the LNI of 27 February used the 
same wording (which clearly stated that the bank had no interest in the policy) and quoted 
the correct mortgage account number, policy number and name of the assured  I think Sun 
Life ought reasonably to have accepted this as a valid LNI in line with the instructions it gave 
Bank of Ireland on 19 February 2020.
Had Sun Life accepted the 27 February LNI as I think it reasonably ought to have done, its 
likely Mr W would have received the policy proceeds shortly after the maturity date, which 
would have allowed him to pay off the remaining capital of his mortgage in March 2020 so as 
to avoid any further repayments. Instead, the delay meant that he had to make the following 
payments:
1 April 2020: Mortgage payment of £201.27
1 May 2020: Mortgage payment of £197.99
1 June 2020: Mortgage payment of £197.991 July 2020: Mortgage payment of £197.99
Total: £795.24
I therefore consider it would be fair and reasonable for Sun Life to reimburse the amount of 
these payments (upon submission of reasonable proof  such as mortgage statements  of 
the above amounts being paid towards the mortgage that was eventually redeemed with the 
policy proceeds) as these mortgage payments could have likely been avoided if it had 
accepted the LNI of 27 February 2020.
I also think that an award of compensation is appropriate in these circumstances, as Im 
satisfied that the uncertainty and anxiety caused by the avoidable delay in payment of the 
policy proceeds likely caused Mr W trouble and upset. The investigator recommended an 
amount of £100, which I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to:
Reimburse the mortgage payments made by Mr W from 1 April 2020 to 1 July 2020 
upon submission of reasonable proof of the payments being made towards the 
mortgage that was eventually redeemed with the policy proceeds;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the mortgage payments made by Mr W from 
1 April 2020 to 1 July 2020, from the date the payments were made to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman