DRN-2859208
The complaint
Mr D complains Aviva Insurance Limited started a claim on his car insurance policy, and 
repaired his car, without his consent. Hes also unhappy about how Aviva communicated 
with him.
What happened
Following an accident in which his car was damaged, Mr D told Aviva hed want to know the 
likely repair costs before deciding whether or not to claim on his car insurance. Aviva said  
Mr D could start a claim and then contact it again if he didnt want to carry on. Mr D agreed 
to this. 
Mr D says he expected Avivas approved repairer to contact him to discuss the costs. But it 
wasnt until after the repairs had been done that Mr D found out what these were. 
When Mr D complained to Aviva about this, it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr D brought 
his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ds complaint didnt uphold it. She didnt think Aviva had 
done anything wrong in proceeding with the claim as it had or in how it had handled its 
communications with Mr D. 
Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. To explain why, Ill describe 
briefly the phone calls and text messages Ive seen from the time. 
In Mr Ds first call with Aviva, he says he wants to know what the repair costs will be before 
deciding whether or not to claim. The call handler asks if Mr D is going to get a quote for the 
repairs himself and call back if its too much. Mr D says hes got no idea what the process is. 
The call handler tells Mr D clearly the steps involved if he decides to make a claim. A claim 
isnt started in this call. 
In Mr Ds second call with Aviva (which takes place on the same day as the first), Mr D 
discusses with the call handler whether or not to start a claim. The call handler says Mr D 
can start one and call back if he decides he doesnt want to carry on. From this call, I think 
its clear Mr D needs to call Aviva back if he doesnt want to carry on with the claim.
Mr D didnt call Aviva back. He says this is because he never got a call he was promised 
from the approved repairer to discuss the cost of the repairs. Without this, he says he 
couldnt decide whether or not to go ahead with the claim.
From the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr D was promised a call from the approved 
repairer. What he got was a text message from Avivas fulfilment team about someone 
contacting him to discuss the damage to his car and the next steps. And he also got another 
text message from Aviva with the contact details of the approved repairer.
Mr D did have a third call with Aviva on that same day. In this call, Avivas repairer (and not 
its approved repairer) discusses with him the damage and the next steps, including 
arranging to collect the car for repairs. Mr D says nothing about being undecided about 
whether or not to claim. And its clear the engineer hes speaking to thinks Mr D is making a 
claim. For example, he says Mr Ds excess will be payable once the repairs are done (and 
Mr D agrees to this).
A week after his car had been taken in for repair, Mr D is called by the approved repairer to 
arrange its return and the payment of his excess. Mr D asks the call handler how much the 
repairs have cost. When she tells him, Mr D says hell be making a claim.
I understand the car insurance claims process is new to Mr D and may have been confusing. 
But I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here. Aviva told Mr D clearly when he 
started the claim that he needed to call back if he wanted to stop it. He didnt do that, and 
thats why the claim proceeded. 
I think the promised call Mr D says he was waiting for before making his decision on 
whether or not to claim was actually the standard text message Aviva sent him saying it 
would be in touch to discuss the damage and next steps. I think this text message was likely 
to have been sent by Aviva because Mr D had started the process of making a claim  and 
not because Mr D had told a call handler hed want to know the costs before deciding. And 
Aviva did get in touch about the things in the text message. 
So none of what followed after Mr D had agreed to start a claim changes my conclusion that 
Mr D needed to tell Aviva if he didnt want to carry on, this ought to have been reasonably 
clear to him, but he didnt do it.
I should also say Mr D agreed to his car being taken in for repairs. And it stayed in the 
approved repairers garage for around a week. I think it ought to have been reasonably clear 
to him that the repairs were being done and, since he hadnt stopped it, his claim was 
continuing. 
Mr D is unhappy with Avivas communications with him, including after he made his 
complaint. There were times when Mr D didnt get an immediate response from Aviva. But, 
from what Ive seen, I dont think there were unreasonable delays by Aviva in its dealings 
with Mr D.
Finally, Mr D has also questioned the necessity of some of the repairs to his car. But he 
hasnt given us any expert information to show any of them werent necessary. I can see 
Aviva has relied on its approved repairers report detailing the repairs that were needed  
and Ive looked at that report. Ive seen nothing to make me think it was unfair or 
unreasonable of Aviva to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman