DRN-3890095
The complaint
Mr A says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (who Ill refer to simply as 
Tesco) were unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
As Mr A paid for the car using his credit card it was possible to process a section 75 claim. 
This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any 
negotiations between Mr A and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the 
supplier as an agent of Tesco. This includes any representations made by the supplier and 
any other dealings between them. 
Mr A says the car was misrepresented to him. If Mr A was provided with a false statement of 
fact and if that false statement was a significant issue in persuading Mr A to enter into the 
deal then Id think the deal had been misrepresented to him
Im not persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation here. The car was advertised 
with a service history and not a full service history.
Mr A says that the car should have had the timing belt changed at 5 years and hes provided 
some evidence that was the case, although I can see the dealership have also suggested 
there was only a requirement to check the belt, and not to replace it until the car had 
completed 133,000 miles.
Mr A bought the car when it was about 5 years and 5 months old. If the car had been fully 
serviced and Mr As assertion that the belt should have been replaced at five years is 
correct, then the belt would then have needed to be replaced otherwise there would have 
been a misrepresentation.
But the car wasnt supplied with a full service record and in those circumstances I dont think 
Mr A was provided with a false statement of fact and I dont therefore think Tesco have been 
unreasonable when rejecting his section 75 claim.
Mr A may also suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and that 
would be another reason why Tesco may have considered upholding his section 75 claim. 
But I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality. It was clearly roadworthy as it had 
passed an MOT despite its incomplete service history. The brakes were 60% worn but that 
didnt make them of unsatisfactory quality as they are a wear and tear item, and they were 
still in a roadworthy condition when supplied as demonstrated by the MOT.
There were other issues with the car but as the supplier had offered to put those issues right 
I think theyd done what was required of them under the relevant legislation  that is, in the 
first instance, to repair issues present at the point of supply. 
So, I dont think Tesco have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any 
additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman