DRN-3028369
The complaint
This complaint is about an Mrs and Mr B made to transfer the lifetime mortgage they held 
with Just Retirement Limited to a new property. JRL turned down their application, quite late 
in the process, resulting in the mortgage being repaid, and an early repayment charge (ERC) 
being levied. Mrs and Mr B says Just treated them unfairly and should refund the ERC, the 
survey fee they paid and reimburse them for lost income on investments they had to cash in 
to complete the purchase.
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Just didnt have a contractual obligation to transfer Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage to another 
property. The starting point here is that no one is entitled to borrow money and lenders arent 
obliged to lend it, even where theyve lent before. Thats apparent from the mortgage offer, 
which explains that any proposal to do would be dependent on:
the application meeting Justs lending criteria at the relevant time; and
the proposed new property being acceptable security.
I dont know how much of the original offer Mrs and Mr B assimilated, but Just set the terms 
of the offer out in a manner that met the requirements of the regulator.
Any request to borrow again, or transfer an existing mortgage to a different property, is a 
new lending decision for a lender, and is subject to its lending policy and criteria  and the 
consumers individual circumstances - as they stand at the time the request is made. 
Also, mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; theres no set timetable for how long it 
can take for a lender to reach a position where it has all the information it needs to make a 
lending decision. Lenders can, but arent obliged to, make their lending policy known to the 
public at large. They can if they wish regard the policy as commercially sensitive. 
In Mr and Mrs Bs case, Just concluded that the property they were proposing to buy wasnt 
acceptable security. Im mindful of what Mr and Mrs B have said about the research they did 
and the question they asked of Just before embarking on the property search. But its not 
possible for a lender to foresee every factor or problem that might arise. 
The detailed assessment of a propertys suitability as security for a mortgage can only begin 
in earnest once the application is in progress and solicitors for both sides commence their 
searches. As I understand it, the acceptability or otherwise of Mr and Mrs Bs property turned 
on a technical point that only came fully to light quite late in the day. Thats regrettable, and 
no doubt a source of genuine frustration and upset for Mr and Mrs B. But its not down to 
anything Just did or failed to do. The timing was unfortunate, but not negligent; and because 
of that, Justs decision not to lend wasnt unfair; nor was it unfairly reached.
Ive no regulatory function; its not my role to decide what Justs lending policy (or any 
lenders for that matter) on acceptable properties should be. If Just is reluctant to lend on a 
property with the tenure that applied here, thats a matter for its commercial judgement. But it 
should apply that policy fairly, and here Im satisfied it did. The fact that Mr and Mrs B have 
since been able to obtain a mortgage elsewhere doesnt change that. Each lender will have 
its own appetite for risk and set its lending policy accordingly.
With Just having decided, legitimately, not to lend, Mr and Mrs B were faced with a choice 
between two unwelcome alternatives; abort the sale and purchase or continue with the 
transaction knowing they would have to repay the existing mortgage, incur an ERC and use 
their other financial resources instead. They went with the latter, and that, of course, was 
their prerogative. But whilst I imply no criticism whatsoever of the decision Mr and Mrs B 
made, it was their choice, and they made it knowing what the consequences would be.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman