DRN-1785780
The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Insurance Ltd unfairly declined a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the service he received. 
Mr N is represented by a solicitor in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
Mr N held a home insurance policy which was underwritten by Aviva. The policy commenced 
on 29 September 2017 for a period of 12 months. And it included cover for theft of 
unspecified personal belongings away from home up to a value of £15000 together with 
cover for specified high value items of jewellery.
On 19 January 2018 Mr N said he was returning home with his family when he was violently 
assaulted at the rear of his property while emptying his vehicle. Mr N said he was pushed 
against a wall. And in addition to Mr N sustaining injuries a number of high value jewellery 
items and £300 in cash were stolen from a bag he was carrying. 
Mr N reported what had happened to the police and he told Aviva he wanted to claim for the 
items that had been stolen. He said he didnt see where the individual who attacked him 
came from or where he made his escape. And he provided CCTV footage covering various 
parts of his property. However, images of the assailant and theft werent captured by the 
cameras installed at Mr Ns property.
As the value of the stolen items was significant Aviva instructed a loss adjuster, who Ill refer 
to as S in this decision to assist it in managing Mr Ns claim. S was instructed on 20 
January 2018 and attended Mr Ns property on 29 January 2018 in order to take 
photographs, discuss what had happened and outline the next steps. 
S recorded that Mr N was co-operative during their meeting and severely distressed by the 
events that had taken place. S mentioned Mr N had disclosed a previous theft incident 
during 2016 which he hadnt claimed for due to being uninsured at the time. S also 
commented on a language barrier between it and Mr N. 
On 21 February 2018 S applied for a crime report from the police. On 8 June 2018 the police 
contacted S to explain that the CCTV footage it had viewed didnt show an assailant enter or 
leave Mr Ns property. It later informed S that there was only one entrance and exit, which 
Mr N said is wrong due to the presence of a neighbouring alleyway.
On 12 December 2018 Mr N attended a voluntary police interview to discuss an allegation of 
fraud by false representation. He provided an account of what had happened and, following 
this interview, received a letter that confirmed he would not be charged with any offences. 
The police made S aware of this outcome on 3 January 2019 and it explained its view as to 
what had most likely taken place on the date in question.On 29 January 2019 S wrote to Mr N to inform him that, following enquiries with the police, it 
had concerns about the veracity of his account about the circumstances of the theft. S asked 
Mr N to explain why there were discrepancies between what he had told it and the police 
about what had happened. It also drew Mr Ns attention to the fraud clause in his policy. 
On 7 February 2019 Mr N responded to S request by asking for disclosure of interview 
notes and an extension of time. Mr N said he didnt receive any disclosure from S.
On 6 March 2019 S wrote to Mr N again requesting further information from him. And, as S 
hadnt received a substantive response from Mr N by 2 April 2019 it wrote to him repudiating 
his claim due to a breach of the policy condition relating to fraud and because he hasnt 
provided a substantive response to the concerns Aviva had raised about discrepancies in 
the accounts he had given. Mr N wrote to S on receipt of this letter to ask it to provide all 
evidence relating to his interview. He also denied that he had acted in a fraudulent manner. 
Mr N subsequently complained to Aviva about how his claim had been dealt with. He was 
unhappy it thought his claim was fraudulent, which he said there was no evidence for. He 
said the service he received was poor in that there were delays, Aviva was rude to him and 
brought his character into disrepute. But Aviva investigated Mr Ns concerns and didnt 
uphold his complaint  stating it hadnt treated him unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to his complaint Mr N referred it our service. He 
wanted Aviva to consider his claim and pay it. Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint 
but didnt recommend upholding it. They werent persuaded Aviva had acted unfairly in how 
it had dealt with the Mr Ns claim. And they explained that, as Mr N hadnt provided a 
satisfactory explanation for the discrepancies in the accounts he gave Aviva and the police, 
its approach was reasonable. But Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view of his 
complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mr N has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about his complaint. I want to 
assure him that Ive read everything he's sent us. I hope Mr N will understand if I dont 
address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr N. I realise this has had a big impact on him. 
And I can appreciate how distressing it must have been for Aviva not to settle his theft claim 
for the reasons it gave here. So, Ive carefully considered what happened and whether Aviva 
made an error it needs to put right.
Aviva says Mr N gave a different account to the police when compared to the circumstances 
of the claim he reported to it. But Mr N argues that the account he provided was consistent 
from the outset.
Ive carefully considered what Aviva says about the information Mr N gave the police. Having 
done so, I can understand why it would be concerned that there were discrepancies. I can 
also appreciate why the comments the police made about the likelihood of the theft taking 
place as Mr N had described raised concerns this may have been a fraudulent claim. I can understand why Aviva would want to seek clarification from Mr N about the account he 
provided the police. As Ive already mentioned there were inconsistencies. And insurance 
companies have a responsibility to investigate claims to prevent fraud. Overall, Im satisfied 
Aviva acted fairly in asking Mr N to explain why the account he gave the police was different 
to the circumstances of the claim he reported to it.
Mr N feels Aviva caused unnecessary delays in assessing his claim. I recognise it was 15 
months from the date of the incident Mr N claimed for to the date S informed him it was 
repudiating his claim. But I dont consider this to be an unreasonable period of time given the 
amount of the claim Aviva was assessing and the seriousness of the fraud accusation. 
Fraud is obviously a serious matter. Its therefore no surprise that S had to undertake a very 
thorough investigation on Avivas behalf. During the course of S investigation it had to make 
additional reasonable enquires  some of which were with the police, which inevitably took 
time. 
I can see S made efforts to chase up information it needed from the police. There were 
delays in the police responding and completing its investigation. But I cant fairly hold Aviva 
responsible for that. And I think it was reasonable for Aviva to await the outcome of the 
police investigation before deciding how to proceed with Mr Ns claim.
I realise how upsetting this has been for Mr N. He feels Aviva is using the scenario to avoid 
settling a legitimate theft claim. And he said he cooperated with Avivas requests for further 
information at every stage, which was complicated by language barriers. 
Its clear that Mr N feels he couldnt have been any more responsive. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen he didnt provide a substantive response to S despite several requests 
that he explain the discrepancies in his account. I understand that he asked S to disclose 
notes relating to his interview, which werent provided. But Im not persuaded that this 
prevented him from responding to S correspondence. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant say Aviva acted unfairly in declining to 
cover Mr Ns theft claim. The terms of his policy with Aviva entitle it to repudiate a claim if it 
is in any way dishonest or exaggerated or if a policyholder fails to cooperated in providing 
information it reasonably requires.
By not providing a substantive response Mr N didnt allay Avivas concerns that he had 
misrepresented information about his claim. It therefore wasnt able to validate the legitimacy 
of Mr Ns claim. And so, it continued to feel the information he had provided the police 
contradicted what hed told it about the circumstances of the theft. It also stated Mr N hadnt 
provided enough supporting evidence to substantiate his theft claim as the CCTV doesnt 
show what happened.
Mr N believes its unfair for Aviva to treat his claim as fraudulent when the police took no 
action and no prosecution was brought against him. But an insurer only need feel a claim is 
fraudulent on the balance of probabilities. And, given the concerns Aviva had here, I dont 
think it unreasonably thought that Mr N was trying to exaggerate his claim and gain 
something to which he wasnt entitled. In circumstances such as this, the policy terms clearly 
permit Aviva to decline any claims.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive seen I cant 
fairly conclude Aviva has acted unreasonably in declining to pay his theft claim. It feels this 
claim was fraudulent and, as Mr N didnt provide a response that addressed its concerns 
about the truthfulness of the claim he was making, it wasnt able to overlook that. In the overall circumstances, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Ns complaint. Theres 
no basis for me to say Aviva should meet his claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman