DRN-3043040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim they made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2015, Mr and Mrs W were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs W decided to buy the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2017 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £10,839.00 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs W  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, 
so the true cost was £21,191.40. 
Mr and Mrs W were promised a tax-free year one benefit of £831.28.
It was not explained to them that after they had made their monthly payment there 
would be an annual deficit of £1,298.59.
The credit agreement would be self-funded by the feed-in-tariff (or FIT) payments 
alone. 
The system would not cost them a penny.
They would make savings on their electricity bills.
Mr W suffers from dyslexia and therefore would not have understood the figures.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs W and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December 
2013; copies of marketing material used by P; a job advert for P; the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook; and some of Mr and Mrs Ws electricity bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said that, having reviewed the information it held on 
file, as well as information provided by P, it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. In summary, it said:
Ps contract with Mr and Mrs W set out the expected total returns from the system and 
this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not self-
funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved. 
The contract showed that the expected annual return in year one was £831.28 and 
clearly detailed that the monthly repayments due were £117.73 or £1,412.76 annually. 
So it was clear there would be a deficit. 
The performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract.
The system wouldnt increase Mr and Mrs Ws electricity consumption, and any 
increase in their electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle.
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs W to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
and Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
P recommended that Mr and Mrs W should delay registering their system with a FIT 
provider. This has resulted in them receiving a lower FIT rate.
The self-consumption used when predicting the benefits should be at a rate of 37% and 
P exaggerated the savings by using a higher rate.
The repayments section does not make it clear that Mr and Mrs W would need to make 
a contribution each month.
The table on page 13 does not compare the benefits to the loan repayments. 
The graph on page 6 is hard to understand. 
The sales representative told Mr and Mrs W numerous times that the system would be 
self-funding.
The quotation was generated after the purchase and Mr and Mrs W did not possess the 
relevant expertise to understand its contents.
An OWL device is not guaranteed to save any money and it was not reasonable to use 
this in the benefit calculation.
The CMC also suggested that we speak to Mr and Mrs W for their recollections. When our 
investigator spoke to Mr and Mrs W, they told us:
The sales representative insisted that the sale needed to go through quickly in order to 
get the tariff available at the time.
The system was installed within the 14-day cooling off period, so they had no option to 
back out. 
The sales representative told them that there was no rush to pick a FIT supplier. 
Mr W explained that he has dyslexia and takes Mrs W to work events so that she can 
explain things to him.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement arranged by P, 
Shawbrook agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs W 
could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by P in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 
75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purposes of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the   
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documentsThere are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ws solar quote, titled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, the CMC told us that Mr and Mrs W didnt 
receive the quote. Shawbrook has provided detailed information explaining Ps sale 
processes. This detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the 
consumers shortly after the initial meeting by email. Based on our experience of what we 
have seen with similar complaints, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that P did send 
this document to Mr and Mrs W. I note as well that they both signed it.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr and Mrs W have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by their FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what they say they were told as I consider the 
quote was central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs W could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £466.49 from their FIT. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs W could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £364.79 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £831.28. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
There is a section headed Your System Returns and Average Monthly Savings over 20 
Years with a series of tables. Theres a section titled Repayments. This has three tables 
set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £115.81 due and compares the overall 
expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, with the expected 
loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income with their 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that they were told 
that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs W has said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,839.00. They 
have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £21,191.40.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs W makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £10,839.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £10,839.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£21,191.40.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £10,839.00, it would cost 
Mr and Mrs W more than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would not cost them a 
penny, and that they could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £831.28.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system and the 
expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing the 
two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs W were expected to have 
made a loss of £45.30 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of 
£41.50 a month. It wouldnt be until year 11 was repaid that the expected benefits would 
exceed their monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wont be until the loan is 
repaid that they will have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system 
will be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs W were told that the system would not cost 
them a penny. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between their 
expected income and monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs W were told that theyd receive a year one benefit of £831.28 as 
this was the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on their 
energy bills. Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs W were led to believe that theyd receive this sum as a payment. Im 
satisfied that the quote makes it clear that theyd have to make loan repayments and overall 
there would be a deficit.
The estimated performance over 20 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years.This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive 
will have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made them aware that 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, I believe P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and I were 
satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs W. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,131.81 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should generate 8.58 kWh of energy each day. Mr and Mrs W 
have provided their FIT statements which show that between March 2016 and March 2016 
the system generated 3,435.39 kWh which equates to 9.41 kWh a day. This is more than the 
estimates provided at the point of sale.
So, based on this, I would expect Mr and Mrs W to be close to recouping any initial losses 
from the system and for it to be paying for itself. Mr and Mrs W have said that this isnt the 
case so Ive gone on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and 
savings Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable 
assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr and Mrs W was personalised to their specific circumstances and 
used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. Those assumptions included the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs W would use rather than buying it from their energy provider, leading to 
savings on their energy bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the 
expected annual increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI 
were based on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote sets out that Mr and Mrs W were expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of the 
kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual 
saving of £364.79. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS 
data Ive mentioned above.
The CMC responded to the investigators view and explained that it believed a 37% self-
consumption rate would be fair. This is based on a report completed by a solar expert 
several years after Mr and Mrs Ws system was sold.
Shawbrook has provided detailed information about Ps sale process in relation to 
calculating the amount of energy a consumer would self-consume from the system. It 
explained that P would ask a consumer what their current electricity consumption and cost 
were and then use this information to estimate the potential savings.
At the point of sale Mr and Mrs W told P that their current electricity spend was £76 a month 
(£912 per year) and P used this to calculate the potential savings of the system. 
I think Ps method for calculating the self-consumption rate is reasonable and personalised 
to Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, based on the information they provided at the time of the 
sale. I dont think it was unreasonable for P to ask customers about their electricity bills and 
then rely on this information to calculate the electricity savings the system would generate.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr and Mrs W were expected to self-
consume were both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs W could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 
8.38% and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view help to explain why Mr and Mrs W arent receiving the financial 
returns from the system that they may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 
17. Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by the financial returns from 
their system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when they 
entered into the contract for the system. 
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has told us it 
paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im 
of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act. 
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P and 
the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant be certain that 
this was provided to Mr and Mrs W, or that it relates to the time their panels were sold. 
Whilst it does refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded 
I can place much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr and Mrs Ws 
personalised quote. And, as I have explained above, based on the assumptions made when 
Mr and Mrs W entered into the contract with P Im satisfied that their system would have 
been self-funding by year 11 and would have paid for itself by year 17 from installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, two years before Mr 
and Mrs W entered into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve 
Ps sales process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. 
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved before Mr and Mrs W entered into the contract. I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
The CMC has also explained that it believes the quotation was generated after the sale and 
was not provided to Mr and Mrs W at the point of sale. I note that the quotation is signed by 
Mr and Mrs W and dated 26 September 2015. I have seen no evidence to support the 
allegation that it was generated later than that. I also note that some of the pages of the 
quotation were signed, which I think demonstrates that it was generated and seen by Mr and 
Mrs W at the point of sale. 
Mr W has dyslexia and the CMC has explained that he would not have understood the 
figures in the quote. When our investigator spoke to Mr W, he said that Mrs W explains 
things to him so he can understand. He also confirmed that this is what happened at the point of sale. Therefore I dont think that P should have done anything further to ensure that 
Mr W understood the quote.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that there were any untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs 
W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and I do not require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman