DRN-2323103
The complaint
Mr H has complained about St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPWM). He is 
unhappy about advice it provided in relation to a potential transfer of pension benefits he 
held.
What happened
Mr H took advice from SJPWM in 2019. He wanted to transfer benefits he held in a former 
employers pension scheme. The scheme was a defined benefits scheme. Ultimately 
SJPWM advised against the transfer saying that it was not in Mr Hs best interests. Mr H 
subsequently transferred without advice, but he received a lower transfer value, by over 
£40,000.
Mr H says that his personal circumstances werent properly taken into account, and there 
was no proper justification for why the transfer wasnt suitable for him. He is also unhappy 
about the time taken and says that there were delays.
SJPWM didnt uphold his complaint and so it was referred to this service. It was considered 
by an investigator, but she didnt think that it should be upheld. She didnt think the advice 
was unsuitable or that SJPWM had caused any unnecessary delay.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman and so the case has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Ive decided that I agree with the investigators conclusion that the 
complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that SJPWM failed to take proper account of his circumstances. Hes highlighted 
some specific areas which he thinks werent properly considered, these include; his income 
needs and his capacity for loss, tax advantages he could have achieved on transfer, the 
extra tax-free cash he could have received, his own health, the particular needs of his son 
and the financial impact of those needs, his estate and his wish to provide for his children 
and not leave his assets trapped in the pension scheme, and his own extensive knowledge 
of finance and the finance industry. 
Ill consider the issues of delay and the suitability of the advice separately.
Delay
Ive considered if SJPWM caused any unnecessary delay. I dont think that it did. The CETV 
Mr H had obtained was valid for three months from 16 September 2019. He had a first 
meeting on 4 October 2019. Information had to be gathered from the pension scheme and a 
TVAS prepared. This was done and advice provided on 24 November, that advice advised 
against the transfer. There was then an internal appeal process which seems to have been 
initiated by the individual adviser. That appeal didnt change the advice.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any unreasonable delay in SJPWM providing the 
advice. Also, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr H from the outset that the process 
could take time, possibly months and there was no assurance given that the process would 
be complete by 16 December 2020 when the CETV expired. He had also been informed that 
SJPWM may not recommend the transfer.
Advice
When considering transfers out of defined benefit schemes like this, the industry regulator 
has provided clear guidance to advisers on the approach that should be taken. It says:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
Its therefore clear that the starting point is that transferring out will not be suitable for most 
people. And a transfer should only be recommended if there is clear evidence that it is in the 
best interests of the consumer. This is because of the valuable guarantees contained within 
the defined benefit scheme. 
SJPWM gave its professional opinion that the transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Im 
satisfied that it gave this advice when it was in possession of information about Mr Hs 
relevant circumstances. I dont agree that it took just a broad brush approach. The letter of 
advice dated 5 December 2020 clearly set out some of the factors that had been considered, 
including Mr Hs experience and knowledge, his sons needs, his personal circumstances 
and the impact on his estate. Mr H seems to believe that the appropriate weight wasnt 
attached to some of his specific circumstances but there is no clear evidence that was the 
case. I think SJPWM was entitled to use its expertise, judgement and discretion when giving 
the advice that it did and when deciding how much weight it should attach to all the relevant 
considerations. Whilst another adviser could possibly have reached a different conclusion, 
that doesnt mean that this advice was wrong or unsuitable. It was effectively an expert 
opinion, and there is no definitive right or wrong answer.
This letter also clearly states that there were reservations about Mr Hs capacity for loss and 
the fact that this pension was his main asset, which doesnt seem to be in dispute.
And this advice must be considered against the background of the regulators guidance 
which requires an assumption that the transfer will not be suitable and that there must be 
clear evidence that it is in the best interests of the consumer. So, the default position is 
always that a transfer should not be recommended unless there is a compelling case for it.
Given it had advised against transfer and didnt consider the transfer to be in his best 
interest, I dont think SJPWM was acting unreasonably in declining to complete a declaration 
for Mr H. But in any event, he was able to transfer without that.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman