DRN-2517661
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with The Co-operative Bank Plcs (Co-ops) handling of his fraud claim after 
he fell victim to an online scam.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr R searched online for quotes to have a motorbike shipped from Europe to 
the UK. He compared a number of quotes before eventually deciding on a company he felt 
would provide the service he needed. So, on 19 July 2019, Mr R logged into his online 
banking and made a payment of £150 for the transportation of the bike. There was some 
back and forth with the shipping company but ultimately the bike was never picked up and 
delivered to Mr R. Mr R was told by the scammers on numerous occasions that he would 
get a refund but this never materialised either. 
Mr R first reported the matter to Co-op on 6 March 2020. He says it was only at this point 
that he realised he had definitely been the victim of a scam. Mr R told Co-op that he 
thought the £150 payment should be refunded to him under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) which came into force on 28 May 2019. 
After investigating Mr Rs fraud claim, Co-op told Mr R they wouldnt be refunding him the 
£150 that he had lost, on the basis that he had authorised the payment himself and that it 
hadnt signed up to the CRM at the time Mr R fell victim to the scam. 
Mr R was unhappy with Co-ops response and he brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint  but she didnt think Co-op had done anything 
wrong in not offering Mr R a refund and she didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
processing the £150 payment on his behalf.  The investigator also considered if Co-op 
couldve done anything else to help Mr R but again felt there was nothing else it couldve 
done on this occasion.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He re-iterated that the CRM should be applied 
to his case as he reported the fraud to Co-op once it had become a signatory to the code. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint is now with me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr R and I have a lot of 
sympathy for the situation he has found himself in. I can understand why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. But having considered everything, 
Im not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be 
for Mr R, but I dont think I can fairly say that Co-op should reimburse him with the 
£150 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Mr R has requested that Co-op reimburse him under the CRM. The CRM came into effect on 
28 May 2019, but the code is voluntary and Co-op didnt sign up to it until 1 December 2019. 
As Co-op wasnt signed up to the code at the time Mr R fell victim to this scam, the CRM is 
not applicable to his case  it is not retrospective. And so, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask 
Co-op to reimburse Mr R under a code it wasnt subject to at the time. 
I understand that Mr R feels that we should consider the date the scam occurred to be the 
date he realised he had been a victim of a scam. But I dont agree. A scam occurs when the 
fraudulent act is committed  in this case when Mr R was tricked into transferring the £150 to 
the fraudsters - not when the victim becomes aware of the fraud itself. And so Ive gone on 
to consider this complaint in light of the regulations in place at the time  The Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr R was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment online. So, 
although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, this does mean the 
starting position here is that Mr R authorised the payment and Co-op, in following his 
instructions, would not be liable for his loss.
However, there are sometimes other reasons why it may be appropriate for financial 
institutions like Co-op to refund the payment still. So, Ive also considered if Co-op shouldve 
taken any other steps on this occasion to protect Mr R from financial harm  and whether 
this wouldve made a difference. But I dont think there was anything inherently suspicious or 
unusual enough about this transaction that meant Co-op shouldve picked up on it and 
stopped it from leaving his account. The payment isnt unusual when compared to Mr Rs 
typical account activity - it is a single payment, for a relatively small amount and it leaves Mr 
R with a significant account balance. And so I dont think there was anything about the 
transaction that shouldve alerted Co-op that Mr R was potentially falling victim to a scam.
Ive also considered whether the bank exercised enough care and urgency in trying to 
recover the stolen funds from the payee bank before they were removed by the scammers. 
And I can see that Co-op raised an indemnity with the receiving bank on the same day it was 
notified of the fraud and it was informed at that point that the scammers had withdrawn all of 
Mr Rs funds from the receiving account. And so, I dont think theres anything further Co-op 
couldve done to retrieve Mr Rs money at this point either. 
I am very sorry that Mr R has lost out but, in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
Co-op should offer him a refund of the money he lost as part of the scam. The fault here 
lies with the fraudsters.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against The 
Co-operative Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman