DRN-3266841
The complaint
Company P (P) complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly closed its bank account in 
2019 after carrying out a review and not given any reason why. P are unhappy HSBC wont 
make out a cheque for any remaining funds to a subsidiary company who form part of the 
wider group of companies its part of - and which has common directors. 
What happened
In July 2018, HSBC asked P for information related to its know your business review. In 
October 2018, HSBC said it was going to close Ps account in sixty days if it didnt get the 
information it needed for the know your business review. 
In April 2019, HSBC informed P it would be closing its account in August 2019. Due to 
restrictions being applied on the account, P was unable to send an international payment 
during this period. The account closed in November 2019. 
HSBC sent P a cheque for the remaining funds in the account. P hasnt been able to open 
another account in its name. Because of this, it asked HSBC to send a cheque made out to 
another company, which is part of its wider group and has directors in common. HSBC 
refuse to do this. 
P referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators looked into the matter. In 
summary they said: 
- HSBC acted within the terms of the account when closing Ps account 
- HSBC isnt required to give its reasons for closing the account 
- P is an individual legal entity, and HSBCs position not to draw up a cheque to 
another entity is fair 
As P were unhappy with what our investigator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ps complaint  Ill explain why.   
Account review and closure 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
when reviewing Ps account. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions on HSBCs website for this type of account, say it could close the 
account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it can close an 
account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. As I said above, HSBC had written to P to explain it 
was looking to close the account  and it did so by giving more than the sixty days notice 
required. In fact, I note the know your business review went on for well over a year before 
the account was closed. 
P would like to know specific reasons why HSBC reviewed, restricted and ultimately closed 
its account. I know of no legal obligation under which I need to give the specific reasons why 
HSBC took the actions it did.  
But broadly speaking, banks are required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, 
including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook and various pieces of primary and secondary legislations. Most of 
these regulatory requirements applies to all UK banks and HSBC is subject to these legal 
and regulatory requirements.
Issuing a cheque for residual funds
P finds it unfair HSBC refuse to issue a cheque in another companys name that is part of 
the same group and has mutual directors. P say its been unable to open another bank 
account under its own name since HSBC closed its account. 
I appreciate this mater has been frustrating for P, but Im satisfied HSBC is acting fairly. I say 
that because P is its own separate legal entity and paying any other entity despite how 
closely linked it may be, simply put, isnt. And importantly, given the concerns HSBC have 
about P and why it decided to close its account, I think declining to draw up a check in 
another companys name is both fair and reasonable.  
So overall, I think HSBC have acted fairly and within the terms of the account when 
reviewing, restricting and ultimately closing Ps account. And it hasnt done anything wrong 
by issuing a cheque for the remaining funds in Ps name  and not to any other business or 
entity. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman