DRN-2391036
The complaint
Miss B complains about the poor service she received from IGO4 after she contacted it as 
the administrator of her car insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The problems with Miss Bs policy started almost straight away. IGO4 said the 
documents it received from her were blurred and unreadable. She uploaded them 
again and when that didnt work, she asked IGO4 to contact her. It didnt do that and 
so she contacted IGO4 herself. Although it helped her provide the documents, it 
failed to call her back to update her and then told her by email that one of the 
documents, for her no claims bonus, was invalid. She asked for clarification but IGO4 
didnt reply and she had to call them again a few days later.
This poor service was compounded by IGO4 failing to send the refund that had been 
agreed and issuing further correspondence to her after shed cancelled the policy.
IGO4 accept it provided a poor service but thinks its already done enough to put 
things right. It said it had waived the new business fee of £60 and the cancellation 
fee of £65. It had refunded the amount shed paid for her policy (apart from the two 
weeks she had the policy before it was cancelled) and it had given Miss B £15 for 
failing to send the refund and for sending further correspondence after the policy was 
cancelled.
IGO4 also said the website used by Miss B to buy the policy clearly stated that a no 
claims bonus is only valid if its earned on a private car. It said Miss B hadnt 
therefore recorded her no claims bonus correctly.
Miss B disputes that and says she was clear when she got the quote that her no 
claims bonus was earned on a company car.  
Whatever the situation, its clear from the evidence that Miss B tried to resolve things 
quickly and IGO4 made things more difficult than they needed to be. It didnt call her 
back when it said it would, it didnt clarify things when requested and it didnt respond 
when it should have done. It then delayed sending her the refund that had been 
agreed and sent further correspondence to her even after shed cancelled the policy. 
Miss B was also distressed by the length of the calls she made to IGO4, including 
having to spend long periods of time on hold.
Miss B has said that, at the time of these events, shed recently left her job due to 
work related stress and she was undergoing counselling to help her deal with the 
anxiety that she was going through. She said the poor service she received from 
IGO4 and the difficulties she had resolving the situation had a significant impact on 
her at a time she was already struggling emotionally.
In light of the above, I think it was right that IGO4 apologised for the service it 
provided and took steps to recognise the inconvenience it caused. But, taking 
everything into account, I think it needs to do more to put things right, particularly 
because of the significant impact it had on Miss B. I think a further £50 would be a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
To resolve Miss Bs complaint, IGO4 should pay Miss B a further £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman