DRN-3602014
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) stopped paying 
his monthly benefit under an income protection insurance policy (the policy) which he had 
the benefit of.
What happened
Towards the end of 2018, Mr T started to experience pain in his right, dominant, hand and 
he became absent from work. He was subsequently signed off work by his GP with a named 
medical condition. Due to the pain he was experiencing he said he wasnt able to fulfil the 
duties of his role. 
Mr T made a claim on the policy, which could pay out a portion of his income after hed been 
off work for 13 weeks (the deferred period). The claim was accepted by L&G, and he 
received the monthly benefit with effect of February 2019. 
The claim was suspended in February 2021 because L&G said there was limited medical 
evidence to support Mr Ts ongoing incapacity under the terms of the policy. And that his 
symptoms were largely self-reported. It said it would arrange a functional capacity evaluation 
(FCE) for March 2021. That didnt go ahead because a close family member of Mr Ts sadly 
died. The FCE eventually took place in September 2021.
Based on the report that was produced following the FCE, L&G took the decision to stop 
paying the claim. L&G concluded that the findings of the FCE didnt support Mr Ts claim. It 
said there wasnt any objective medical evidence to confirm the physical limitations 
impacting on his ability to perform the essential duties of his role.
Mr T raised a complaint with our service, which wasnt upheld by out investigator. She didnt 
think L&G had acted unfairly by stopping the monthly benefit. 
Mr T disagreed, so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr T will be very disappointed but for the reasons 
below, I dont think L&G has unfairly stopped paying the monthly benefit under the policy.
L&G has a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. As L&G initially accepted the claim, its for it to establish that Mr T no longer 
met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Under the policy this means that Mr T has no capacity for working in your own occupation , 
on any basis, as a direct result of your injury or illness.
Im not a medical expert, so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether L&G has acted fairly and reasonably here. And I think it has for the reasons below.
Im satisfied that L&G fairly decided to suspend paying the claim in early 2021 whilst 
it waited for Mr T to undergo a FCE. I think L&G fairly concluded by that stage that Mr 
T hadnt had a face to face consultation with his GP for many months and he was 
being signed off from work without seeing his GP, largely based on self-reported 
symptoms. 
The report containing the results of the FCE reflect that Mr T declined all tests 
relating to his right hand so the Independent Medical Expert (IME) was unable to 
provide an opinion on any apparent muscle wasting, weakness, tenderness, range of 
movement, grip strength, pinch strength, or functional capabilities in his hand 
impacting his ability to perform the essential and substantial demands of his role. The 
IMEs report reflects that Mr T didnt want to take off his wrist splint. 
The IME also raised concerns that Mr Ts perceived exertion levels didnt correlate 
with the heart rates measured in any of the tests undertaken, indicating there was 
evidence of significant symptom exaggeration during testing. And that Mr T 
demonstrated reduced abilities to reach out, perform fine dexterity, perform handling, 
key pinch and tip pinch with the left hand  which was his unimpaired side of the 
body. 
Mr T has told our investigator that the IME report is inaccurate, and he did participate 
in all tests conducted in the FCE. However, in the absence of L&G receiving a 
revised report or confirmation from the IME that the report was inaccurate, I dont 
think its unfairly relied on the contents of the IME report to stop paying the claim. 
That report is clear that many tests remained incomplete as theyd been declined by 
Mr T. 
Mr T has provided an Occupational Therapist report dated November 2021, so 
around two months after the date of the IME report. That report concludes that at the 
present time Mr T was debilitated and unable to carry out his current employment. It 
reflects that Mr T was asked to complete a questionnaire. And the results of that 
questionnaire indicated that Mr T had low functional abilities using the affected 
upper limb. But Ive placed less weight of the results of the questionnaire as this was 
completed by Mr T and the answers were based on his self-reporting. 
The Occupational Therapist report also reflects that Mr T had significantly reduced 
grip in his right hand compared with his left hand, there was some areas of dry skin 
and the right hand was generally stiff in movement. However, there was no mention 
of muscle wastage and Mr T didnt undergo the range of tests that the FCE offered. 
So, Im less persuaded by the results of the functionality test that Mr T underwent in 
November 2021, when its reflected that he declined a number of tests a couple of 
months before and didnt remove his splint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman