DRN-2482922
The complaint
Ms R complains that after switching her bank account to National Westminster Bank plc 
(NatWest) she was later told she wasnt eligible for a £175 switch reward.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms Rs bank account switched to NatWest as they were offering a £175 
reward for doing so. Ms R says she asked NatWest in branch a number of times after this 
about when shed receive her reward for switching. She also says she was told several times 
that she was eligible for the reward. NatWest later told Ms R she wasnt eligible for the 
reward. 
In July 2020 Ms R complained to NatWest as she was unhappy about not being made aware 
that she wouldnt qualify for the reward before completing her account switch for the second 
time. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Ms R wasnt eligible for the 
switching offer as, under the offer terms, a cash reward could only be availed of once. They 
said Ms R had completed a previous switch in September 2019 and had been paid the 
reward for that switch in February 2020.
Ms R referred her complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator 
considered the evidence but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, he 
found that that NatWest had acted fairly when not paying the reward after the second switch. 
Ms R didnt accept the investigators opinion so the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened - in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms R that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
When coming to my decision, I need to decide if Ms R was given sufficient information about 
the switch reward, if NatWest have acted inline with the terms of the offer (when not paying 
the £175) and if NatWest have treated Ms R fairly and reasonably overall.
Ms R says she wasnt told that she wouldnt be eligible for the switching reward and, had she 
known shed not receive the reward for this switch, shed have chosen not to switch her 
account. But NatWest says Ms R was provided with the full terms and conditions when 
completing the account switch application. NatWest have also said that when a switch 
application is taking place the terms would be read out if in branch or provided to the 
customer if it was an online switch. 
In my opinion the terms and conditions are sufficiently clear about the circumstances in 
which the offer will not be paid. I also think there was some responsibility on Ms R to check 
them before deciding to go ahead with the switch. I think this is particularly relevant here as 
shed completed another switch to NatWest only a few months before and she has 
suggested that she switched to NatWest (in this second instance) for the £175 reward rather 
than for better terms than she already had on her existing account. 
The offer terms made it clear that if a customer has been paid a cash offer for switching their 
account during the period October 2017 - 11 February 2020, they wont be eligible for this 
£175 offer. 
Its not in dispute that Ms R also switched her account to NatWest a few months before - in 
September 2019 - and was later paid a cash reward in February 2020. So, I think NatWest 
have acted fairly and inline with the offer terms when deciding not to pay Ms R the reward in 
this instance. 
A large part of Ms Rs complaint is her dissatisfaction at the length of time it took NatWest to 
confirm that she wasnt eligible for a second time. Ms R switched her account in March 2020, 
but it seems that Ms R was only told she wasnt eligible for the reward until a few months 
afterwards. Whilst understandably very frustrating for Ms R, the terms of this offer dont state 
that NatWest will contact the customer if they arent eligible. 
Ive also considered that overall eligibility wouldnt actually be known until the other criteria 
(for example; keeping the account open, maintaining a balance and having direct debits) had 
been met and the date it was to be paid by was 5 June. Ive also kept in mind that the 
COVID-19 pandemic was ongoing during the entire period between Ms R switching and 
finding out she wasnt eligible - as this caused many delays for businesses. So, whilst it 
wouldve been very helpful if NatWest had told Ms R sooner, I dont consider it an overly 
long or unreasonable delay given the circumstances  and not something Im awarding 
compensation for. 
Ms R says that she was told in branch by NatWest staff that she was eligible prior to later 
being told that she wasnt. Whilst Ive noted that Ms R has referred to one specific date (13 
May 2020) when she says she was told that she did qualify for the £175 reward and that it 
would be paid on 5 June 2020, NatWest have investigated this but dont have a record of 
any such conversation. In fairness, I wouldnt necessarily expect every conversation to have 
a detailed note or record. For example, if a customer is in branch and a staff member assists 
them with a general query or question, there wouldnt always be a business record of this. 
I think it more likely than not the customer adviser was trying to be helpful in answering 
Ms Rs query and referred to the general terms of the offer for all customers - which stated, if 
eligible, the reward would be paid by 5 June 2020. I find it less likely that the adviser would 
have known that Ms R had previously benefited from the offer and then given her incorrect 
information. 
Ms R has also referred to a NatWest manager speaking rudely to her. Ive thought carefully 
about this. I know Ms R has strong feelings about her overall experience, but ultimately the 
information the manager gave was incorrect. Although the managers behaviour may have 
been below the standard Ms R expected, Ive not seen enough to make me think the service 
was poor to the extent that compensation is appropriate here.
Ive noted what Ms R has said about her experience of switching with another business - that 
they checked her eligibility at the outset. Whilst my decision is focused solely on this 
particular NatWest switch, different businesses will have different processes in place around checking eligibility for switching rewards they offer. It wouldnt be within my remit to direct 
any business to change their switching process or the offers they use to attract new 
customers.
Overall I dont think that NatWest have treated Ms R unfairly here when not paying her a 
reward for switching for a second time. I know Ms R will be disappointed with this outcome. 
But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with 
NatWest  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman