DRN-3082072
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim he made on his travel
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R booked a holiday abroad, he was due to travel on 21 March 2020. On 11 March 2020
the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and a few days
later the country Mr R was due to visit closed all non-essential public spaces. On 17 March
2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK citizens against all but
essential travel.
Mr R made a claim for his unused holiday costs but URV declined the claim on the basis that
there was no cover under the policy for a change in FCO advice. Mr R complained to URV
but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr R made a complaint to
our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought it
wasnt fair that Mr R was left in a position where he wasnt covered if he travelled against
FCO advice, but also not covered if he cancelled. URV didnt agree and asked an
ombudsman to review the complaint. They said, in summary, that the policy clearly set out
what was covered, and the exclusion wasnt intended to cover the unprecedented situation
of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In August 2021 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say 
that insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive taken these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. 
Ive also had regard to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about 
the policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the 
top of page 1, says;
The following summary does not contain the terms and conditions of the contract
which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums insured are
specified in your policy schedule.
And, also on page 1 it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 12 of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the 
policy. It excludes:
You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time
of your departure.
On page 13 the section entitled Cancellation  If you are unable to go on your trip 
sets out the circumstances under which URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which 
cannot be recovered from any other source. These are if the policyholder is unable to 
travel because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion being made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
applicable at the time of your departure.
Was the claim declined unfairly?
Im not upholding this complaint because:
The trip was cancelled due to circumstances entirely outside of Mr Rs 
control. But the trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons specified on page 
13 of the policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice isnt a valid 
reason for a cancellation claim to be paid under the policy. It isnt a listed, 
insured event for which cover is provided under the terms of the policy
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr R to be left in a position where he had no
cover for cancelling the trip due to a change in FCO advice but to also have 
no cover if hed gone ahead and travelled in the event that it was possible for 
him to do so. There are some limited situations where, if I considered that 
policy documentation wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain 
policy exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept 
a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think 
thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to explainI think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion 
of cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be
prominent in the IPID. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and
conditions which form the contract of insurance between Mr R and URV. As 
Ive outlined above the exclusion in relation to the lack of cover for the advice 
or recommendation of the FCO was referred to in the general summary of
conditions and exclusions. It was also specifically highlighted in the 
cancellation section of the policy
Although Mr R may have been in the position of having no cover under this 
policy if he travelled and also having no cover if he cancelled, I think these 
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of 
this policy. It was up to Mr R to ensure he had the level of cover he required 
to meet his needs and if he wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in 
FCO advice, its likely he couldve found another policy on the market which 
wouldve covered the situation he found himself in
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
URV to accept this claim.
Neither Mr R or URV made any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R or URV made any further comments in response to my provisional decision 
there is no reason for me to reach a different outcome. 
I remain satisfied, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, that URV fairly 
declined Mr Rs claim. So, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman