The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society allowed his wife to access funds from their 
joint account after it had been notified they were in a dispute. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr C says he accidentally credited £1,000 to a joint account held with his 
wife. He had separated from his wife, so he visited a branch to try to remove the funds. 
He was told the account was in dispute and that withdrawals couldn't be made without 
permission from both account holders. However, in April 2019, Mr C's wife withdrew the full 
balance of the account.
Mr C complained to Nationwide which confirmed its branch hadn't followed correct 
procedures and shouldn't have allowed his wife access to the account. It said the dispute 
about the funds was a civil matter and it couldn't provide redress for this as this could be 
resolved in divorce proceedings. However, it did agree to pay Mr C £150 compensation for 
its mistake.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. He thought Nationwide was right to pay Mr C compensation. But he agreed 
that Nationwide didn't need to refund the money Mr C's wife had withdrawn as this was a 
dispute between Mr C and his wife which could be resolved during divorce proceedings.
Mr C didn't agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. So it's been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't disputed that Nationwide made a mistake in allowing Mr C's wife to make a withdrawal 
from their joint account when there was an ongoing dispute. What I need to decide is how 
matters should be put right.
I understand why Mr C feels that Nationwide should refund the money to him. He says it is 
his, and his wife should not have it. Because of a mistake Nationwide made, his wife was 
able to access it. However, it doesn't automatically follow that Nationwide should refund the 
money to Mr C. This is because Mr C's wife is also a part of this dispute, as it was her that 
withdrew the money. As Mr C is going through divorce proceedings, I agree with Nationwide 
that this will be the most suitable way to resolve this matter. It isn't for Nationwide to decide 
who is entitled to that money, nor can I do this. This is a matter better dealt with by a court.
DRN-1812187Furthermore, if I were to award this money to Mr C, it would mean either his wife would keep 
the funds she withdrew or he may be awarded it in the divorce proceedings meaning he 
would've been compensated twice. So I'm not going to ask Nationwide to refund this money.
I do however think Nationwide should compensate Mr C for the distress and inconvenience 
its mistake has caused Mr C. It's offered £150 and I think this amount is fair and in line with 
what I would've awarded had it not made an offer. So I'm not going to ask it to increase this 
amount.
Nationwide has told us that it has sent the compensation to Mr C. Mr C says he 
hasn't received the payment of £150. Nationwide should check whether this has been paid 
to him, and if it hasn't, and Mr C accepts my decision, then it should pay this to him.
My final decision
I understand Mr C feels very strongly about this matter. And I am sorry to disappoint him. But 
my final decision is Nationwide Building Society's offer of £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. And I don't require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman