DRN-3315291
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt explain the impact a payment deferral would 
have on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs B held two loan accounts with Lloyds. Due to the pandemic and associated lockdown, 
Mrs Bs ability to repay the loans was adversely affected. Lloyds provided Mrs B with two, 
three monthly payment deferrals in line the Financial Services Authority (FCA) guidelines 
introduced because of the pandemic. Part of the guidelines made it clear that when a covid 
payment deferral was in place, this information wouldnt be recorded on a consumers credit 
file. And this is what happened in Mrs Bs case.
But when the covid assistance came to an end, Mrs B was unable to restart her contractual 
loan repayments. Lloyds discussed various options available with Mrs B. Ultimately, Lloyds 
offered a new payment deferral to provide Mrs B with some breathing space. Mrs B 
accepted this solution.
Mrs B later discovered that Lloyds had recorded adverse information on her credit file as a 
result of this latest arrangement. She says Lloyds didnt explain clearly how agreeing to a 
further payment deferral would impact her credit file.
Mrs B complained to Lloyds. But it didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it did explain the 
impact the payment deferral would have. And that when Mrs B sought clarification on what 
this meant, she was told her credit score would go down as a result.
Unhappy with the response, Mrs B referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Lloyds had sufficiently explained the impact of entering into a payment deferral (after the 
initial covid relief had ended) would have on Mrs Bs credit file. She added that even she 
accepted the information provided could have been made clearer, she didnt think Mrs B 
would have been in a position to do anything different as the income and expenditure Mrs B 
completed with Lloyds showed an income deficit.
Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can see that Mrs B has also raised concerns with Lloyds about the distress caused 
when she received letters about the arrears on her account. But as the investigator has 
explained, a lender is required to send letters setting out the status of the account and this 
still applies when an arrangement is in place. But it seems Lloyds offered Mrs B £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Its not clear if Mrs B accepted this offer. If not, Mrs B should contact 
Lloyds directly about this if she now wants to accept the offer.
But the crux of this complaint is about the adverse information Lloyds recorded on Mrs Bs 
credit file which was responded to by Lloyds in a final response letter dated                                        
30 December 2020. So, for clarity, this decision relates specifically to the information 
recorded on Mrs Bs credit file.    
 
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I 
know Mrs B will be disappointed as I appreciate that her financial circumstances were 
impacted by the pandemic which was something outside of her control. But Lloyds is obliged 
to record factual information on a customers credit file. So, I can only uphold the complaint if 
I found that Lloyds had recorded the information incorrectly and I dont think it did. Ill explain 
why.    
As mentioned above, the FCA guidelines made it clear that when a covid payment deferral 
is put in place, the customers credit file shouldnt be negatively affected. However, the 
guidance said that any relief was intended to be temporary and applied for a maximum of  
six-monthly payments. After this, the guidance said:
Firms should take reasonable steps to contact their customers in good time before the end 
of an initial payment deferral period about resuming payments and to engage with them 
about their options when it expires.  
I think this means that a lender should look to assist a consumer  still experiencing financial 
difficulties after six months covid relief, positively and sympathetically in line with the normal 
lending regulations.
And Mrs B hasnt disputed that she had a discussion with Lloyds. Nor has she said it didnt 
assist her. Rather she says, when Lloyds offered a further three-month payment deferral, it 
didnt explain clearly how this would impact her credit file. And, had it done so, she says she 
would have asked Lloyds to consider other alternatives. So, Ive thought carefully about what 
information Lloyds gave Mrs B and whether there were other alternatives available which 
would have avoided any negative impact on her credit file.
Lloyds  like all regulated lenders, is required to explain the impact of a consumer agreeing 
to a reduced or nil payment plan or indeed any arrangement where contractual payments 
are not being met. Here, Lloyds said its representative read out a script setting out the terms 
of the payment deferral and the implications of entering into such an agreement. It says the 
script includes information about the impact on a consumers credit file. I think its important 
to explain that I consider the reading of a script in these circumstances to be normal 
business practise and that such scripts generally include all the information a lender is 
required to provide. This ensures accurate and consistent information is provided. 
While Lloyds has told us a recording of the call is no longer available, the customer notes it 
recorded at the time of the call indicate that the script was read to Mrs B. And Mrs B hasnt 
disputed she was told some information but she says didnt fully understand what was being 
said. So, on balance, Im persuaded the script was read out to Mrs B and that the script 
contained information about the impact on her credit file.Of course, I do fully appreciate that Mrs B had a lot of information to take in during that call. 
So, I accept that Mrs B may not have fully understood or remembered exactly everything 
that she was told. But I can see that Lloyds followed up the call with a letter setting out the 
payment deferral terms. The letter said:
being behind with your payments can affect your credit score and make it harder and more 
costly for you to borrow money.
It may also stay on your credit file for 6 years, but the impact on your credit score will reduce 
if you keep up with your payments.   
So, even if the information wasnt clear in the call, I think this letter clearly explains that 
entering this payment deferral would impact Mrs Bs credit file by reducing her credit score 
thereby making it more difficult to obtain new credit. And that the information would remain 
on her credit file for six years. Overall, I think Lloyds did enough to explain to Mrs B that 
agreeing to a nil payment plan would negatively impact her credit file and the implications of 
that.    
I have thought about what Mrs B has said about doing something different had she 
understood the impact the payment deferral would have on her credit file better. But Ive 
seen the income and expenditure breakdown Mrs B went through with Lloyds. And Im 
satisfied this shows Mrs B didnt have the disposable income to make payments towards her 
loans  her outgoings were more than her income. So, I dont think there would have been 
any alternative solution available to Mrs B that would have avoided a negative impact on her 
credit file at that point in time. 
I appreciate Mrs B has since told us that she repaid one of the loans, and cleared the arrears 
on the other, using money drawn down from her husbands pension. But, from what Ive 
seen, this didnt happen until March 2021 - several months after the final payment deferral 
was agreed. And Ive not seen enough information that would make me think Mrs B could 
have done this as sooner than she did. So, Im not persuaded Mrs B was in a position to do 
anything different when she contacted Lloyds when the covid relief ended. Even if Mrs B 
could have afforded to make some nominal payments at this point, this would have still been 
reflected negatively on her credit file.   
As mentioned above, Lloyds is obliged to record factual information on Mrs Bs credit file. 
And I think the information it recorded is an accurate reflection of what happened with her 
loan accounts. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to remove the information it recorded on Mrs Bs 
credit file.
I might be helpful for Mrs B to know that she can contact the credit reference agencies to ask 
that a notice of correction is added to her credit file. This is an opportunity for Mrs B to 
make other potential creditors aware that the payment problems she had isnt reflective of 
her general approach to meeting her repayments and came about because of the impact of 
the pandemic. More information can be found about a notice of correction here:
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html
https://help.equifax.co.uk/EquifaxOnlineHelp/s/article/What-is-a-Notice-of-Correction1
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman