DRN-3195239
The complaint
Mr T says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Around six months later, he took out a 
further advance on his mortgage and amended his PPI policy to cover the advance too. Mr T 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered his 
mortgage payments in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr T and Lloyds a provisional decision on 2 November 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Both when Mr T first took out the PPI, and then later when he increased his cover, he signed 
and submitted an application specifically for the policy. He also signed and submitted a 
direct debit mandate specifically to pay for it. On both occasions, this was done separately to 
applying for the lending itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. Lloyds sent 
Mr T letters confirming his choices, and also reminded him he could cancel the policy if he 
changed his mind. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the 
time, nor anything which shows that they misled or unfairly pressured Mr T into buying PPI 
here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr T aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, so they had to check it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr T was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and offered him more 
comprehensive cover, such as for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal 
pay or ran out. Mr T only had limited savings at the time, and in any case the PPI meant he 
could effectively protect those savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially 
needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. I understand Mr Ts family may have been 
happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And 
this mortgage was Mr Ts responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been 
suitable if Lloyds had recommended he rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, its 
worth bearing in mind that if Mr T had fallen behind on his mortgage he couldve lost his 
home. So in his circumstances, the PPI could have really been useful for him in protecting 
his home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr T about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. Instead, 
the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind. Here, 
it looks like Mr T chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of cover. As 
I explained above, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and 
it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy was 
competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr T could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Ive thought about the rules surrounding commission and profit share on PPI policies. 
But those rules only apply to agreements which started on or after 6 April 2007, or which 
started before then but were still running on 6 April 2008. Here, the agreement in question 
closed in 2003. So the rules about commission and profit share dont apply here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 November 2021. But neither party sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this policy to have 
been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman