DRN-3676321
The complaint
Mr U complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) decision to settle a 
claim, including a personal injury payment, under his wifes motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr U is a named driver on his wifes car insurance policy. In December 2020 when driving 
the car, he was involved in an accident. Mr U describes reversing at low speed into the path 
of the third party. No damage was caused to his car, but the tow bar caused damage to the 
third partys car. 
Mr U says the third party told him the repairs would cost around £800. And from his 
conversation he didnt think the other driver was injured. Mr U contacted Admiral to report 
the incident. In January 2021 it told him the claim had been settled at a cost of around 
£5,500. 
Mr U says Admiral didnt contact him prior to making this decision. He doesnt think the 
damage caused is consistent with the cost of repairs. Mr U also says Admiral didnt act in his 
best interests by paying a personal injury claim without challenging if this was genuine. 
Admiral says the repair costs are consistent with the damage caused and it wouldnt be able 
to dispute the personal injury claim. It says it settled the claim fairly. But paid Mr U £25 for a 
delay in responding to his complaint and £50 for a poorly worded email that it says 
incorrectly described the damage. 
Mr U didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says Admirals policy terms allow it to decide how to settle 
the claim. He thought it had handled the claim fairly and didnt think it needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr U disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read the records provided by Admiral. This includes the notes when Mr U first reported 
the accident. He describes the decision occurring at walking pace/hardly moving. The 
notes say Mr U thought he was partially to blame for the collision. Although I note in his 
complaint correspondence to our service, he accepts that he was at fault. This is how the 
claim was handled, with Mr U as the at-fault driver.
As there is no dispute from Mr U that he was at fault for the collision, I neednt consider this 
point further. My remit here is to consider whether Admiral was fair in how it settled the 
claim, including the costs involved. 
I have read Mr Us policy terms to understand whether it was fair for Admiral to settle the 
claim without involving Mr U. The terms, under the heading General Conditions say:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to:
-conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf 
This or similar is a common term found in most motor insurance policies. It means Admiral 
has a contractual right to settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need Mr Us consent or 
agreement to do this. Having said that, we still expect Admiral to handle the claim 
reasonably based on the facts and evidence. 
Ive seen the engineers report that details the damage caused to the third-partys car. The 
damaged areas match with Mr Us description of his tow bar causing damage to the near 
side of the other vehicle. Ive seen the photos provided with the report that show the damage 
to the near side panels. Again, this fits with the description of the accident and the damage 
that was caused. 
Based on the engineers report I think Admiral behaved fairly in authorising the repairs it 
confirmed were required due to the accident. I dont think the cost of the repairs has been 
shown to be unreasonable.  
I acknowledge Mr Us reference to the conversation he had with the third-party driver - when 
he told him the repairs would cost £800. I dont dispute his recollection of what the third-party 
said. But the damage was inspected by an engineer who gave a detailed account of the 
necessary repairs and what each component would cost along with the labour charge. I think 
the engineers assessment gave a more reliable estimate of the cost of repair work needed. 
I have thought about Mr Us concern that Admiral didnt challenge the third-partys claim for 
personal injury compensation. He says the speed at which the collision occurred was so 
slow that its unlikely that any injury could occur. Mr U says Admiral didnt ask for medical 
evidence in support of the injury sustained, but decided to settle the claim, without 
reasonable and proportionate enquiries.
We asked Admiral for details of the costs claimed by the third-partys insurer to include 
details of how the injury claim was assessed, and whether legal advice was sought. It says 
its expert claims handlers are trained and have the knowledge to deal with these matters. 
Admiral says in order to keep the claim costs low it provided a pre-medical offer, which was 
accepted. Ive copied an excerpt from its response below, which explains its rationale:
The level at which a court is willing to accept that an injury can occur in a collision is 
extremely low. If there is deemed to have been movement of the vehicle there is a likelihood 
that there was movement of the occupant and as such the courts are likely to then accept 
that an injury is possible. In this case the damage to [Mr Us] vehicle was enough to justify 
the injury stated by the [Mr U] and we would not have been able to dispute that such injury 
would have occurred. The injury claim has been dealt with by way of a direct low value offer, 
which we have done in order to limit the claim cost. Had we defended the claims further it is 
probable that we would also have incurred the costs of solicitors fees and medical expert 
report fees, which are likely to have outweighed any potential savings.     
I understand Mr Us disappointment that Admiral paid an injury claim, given the low speed of 
the collision and his view that no injury had occurred. I also note his view that Admiral didnt 
act in his best interests when settling the claim in this way. But having considered its 
rationale for making a pre-medical offer I disagree with Mr Us view. 
Admiral has expertise when dealing with insurance claims and an understanding of what a 
court will typically decide when a claim is disputed. I think its explanation is reasonable that 
in these circumstances a court would likely accept an injury was possible. It would cost more 
money to dispute the claim, with the likelihood that a court would rule in favour of the third-
party anyway. In the circumstances I think Admiral has shown it handled the claim fairly 
based on the facts and evidence and its understanding of previous cases outcomes decided 
in court.    
I acknowledge Mr Us comments that the incident was described incorrectly as rear impact 
damage. I agree this doesnt accurately describe the damage that was caused to the doors 
and wheel arch on the third partys car.  Admiral apologised in its final complaint response 
and paid £50 compensation for this inaccuracy. I think this was fair. 
Mr U says it took Admiral nine months to review and respond to his complaint. He says it 
wasnt a complicated issue and no explanation has been given for the delay. Mr U thinks the 
£25 compensation Admiral paid him for its poor complaint handling is insulting. 
Handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. While Im sorry to hear about the 
difficulty Mr U had in obtaining a response through Admirals complaints process, I cant 
consider this point here.
In summary I think Admiral treated Mr U fairly when relying on its policy terms and settling 
the claim in the way it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman