DRN-3627460
The complaint
Miss H complains about a decision taken by Caxton FX Ltd (Caxton) to not refund (in full or 
in part) a transaction she disputed, and still disputes.
What happened
Miss H held an e-money prepaid card card with Caxton. The card was used to hold funds 
to be able to pay for items in different currencies. These types of cards are generally used 
when travelling abroad.
On 27 January 2019 Miss Hs card was debited with the sum of £969.24 in respect of flights 
she had purchased from a travel company that I will call K.
Shortly after the sum of £969.24 was debited to her card, Miss H complained to K. However, 
K said it had done nothing wrong and it wouldnt be making any refund to her.
At around the same time, or shortly after, Miss H disputed the transaction with Caxton on the 
grounds it was fraudulent. However, Caxton advised Miss H that it didnt agree this was the 
case and that her claim in this respect had been rejected.
On 6 April 2019 Miss H disputed the transaction with Caxton on the grounds that her card 
had been debited with a sum in excess of what she understood it should have been debited 
with.
On 8 April 2019 Caxton, in order to consider Miss Hs claim further, requested further 
information from her.
On 9 April 2019 Caxton confirmed to Miss H again it needed further information from her 
before it could take her payment dispute any further.
On 28 June 2019 Miss H contacted Caxton to complain about how her claim had been, or 
was being, handled. Caxton responded the next day to say it stood by its decision to not 
treat the transaction as fraud but to treat it (after 7 April 2019) as a goods services dispute. It 
then went on to say that as it hadnt been provided with the further information it had 
requested on 8 (and 9) April 2019 so it was now too late to raise a chargeback on her behalf.
On 11 August 2020 Miss H responded to Caxtons 9 April 2019 correspondence to say she 
was still looking to have a chargeback raised on her behalf.
On 2 September 2020 Miss H asked Caxton to provide her with a chargeback form for her to 
complete.
On 10 September 2020 Caxton asked Miss H for more information in respect of her 
transaction dispute. Miss H provided this information the same day and then chased Caxton 
for an update on 16 September 2021 and 5 January 2022.
In April 2021 Caxton contacted Miss H to say that it was too late to raise a chargeback (on 
her behalf) in respect of the sum debited to her card in January 2019. But for not 
acknowledging her (16) September 2020 correspondence, it was prepared to pay her £50.
In May and June 2021 Caxton contacted Miss H to expand on what it had advised her 
previously.
Miss Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Caxton had done nothing wrong in not raising a chargeback on Miss Hs behalf and that by 
the time Miss H had got back in contact with it was too late to then do so. However, he said 
that Caxton should pay Miss H £50 for what it itself had accepted had been poor service on 
its part.
The investigator then went on to explain to Miss H that even had Caxton raised a 
chargeback he wasnt persuaded that it would have been successful.
Miss H didnt agree, so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to
what the investigator has already shared with Miss H.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. I would also add that 
because the background to this complaint is well known to both the parties, Ive confined 
myself above to a very brief summary of events.
One of the ways in which Caxton could have sought to recover the payment Miss H made, 
and which Im satisfied it was considering doing (at least after 7 April 2019) was using a 
method known as chargeback. A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes 
are resolved between card issuers and merchants. These disputes are dealt with through the 
relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances, the process provides a way for Caxton 
to ask for a payment Miss H made to be refunded. 
However, a chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. K would be entitled to defend any 
chargeback claim made by Caxton. And if it did so, the chargeback wouldnt succeed. Where 
a chargeback is defended, Caxton can ask for the card scheme to arbitrate in order to make 
a decision as to whether it ought to succeed or not. 
It's important to highlight that there is no obligation on Caxton to process a chargeback 
through the card scheme even where Miss H asks them to. However, I would consider it 
good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
In this case Caxton didnt submit a chargeback because without further information from 
Miss H (requested by it on 8 and 9 April 2019) it believed there were no grounds to do so, or 
that there was no reasonable prospect of success. And having considered what information Miss H had provided Caxton before September 2020, which was very limited to say the 
least, I agree.
Miss H submits that had Caxton explained the urgency of her supplying it with further 
information  in support of her claim  she would have done so. Now I cant say for certain 
whether Miss Hs submission in this respect is correct. But when Caxton asked Miss H for 
further information on 8 and 9 April 2019 she had in the region of 60 days in which to do so, 
sufficient time in my view. Furthermore, the first time Miss H went back to Caxton 
(after 9 April 2019) was 28 June 2019, some 80 days later and it was over a year before she 
provided Caxton with what it had requested she provide.
But even if I wasnt of the above view, like the investigator Im satisfied  having considered 
the information ultimately provided by Miss H to Caxton in September 2020 in support of her 
claim  a chargeback would have been defended by K and would have ultimately been 
unsuccessful.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Caxton did nothing wrong in not submitting a chargeback on 
Miss Hs behalf. However, like the investigator, I think its only fair and reasonable that 
Caxton pay Miss H £50 for not responding to her September 2020 correspondence, and 
which it agreed to do under cover of its correspondence dated April 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that Caxton FX Ltd must pay Miss H £50, as offered under its 
correspondence dated April 2021, but it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman