DRN-3251081
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him incorrect information 
about the early repayment charge (ERC) refund hed receive when he ported his 
mortgage to a new property.
What happened
Mr G and his ex-partner held a joint mortgage with Nationwide. At the time it was 
repaid the outstanding balance was split over a number of fixed rate products.
Mr G and his ex-partner separated and the mortgage was repaid in 
December 2019. Nationwide applied an ERC.
In April 2020 Mr G approached Nationwide for advice on taking out a mortgage to 
buy a new property. The adviser discussed Mr Gs options with him. She told Mr G 
that if he ported the mortgage hed held with his ex-partner, he would receive a 
refund of the ERC. At the time she calculated this to be approximately £6,055. She 
told Mr G this would be a better option than him taking a new mortgage on lower 
fixed rate.
Mr G decided to port the mortgage, and Nationwide issued a mortgage offer in 
June 2020. The offer was for Mr G to borrow a total of £180,000 over a term of 30 
years, split over the following ported rates:
4 year fixed rate of 1.99% until 31 October 2022
5 year fixed rate of 2.09% until 31 January 2024
5 year fixed rate of 2.29% until February 2024.
Mr Gs total monthly payment was £670.64.
Mr G was due to complete on his new property on 14 August 2020. On 3 
August 2020 Nationwide issued an ERC refund of £6,442.90 to Mr Gs 
solicitors.
Mr Gs solicitors contacted Nationwide to ask about the ERC refund theyd 
received. Nationwide told the solicitors the ERC refund should be split equally 
between Mr G and his ex-partner. Mr Gs ex-partner also said she thought she 
should receive half of the refund.
Mr G agreed to split the refund equally. He says he agreed to this at the time as he 
didnt want to hold up completion on his new property. He was unhappy that hed 
only received half the ERC refund hed been expecting, and he complained to 
Nationwide about what had happened.
Nationwide replied to Mr Gs complaint to say, in summary:
the adviser was correct to give advice on the basis Mr G would receive 
the full ERC refund;
Mr G didnt give any information about the arrangement with his ex-
partner at the time of the advice;
the distribution of the ERC refund was a legal matter and for the solicitors 
to decide  and Nationwide issued the refund to the solicitors in line with 
their process; and
Nationwide shouldnt have given any advice to Mr Gs solicitors about 
who should receive the refund.
They offered Mr G £100 for the upset hed experienced.
Mr G referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr 
G didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
review and a decision. He said if hed known he wouldnt have received the full ERC 
refund he would have taken a new mortgage at a lower rate instead of porting his 
previous mortgage.
During our investigation Nationwide offered to increase their offer to £250, and I put 
that offer to Mr G. But Mr G didnt accept this offer. He felt hed suffered a financial 
loss through not receiving the full refund hed expected. He explained that hed made 
commitments to the renovation of the property he was buying which he wouldnt have 
made if he hadnt expected the full ERC refund. So he felt he should receive more 
compensation.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2021. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  but possibly 
not in the way he expects. I dont think Nationwide have treated Mr G fairly, and I 
think they should do more to put things right. But I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to pay Mr G the extra ERC refund he was expecting. Ill explain why.
The processing of the ERC refund
Ive seen Nationwides internal process for how they arrange ERC refunds on joint 
mortgages, where one account holder is taking out a new mortgage. The process 
says that if the new mortgage isnt in the same name(s) as the previous mortgage, 
the ERC refund must be sent to the solicitors. So Im satisfied Nationwide followed 
their internal process when they sent the ERC refund to Mr Gs solicitors.
Nationwide says they shouldnt have given advice to the solicitors on how the ERC 
refund should have been split. And I agree. I think its a reasonable starting point that 
where an ERC is applied on repaying a joint mortgage, both parties would be entitled 
to a share of any refund. But of course, different arrangements may have made 
between the parties which Nationwide wouldnt have known about. So the refunds 
paid to the solicitors to distribute according to whats been agreed between the 
parties.I need to consider whether the advice Nationwide gave to the solicitors led directly to 
Mr G not receiving the full ERC refund. And I dont think it did. Ultimately how the 
refund was split was for Mr G and his ex-partner to decide between themselves. And 
Mr Gs ex-partner was clear in her contact with the solicitors that she wanted the ERC 
refund to be split equally. So, I think its unlikely Mr G would ever have received the 
full refund, even if Nationwide hadnt incorrectly offered their advice on how it should 
be split.
The advice
The adviser told Mr G hed receive the full ERC refund because he was porting the 
mortgage, and shes said the mortgage advice she gave was based on that. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr G to take this at face value, because he 
thought it was Nationwides decision to make.
However, the adviser should have known that in Mr Gs circumstances Nationwides 
process was to pay the ERC refund to the solicitors so it could be decided how it 
would be split between the two parties. And because the mortgage advice she gave 
was based on Mr G receiving the full refund, I think it was important for her to take 
this into account, to make sure she was giving accurate advice.
If the adviser had explained to Mr G that the ERC refund would go his solicitors 
pending an agreement about how it would be split, this would have put Mr G on 
notice that his ex- partner may be entitled to a proportion of the ERC refund, and 
may have prompted him to make arrangements with her. But because the adviser 
told him hed receive the full refund, I dont think this is something he would have 
thought he needed to arrange at the time.
So I do think the adviser made a mistake in the advice she gave Mr G. Where a 
business has made a mistake, our aim is to put the affected party in the position 
they would have been in if the mistake hadnt been made.
If Nationwides adviser had explained the process for the ERC refund at the time of 
the advice, its likely the way the ERC refund would be split would have been decided 
sooner than it was. But from what Ive seen I think its likely the outcome would have 
been the same, and it would have been split equally between Mr G and his ex-
partner. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Nationwide to compensate Mr G 
as if he would have received the full ERC refund, since he would never have received 
the full amount even had the advice been different.
Ive looked at what, if anything, I think Mr G would have done differently if hed known 
he may not receive the full ERC refund at the time of the advice. Mr G said he would 
have taken a new, lower rate instead of porting his mortgage. So Ive looked at the 
other fixed rates available at the time. But I dont think Mr G would have been better 
off if hed taken out a new rate.
Ive included a table to compare the monthly payment of the rates available at the 
time to Mr Gs monthly payment of £670.64.
Period of fixed 
rateRate Monthly 
paymentProduct fee Notional saving 
(over fixed rate 
period)2 years 1.59% £629.02 £999 (£41.62 x 24) -
£999 = -£0.12
No saving
2 years 2.04% £668.92 No fee (£1.72x24) =
£41.28 saving
3 years 1.89% £655.46 £999 (£15.18x36) -
£999
= -£452.52
No saving
5 years 1.89% £655.46 £999 (£15.18 x60) -
£999 = -£88.20
No saving
3 years 2.09% £673.45 No fee 0  higher 
monthly payment 
than porting
5 years 2.09% £673.45 No fee 0  higher 
monthly payment 
than porting
There were slightly lower fixed rates available at the time, but most of these carried 
a £999 product fee  which would have offset any saving Mr G would have made 
on his monthly payment over the term.
The only available rate at the time which would have worked out cheaper for Mr G 
than porting his existing mortgage was a two-year fixed rate of 2.04%. This would 
have saved him around £1.72 a month, and around £41.28 over the fixed rate term.
But if Mr G had chosen to take this rate, he wouldnt have received an ERC refund at 
all. And the ERC refund of around £3,221 outweighs the saving he would have made. 
So overall I dont think Mr G would have made different choices about his mortgage 
rate if Nationwide hadnt made a mistake.
However, Nationwides mistake has caused trouble and upset to Mr G and I think 
they should put this right. Mr G says he included the full ERC refund in his budget 
for renovating his new property, and when he only received half of what he expected 
he had to borrow extra money from other sources, including his family. He also said 
the mistakes had a financial impact on him because he made commitments to the 
renovation in the expectation of receiving the full ERC refund which he wouldnt 
have done otherwise  such as choosing a more expensive window option than he 
would otherwise have chosen, and getting additional work done on the roof.
I can see how disappointing it would have been for Mr G to find out he had 
significantly less money available to renovate his property than hed expected, shortly 
before he was due to complete on his purchase. From the paperwork hes provided 
he was obtaining quotes for the renovation in July 2020, so the work could go ahead 
as soon as he completed. I havent seen anything to show he made a financial 
commitment to the work hed planned before he found out about the mistake with the 
ERC refund  but I can see how it would be difficult and embarrassing to backtrack 
on work hed already agreed to have carried out because of an unexpected change of 
budget.
Ive taken this into account and thought carefully about it in considering what the 
impact of Nationwides mistake was on Mr G. And think Nationwide should pay Mr 
G £500 for the trouble and upset hes experienced.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr Gs hoping for and Im sorry to disappoint 
him. But I think £500 is fair, reasonable and in line with awards weve made in 
similar circumstances. And I think it recognises the significant impact Nationwides 
mistake had on Mr G.
I provisionally decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint and that Nationwide should pay him £500. 
I asked both parties to reply with anything they wished to add before I issued my final 
decision.
Nationwide replied to say they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
he thinks £500 is too low  he received half of the refund he was told hed receive 
and hes now in debt because he used the full amount hed expected in his budget 
for the work on his house;
his complaints identified a loophole in Nationwides process but its only cost them 
£500;
Ive used similar circumstances to decide on an award, but each case should be 
considered on its own merits; and
he thinks Nationwide should meet him at least half way by refunding half the amount 
he expected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G feels strongly about his complaint. Ive explained in my provisional 
decision why I dont think he would ever have received the full ERC refund. And he hasnt 
said anything in his response to make me think differently. 
Theres no dispute that Mr G received half the refund he was told hed receive when he 
applied for his mortgage, and I understand he used the full amount in initially planning his 
budget for his new property. If Nationwide hadnt made a mistake Mr G would have known 
his actual budget earlier on in the process. But if he needed a higher budget to complete the 
work, he would always have had to find the extra money from sources other than the ERC 
refund. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything that shows Mr G had made a 
financial commitment of the full amount of his expected budget before he found out hed 
have less than he expected. Im also mindful that this was before he bought the house, and 
so the work hed budgeted for hadnt yet started when he found out how much he would 
actually receive as an ERC refund. 
So, I think he did have an opportunity to re-think how hed allocate his actual budget once 
hed found out hed receive less than hed expected, and before the work on the house 
started. 
As Ive mentioned, I appreciate that the unexpected change in Mr Gs budget, which he 
found out about shortly before completion, would have caused him disappointment and 
upset. And I think Nationwide should pay him compensation of £500 for this.I should clarify that when I refer to awards made in similar circumstances, Im referring to 
circumstances where the impact of an error is at a similar level to the impact Nationwides 
error had on Mr G. Im not referring to the facts of his complaint, which are of course 
individual to his complaint. 
Putting things right
I provisionally decided that Nationwide should pay Mr G £500 to put things right.
I havent seen anything to change my decision that this amount is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, is that I 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr G £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman