DRN-3475253
The complaint
Mr A and Ms A complain about the notice given to Ms A when Nationwide Building Society 
closed their joint savings account.
What happened
Mr A and Ms A held a joint savings account with Nationwide. Nationwide carried out a review 
and decided to close all of Mr As accounts  including the joint savings account he held with 
Ms A. Nationwide gave Mr A appropriate notice; but failed to give Ms A the same notice. 
Ms A was also concerned about not being eligible to receive shareholder benefits because 
Nationwide closed the savings account.
Our investigator thought Nationwide were entitled to close the account, but thought they 
should have given Ms A the same 60 days notice they gave Mr A. He explained that it was 
evident Ms A didnt often use the account, and it was only used to receive benefit payments, 
with no withdrawals being made. He did recognise Ms A received poor customer service 
when she phoned Nationwide to find out what was happening, however, he considered the 
£100 compensation which Nationwide had offered, and Ms A had accepted, was enough in 
the circumstances.
Ms A remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide, like all UK building societies, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Nationwide were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mr As accounts. 
Nationwide will often review accounts  its their duty to ensure accounts are being used in 
the way they should be, and to protect the money held in them. As Ms A held a joint account 
with Mr A, it follows that if Nationwide review Mr As account, Ms A could be impacted by the 
outcome of that review  and vice versa.
At times, following a review, Nationwide sometimes choose to end the relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, and Im pleased Nationwide told Mr A 
and Ms A that the reason for closure in this case is because Mr A fell outside of their risk 
appetite. Like our investigator explained, that doesnt mean Mr A has acted in an illicit way, 
or necessarily done anything wrong. It is up to each building society to decide who they wish 
to offer their services too  and in this case, Mr A fell outside of their customer base. Im 
satisfied overall that Nationwides decision to close the account was fair.
Having considered the circumstances of whats happened here, I consider Nationwide were 
only entitled to close the account with appropriate notice. And while I recognise Nationwide 
gave Mr A the full notice; they failed to reflect that with Ms A.  
Ive thought carefully about the impact this has had on Ms A; alongside what I consider Ms A 
would have done differently if she had been given the appropriate notice. Ive seen that she 
had to arrange for her child benefit payments to be paid to a different account  however, I 
consider this would have been required with or without notice, and I havent seen any 
evidence of financial loss in this regard.
Ive then thought about the phone call Ms A held with Nationwide regarding the closure, and 
the customer service she received as part of it. Im aware Ms A was kept on hold for around 
20 minutes in error  but the basis of the conversation was Nationwide explaining why they 
closed the account and that was because of the joint status with Mr A.
Overall, I consider Nationwides offer of £100 compensation to recognise their error of not 
giving Ms A appropriate notice and leaving her on hold for around 20 minutes during a 
phone call is reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, I wont be asking them to pay 
anything more. 
Ive also considered Ms As concerns around the status of her membership with Nationwide 
and whether shed be entitled to receive shareholder benefits. Ive seen from the final 
response letter Nationwide sent Ms A, that they have kept her benefits the same  and 
therefore, her shareholder benefits havent been impacted, despite them closing the 
account.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman