DRN-3910286
The complaint
Ms G complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) unfairly declined a 
subsidence claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Ms G holds a buildings insurance policy with UKI. She made a claim on the policy for 
damage caused by subsidence which UKI declined. It said it accepted the damage was 
caused by subsidence, but said the policy excluded damage caused by faulty design. It 
thought the design was faulty because the extension foundations didnt meet the building 
regulations in place at the time. It thought the foundations were too shallow when taking into 
account a nearby oak tree.
Ms G didnt agree and complained. She said the extension passed all planning permissions 
and was signed off by the local council. So, she thought this showed it did meet the 
regulations in place at the time. She also complained about communication throughout the 
claim.
UKI didnt change its stance on the claim, but it did acknowledge it couldve communicated 
with Ms G better. It offered her £100 compensation.
Ms G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He thought UKI was unfairly relying on 
the faulty design clause. He thought this because he didnt think UKI had shown the design 
didnt meet regulations at the time. And he thought the extension had stood the test of time  
standing for 20 years without issue. He recommended UKI consider the claim without relying 
on the faulty design exclusion and pay Ms G a further £250 compensation for the delays 
caused by unfairly relying on this term.
Ms G agreed. UKI didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the damage caused to Ms Gs property is caused by 
subsidence. Nor is it in dispute that subsidence is covered in her policy with UKI. So, 
I need not focus on that. I only need focus on whats in dispute.
UKI says Ms G isnt covered for any damage caused a result of faulty design. Thats 
true and clearly set out in her policy. UKI thinks is fair to apply that term because it 
thinks the foundations of the extension are too shallow. It says the relevant 
regulation, BS 8004, hasnt been met, because essentially, the foundations didnt 
adequately take into account the roots of a nearby oak tree. It says the tree is 
mature, so the root system would have already been established at the time the 
extension was built in 2000. It says roots were found to a depth of 1500mm, so thinks 
the foundations should have been deeper than this.
BS 8004 recommends foundations should be at a depth of a minimum of 900mm. But 
is says where vegetation is concerned, this should be considered and that depths 
greater than 900mm should be considered. But, BS 8004 doesnt specify what those 
depths should be.
Ms Gs foundations for the extension are 1100mm. I appreciate this is not as deep as 
the tree roots themselves and I can appreciate UKIs argument that its not 
adequately taken into account the tree roots. But it does indicate the effect of the 
vegetation was considered, because theyre lower than the minimum recommended 
depth. Also, the extension passed planning permission and was signed off by 
building control. 
Whats more, I agree with our investigator that this design has stood the test of time 
for standing for roughly 20 years without issue. I take on board UKIs point on this 
matter  that this is very weather dependant  but I think over a 20-year period weve 
seen many types of weather over that period and all the reasonably foreseeable 
weather conditions have likely occurred within it. I think its more likely than not that if 
the foundations were inadequate, problems would have arisen during those 20 years. 
If the weather causing this issue  drought  was so severe the year that the 
subsidence occurred, then its more likely that, as opposed to any faulty design, that 
is the cause of the problem.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded that UKI has shown that the extension didnt 
meet the standards at the time. And so, it follows that I dont find its shown its fair to 
apply the faulty design exclusion.
UKI has offered £100 compensation. But I agree with our investigator that an 
additional £250 is due for the distress and inconvenience caused by the claim 
ongoing and the issue being unresolved.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to:
Reconsider Ms Gs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. For clarity it should 
not use the faulty design exclusion to decline this claim.
Pay Ms G £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman