DRN-3460412
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that her agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was terminated.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
In November 2021 Mrs M was adjudged bankrupt. She contacted Santander to let them 
know about the bankruptcy and said she wasnt struggling to make payments for the car. 
The adviser at Santander advised Mrs M that as long as the payments were kept up to date, 
the agreement would continue as normal.
In January 2022 Santander served a default notice on Mrs M. It said she had breached the 
terms of the agreement by being adjudged bankrupt. The default notice stated that the 
agreement would be terminated on 31 January 2022, and that Santander would recover the 
car and require immediate payment of the balance of the agreement.
In February 2022 Santander sent a notice of termination and asked Mrs M to contact them to 
arrange to return the car. Santander subsequently instructed agents to recover the car.
Mrs M telephoned Santander on 15 February 2022.She said she hadnt received the default 
notice. She explained the events leading up to her bankruptcy and said she wanted to keep 
the car and continue with payments under the agreement. Santander refused to reverse its 
decision to terminate the agreement.
Mrs M raised a complaint. In response, Santander said that the agreement had been 
terminated in line with the terms and conditions. It said the adviser had provided incorrect 
information when Mrs M was told that the agreement could continue so long as she kept her 
payments up to date. It offered £100 compensation for the incorrect information. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he said that Santander had acted within the 
terms of the agreement and was within its rights to terminate the agreement. He said that 
Santander should pay the compensation it had offered for giving incorrect information to Mrs 
M.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said she was able to afford the monthly payments and that by taking  
the car, Santander was putting her in a position where she could lose her job because she 
didnt live on a bus route and couldnt afford to take taxis.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. One of the terms states that Mrs M 
will not permit a petition for bankruptcy to be presented against her, or call a meeting with 
creditors or reach any agreement with creditors.
I can see that a bankruptcy order was made against Mrs M on 15 November 2021.
Mrs M has said that, despite her bankruptcy, she was told by an adviser at Santander that as 
long as she kept up payments under the agreement, the agreement could continue.
Santander acknowledged that this advice was incorrect. It says that the bankruptcy order 
against Mrs M entitled it to terminate the agreement in line with the terms and conditions.
Ive reviewed the default notice and the letter of termination issued by Santander. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im unbale to say that Santander has acted outside of the terms and 
conditions, or that it has failed to follow the correct procedure to terminate the agreement. 
Because a bankruptcy order was made against Mrs M, Santander was entitled to terminate 
the agreement.
I understand why Mrs M feels so disappointed about whats happened. Because of the 
incorrect information which was given to her, she had a false expectation that she could 
continue with the agreement and keep the car. I appreciate that Mrs M relies heavily on the 
car and I dont doubt that not having a car will have a significant impact on her day to day 
life.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Santander has terminated the 
agreement unfairly. I cant require Santander to reverse its decision. However, Santander 
gave incorrect information to Mrs M and I think its right that it pays compensation for this. 
The sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman