DRN-2363036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as The Woolwich) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R bought a PPI policy in 1999 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 
one of the banks branches. It gave them protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say they cant recall the sale in much detail, but they were told they were more 
likely to get the mortgage if they had PPI. I cant know what was said in the meeting and 
Barclays no longer has all the paperwork from the sale. But thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. Barclays says Mr and Mrs R would have 
had to complete a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI and return a PPI proposal form 
for the cover to be set up. This suggests it would have been presented as a separate 
product and they would have had to agree to take it out. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Rs 
comments carefully, but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how what 
might affect what they recall. On balance, I think its more likely Barclays made it clear the 
PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R chose to take it out.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check it was suitable
for them. Ive looked carefully at their circumstances at the time and I think it was. I say this
because:
They met the policy requirements, so they were eligible for the cover.
Mr R was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, Mrs 
R cant recall her entitlement. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work 
benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful claim. They had savings worth 
less than 3 months salary. The PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover 
other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs R were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period of time 
secured against their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs R if they were sick or 
lost their job(s).
There wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr or Mrs R to claim 
as it seems they werent affected by the main exclusions or limitations.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable and it was a reasonable cost 
for the benefit offered. 
Overall, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R.
Barclays also had to give Mr and Mrs R information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that they could make an informed choice about the policy. Its possible they didnt have
everything they needed. But for the same reasons that I found the policy was suitable, I dont 
think they wouldve decided not to take out this policy if better information had been 
provided. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
In response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs R sent in documentation saying it shows a 
lot of products were recommended and sold to them. The document is a summary of their 
borrowing and protection needs that Barclays discussed with them, and I can see PPI is 
included. But theres nothing in this information that changes my conclusion that their policy 
wasnt mis-sold for the reasons set out above. 
I note Barclays offered Mr and Mrs R £50 to compensate for its poor complaint handling at 
the start of the process. If this has not yet been paid to them, Barclays should now make that 
payment.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman