DRN-3229266
The complaint
Miss P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt remove the charge after she repaid her 
mortgage. This caused problems when she tried to sell the property. Miss P asks for 
compensation of £10,000 to £15,000. 
What happened
Miss P had a mortgage from a lender which is now part of the Lloyds group. The mortgage 
charge should have been removed when the mortgage loan was repaid in about 1999. 
Miss P was in the process of selling her property in February 2021. Her solicitor told her that 
Lloyds had a charge on the property. Miss P says she was terrified Lloyds would claim she 
hadnt repaid the mortgage. She says her buyer walked away. 
Miss P says she was in financial hardship and relying on the money from the sale to finance 
her future. She had to borrow from an ex-colleague to pay the costs of extending the 
propertys lease. 
Lloyds removed the charge within a few days of Miss P contacting it. Lloyds paid £400 for 
Miss Ps upset and about £2,500 towards her legal costs, mostly related to the lease 
extension. Miss P says this isnt enough.
Our investigator said while Lloyds made an error when it didnt remove the charge, it 
corrected this quickly when told about the error. He said Lloyds wasnt responsible for the 
buyer walking away. The investigator said the compensation paid by Lloyds was fair.
Miss P didnt agree. She said Lloyds contributed to the problems because:
She wouldnt have lost the buyer if it hadnt been for Lloyds error.
The loss of the sale caused her financial distress.
She wasnt confident the person she spoke to in Lloyds overseas call centre understood 
the problem. She had to call a second time. On the second call a complaint was made so 
that the matter would be escalated.
While Lloyds was confident the charge hadnt been fully removed due to an error, she 
wasnt. This could have had huge consequences that she was terrified of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P had a mortgage from a lender which is now part of the Lloyds group. The mortgage 
charge should have been removed when the mortgage loan was repaid in about 1999. It 
wasnt removed, and in fact the charge was reapplied in favour of Lloyds in 2007. The 
reasons for this arent clear, but it was certainly an error.
The error didnt cause any problems for many years. Miss P didnt try to sell or mortgage the 
property. And she wasnt worried about the charge  she didnt know it was there.
When Miss P found out about the charge she was trying to sell the property. This was a 
particularly stressful time for Miss P. She was in financial hardship and needed the money 
from the sale. She was worried that the charge would prevent or delay the sale, or that 
Lloyds would say she owed it money.
Miss P found out about the error on 11 February 2021 and contacted Lloyds the next day. 
On 15 February 2021 Lloyds told Miss P it had removed the charge.
While Miss P says Lloyds didnt take the matter seriously I dont think thats fair. Its clear 
from recordings of Miss Ps calls with Lloyds that Miss P was very upset and worried. I think 
Lloyds made an effort to understand Miss Ps circumstances and the effect the error had on 
her. I think Lloyds was right to act promptly to remove the charge and to pay compensation. 
Miss P wasnt confident the first person she spoke to (based in an overseas call centre) 
understood the problem. She called again. We cant know whether the problem would have 
been sorted out without the second call, but I can understand that Miss P wanted to ensure 
her problem had been understood. 
Miss P says the error had repercussions for which she hasnt been compensated fairly. 
Miss P says her sale fell through due to the charge on the property title. I should say here 
that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss P says her buyer was or had been her tenant in the property. The buyer was from 
overseas and not familiar with the English leasehold system. From what Miss P says legal 
work for the sale had been going on for several months, which suggests the buyer had legal 
advice. Miss P says shed told the buyer she didnt have a mortgage, and I can understand 
this might have caused embarrassment and undermined the buyers trust in Miss P. But 
charges on property titles arent unusual  many owners have mortgages in place when they 
sell a property. If the charge was of concern, Id have expected the buyers solicitor to have 
raised the matter sooner.
Usually, the loan secured by the charge is repaid from the sales proceeds. The situation was 
different here as there was no loan to repay. While sorting this out could have caused delays 
to the sale, the charge was in fact removed within a few days.
Miss P said shed told the buyer the lease would be extended before the sale of the property. 
Copies of the property title show that the charge was removed from the property title before 
the lease was extended. I cant see how the charge could have caused delays to the lease 
extension. I dont think the error with the charge delayed completion of the sale. 
In the circumstances, it seems unlikely Lloyds error with the charge was the reason for the 
buyer pulling out. Miss P hasnt provided evidence to demonstrate that this was the case.
Miss P says she told her buyer shed extend the lease before selling the property to her. 
Miss P said after the sale fell through, she had to extend her lease in order to borrow money 
secured on the property. Either way, the fact that there was only a short period remaining on 
the lease, and that this needed to be extended for the property to be sold or mortgaged, wasnt due to any error by Lloyds. 
When Miss P told Lloyds on 15 February shed incurred additional legal fees due to the 
charge on the property title Lloyds immediately reimbursed these costs. I dont think Lloyds 
was responsible for Miss Ps sale falling through. It follows that I dont think Lloyds is 
responsible for any financial loss or financial distress this caused Miss P. 
However, Lloyds error did cause Miss P upset and inconvenience. Miss P says due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic she had no income from her business, which is now in liquidation, and 
was in financial difficulty. She says she received no support from the Government. Miss P 
says she was relying on raising funds by selling the property or raising finance against it. 
When Miss P found out about the charge, she was in the process of trying to sell the 
property and extend the lease  both of which can be difficult and stressful. Its clear from 
the call recordings how very upset and worried Miss P was when she found out about the 
charge. I do appreciate that Miss Ps circumstances at that time were distressing, but this 
wasnt due to Lloyds error. While its right that Lloyds took Miss Ps circumstances into 
account so that it could understand the effect its error had on her, in fairness, I can only ask 
Lloyds to pay compensation for the additional upset caused by its error.
Miss P says after being told about the charge, she was terrified of the possible 
consequences. She says any papers she might have had from when she repaid the 
mortgage were in storage. However, there was no suggestion in the calls Miss P had with 
Lloyds that it thought she owed it any money or that it wouldnt remove the charge. Lloyds 
removed the charge on 15 February 2021  the first working day after it was told about it. 
Lloyds paid £400 to Miss P for her upset and inconvenience. It paid about £2,500 towards 
her legal costs. £600 was to cover legal costs related to the charge and delays caused by 
this. About £1,900 was for her legal costs for extending the lease  something Miss P would 
have had to do regardless of Lloyds error. I know that Miss P feels more compensation is 
warranted, and it's difficult to find an amount that Miss P will feel satisfied with and which is 
fair to both parties. Taking everything into account, I think the compensation paid by Lloyds 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the action taken 
and compensation paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman