DRN-3849133
The complaint
Mr G complains about the performance of his personal pension plan with Scottish Widows 
Limited.
What happened
In 2012 Mr G joined a group personal pension plan with Scottish Widows, with contributions 
paid by him and his employer.
In 2019 he was sent a letter asking him to review his retirement choices. The letter 
suggested that he speak to a financial adviser before making any decision. At that time, the 
value of his pension was £187,559. Details were also sent to a financial adviser.
Further letters were sent in 2021 advising Mr G that he was approaching his retirement date 
and asking him to consider his retirement options. He was told that if he didnt reply by 19 
August 2021 (his retirement date) Scottish Widows would extend his retirement age to 75, 
but he could still take his pension at any time.
In August 2021 Mr G received an annual statement which showed the pensions value was 
£205,946. 
In the annual statement Mr G received in 2022 the value had fallen to £161,447 and his 
retirement date was now at age 75.
Mr G complained that the value of his pension had fallen by around 20% and that his 
retirement age had been changed to 75 but Scottish Widows didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said the pension was invested with a Lifestyle strategy which was 
designed to switch to lower risk funds as he approached retirement age; investment values 
were not guaranteed and could go up or down; and the performance was due to falls in the 
market, not because of any mismanagement.
When Mr G brought his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said:
Scottish Widows had sent information to Mr G about his pension, including annual 
statements, and had told him his retirement age would be changed if it didnt hear 
from him.
Although the retirement age had been changed, Mr G could still take his benefits at 
any time.
The pension was invested in cash and in the Pension Protector, which were low risk 
investments, and Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for the drop in value.
Mr G disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. He consulted a financial adviser 
who provider further comments. Another investigator reviewed these points but they also 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was a member of a group personal pension. Scottish Widows was chosen by his 
employer to provide this plan, which Mr G chose to join. Scottish Widows is the provider but 
it wasnt responsible for the sale of the pension or for giving Mr G any advice on what was 
suitable for him. 
Information sent to Mr G said his funds were invested in a Balanced Pension Approach but 
this would change as he neared his retirement age, with funds being moved to the Pension 
Protector and cash fund. As our investigator has explained, this was in line with a lifestyle 
approach, where investments are moved to lower risk funds, with the aim of providing some 
security against the risk of equities falling significantly in the period leading up to retirement.
From 2019 onwards, Mr G was sent letters asking him to consider his retirement options. He 
was also told his retirement age would be deferred if he didnt reply. Information was also 
sent to a financial adviser, though its not clear if Mr G sought any advice at that point. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr G in September 2021 advising him of the change in his 
retirement date. So he was made aware of this. And it didnt prevent him from taking his 
pension benefits before then if he wished.
Looking at all the information provided, Im satisfied Mr G was given clear information about 
his pension. I appreciate that his financial adviser has commented on the poor performance 
of the funds. But as Ive said, Scottish Widows didnt give Mr G any advice on where to 
invest or whether these funds would be suitable for him. Its role was limited to administering 
the pension and providing information to Mr G, which it did.
Mr G says the name Pension Protector is misleading. But its not suggested the capital in 
the fund is protected or guaranteed - although its an investment fund for a cautious investor, 
the information provided made it clear values could go up or down. 
I appreciate it was very disappointing for Mr G to see the value of his pension fall, but values 
were subject to market changes. In any event it was open to Mr G to change his fund choice 
at any time, and the letters from Scottish Widows advised him to obtain financial advice if he 
needed to.
Mr Gs financial adviser has said Scottish Widows has not acted in line with the Consumer 
Duty. This is a new duty being introduced to set clearer standards but is not yet in force and 
would not apply here.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman