DRN-4215334
The complaint
Mr H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his 
buildings insurance policy following bad weather.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In January 2023, Mr Hs tenant let him know water was entering the building through 
the roof. He got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim.
Fairmead arranged an inspection of the damage in March 2023 and declined the 
claim shortly after. It said the damage had been caused by general wear and tear 
and the failure of sealant or grout  neither of which is covered by the policy. It 
accepted there had been a delay and offered £100 compensation.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted reasonably when it declined the claim 
for the roof damage. But she thought recent rainfall had caused damage internally 
and this part of the claim should be accepted. She also said Fairmead should 
increase the compensation to a total of £300.
Mr H broadly accepted what our investigator said. Fairmead didnt. It said the internal 
photos showed mould, black staining and bubbling, so the damage had been 
ongoing for some time and would have been visible to the tenant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by storm and/or accidental damage. Ill consider 
the external and internal damage in turn.
Fairmead seems to have accepted there were storm conditions at the relevant time. 
The question is whether those conditions are likely to have been the primary cause of 
the damage to the roof.
To answer that question, Ive considered the available evidence. Thats the report 
and comments from Fairmeads inspection. Whilst Mr H had a roofer visit, he hasnt 
been able to provide any comments from them for me to consider.
Fairmead says the ridge tiles next to the chimney have lifted and allowed water to get 
into the building  and thats more akin to wear and tear than storm damage. Looking 
at the photos, some cracking can be seen to these tiles. Im not persuaded thats 
likely to have been caused by the storm as strong winds dont usually cause this kind 
of damage. So Im satisfied Fairmeads view on the cause of the roof damage is 
reasonable and this part of the claim can fairly be declined.
The policy doesnt define the phrase accidental damage. In my view, the ordinary, 
everyday meaning of it is something unforeseen and unintentional. The policy 
excludes any damage caused gradually, such as wear and tear. Ive thought about 
the nature of the internal damage and whether its covered by the policy based on the 
evidence available.
Fairmeads report noted internal water damage as a result of rain penetration. 
Photos taken by Mr H close to the time of the storm show water damage that looks 
recent and fresh  and was likely caused by the rainfall during and shortly after the 
storm. I recognise later photos taken by Fairmead show darker staining and mould 
more commonly found with ongoing problems  but this seems to be the result of 
taking the photos around six weeks after the water entered the building. Because of 
that, Im satisfied the water damage caused by rainfall entering the building amounts 
to accidental damage and is covered by the policy. To put things right, Fairmead 
should accept the claim for that damage.
Any damage caused by the failure of sealant or grout around the floor level can be 
excluded as the policy doesnt cover damage caused this way.
Fairmead accepted it caused an avoidable delay inspecting the damage and offered 
£100 compensation. Bearing this delay in mind  and the delay in dealing with the 
internal damage caused by unfairly declining it  Im satisfied our investigators 
suggestion to increase compensation to a total of £300 is a reasonable one. If 
Fairmead has already paid the initial £100, it need only pay a further £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim for internal damage caused by rainfall.
Pay a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman