The complaint
Miss K complains HSBC UK Bank Plc provided her with no assistance when she was facing 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss K took a personal loan from HSBC in April 2017. Miss Ks first payment was due in 
June 2017, but she stopped working around this time to care for her Mother, who was 
unwell. So the account immediately fell into arrears.
HSBC sent Miss K arrears notices in July and December 2017. Miss K made some adhoc 
payments but wasnt meeting her monthly contractual payments, so her arrears increased. 
Miss K called HSBC in December 2017 to increase to her overdraft - this was declined. She 
was transferred to HSBCs Financial Guidance Team (FGT) but the call was disconnected.
HSBC sent Miss K a default notice in January 2018 informing her she had until the end of 
the month to pay her arrears. Miss K didnt repay the arrears so in March 2018 HSBC wrote 
to her to say they had registered a default. On her credit file against the account. In the 
following months Miss K made more adhoc payments but continued to accrue arrears.
Miss K called HSBC in July 2018 to discuss repaying her arrears as she was in work again 
she now had about six months of arrears. HSBC completed a review of Miss Ks income and 
expenditure, but no repayment plan was agreed. Miss K made more adhoc repayments but 
as she still was not meeting her monthly payments her arrears increased again.
Miss K spoke to HSBC again in October 2018 and made a payment to reduce her arrears to 
around five monthly payments.  An income and expenditure review showed
Miss Ks disposable income had increased - so she could afford to meet her monthly 
contractual payments and repay her arrears. HSBC set up a standing order for Miss K to 
begin making monthly payments from November 2018. They discussed repaying the arrears 
in instalments, but Miss K wanted to pay them off in one lump sum as she was expecting 
some money from a relative. Miss K said she could do this by the end of November 2018  
which HSBC agreed to.
Miss K didnt make her contractual payments in November and December 2018 and didnt 
pay her arrears before the agreed date. HSBC closed her account and sold her debt to a 
third party.
Miss K said HSBC hadnt offered her any help when she was in financial difficulty, and if they 
had her account wouldn't have been defaulted or closed. She said HSBC closed her account 
when she reached six months of arrears but was told this wouldnt happen unless it reached 
seven months.
DRN-1221480Our Investigator didnt think we should uphold Miss Ks complaint. Miss K didnt agree. She 
was unhappy our investigator hadnt been able to listen to a call between her and HSBC in 
July 2018. She felt if theyd offered help in this call, she couldve avoided her account being 
closed. 
The case has now been passed to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses do have a duty to consider circumstances of financial hardship 
positively and fairly. By this I mean Id expect to see the business had contacted the account 
holder at different points. Id also expect a meaningful discussion to take place about how 
the account can run going forward, whilst considering the account holders circumstances. I 
have to decide whether HSBC did so in Miss Ks case and I think they did. So Im not 
upholding the complaint. I know Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But Ill explain 
why.
We wouldnt usually consider it inappropriate of a business to default an account when its 
apparent their relationship with a consumer had broken down. An indicator of this, as set out 
by the Information Commissioners Office guidance, might be when the account is three to 
six months in arrears and no formal repayment plan has been agreed - and I think this is 
what happened between Miss K and HSBC.
Miss K began accruing arrears from her first scheduled payment in June 2017. HSBC wrote 
to Miss K in June, July and December 2017 about her arrears and included contact details to 
discuss this with them. HSBCs system notes say Miss K did contact them in
December 2017, and she was transferred through to their FGT, but the call was terminated 
before she could speak to them  and I cant see she tried to call back. 
HSBC sent Miss K a default notice in January 2018 warning what would happen if she didnt 
repay her arrears, including the account being defaulted. The letter again included contact 
details to discuss repayment options with HSBC. But I cant see she did. HSBC tried to 
engage with Miss K but they hadnt heard from her, and the arrears werent repaid. So, they 
defaulted her account. I dont think this was unreasonable.
I appreciate what Miss K said about the challenges she faced at the time, and I was sorry to 
hear her Mother was unwell. But I think HSBC did try to offer help before Miss Ks account 
was defaulted on several occasions - but they heard nothing back from her.
Miss K is unhappy HSBC have been unable to provide calls from July 2018. But Im satisfied 
I have enough information from both parties to decide what is likely to have happened at the 
time.
HSBCs system notes say Miss K called in July 2018 to discuss a repayment plan. The 
income and expenditure review HSBC completed with Miss K shows she could afford to start 
making her monthly payments. HSBC also included figures for repaying her arrears off 
monthly. But added to her contractual and other monthly commitments it only left her with a 
disposable income of about £111. So I think its more likely than not, HSBC wouldnt have been able to agree a repayment plan for her arrears as it would have left her with a low 
disposable income.
HSBC said its likely they were unable to offer Miss K other options to repay the arrears due 
to the amount she owed at the time - around six monthly payments. By July 2018 Miss K 
also hadnt met her monthly payments on time for over a year. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable they were unable to offer her other options to repay the arrears.
Miss K said if HSBC had offered help during this call the account wouldnt have closed  but 
I dont agree. Miss Ks income and expenditure showed she could afford to make her 
monthly contractual payments. So, if she had begun making these again at the time her 
arrears wouldnt have increased. But she didnt, they did increase and by October 2018 they 
totalled seven months. HSBC agreed Miss K could make a payment later in October 2018 to 
avoid her account being closed, and they arranged another call to explore repayment 
options with Miss K. Ive listened to this call.
An income and expenditure review showed her disposable income had increased to around 
£2,000 per month. So she was no longer in financial difficulty. HSBC told Miss K her latest 
payment reduced her arrears to five months and that her first monthly payment would come 
out around 1 November 2018. They warned Miss K the arrears would increase again if she 
missed monthly payments and the account would be closed if they reached a total of seven 
months. 
HSBC said they couldnt offer a payment break but did offer to allow Miss K to pay off her 
arrears in instalments. Miss K now had enough disposable income to make the monthly 
payments and begin repaying the arrears, so I dont think this was unreasonable. Miss K 
said she would prefer to pay it off in a lump sum but needed about a month for the money to 
arrive. HSBC agreed she could do this and gave her until the end of November 2018  which 
was around six weeks. So I think they did offer help to Miss K.
Miss K didnt make her monthly payments in November or December 2018 and didnt repay 
the arrears by the agreed date. When she missed Decembers payment her arrears totalled 
seven months and I cant see she made HSBC aware of any problems in making the 
payments. So she hadnt done what was agreed. HSBC had made her aware of what would 
happen if her arrears totalled seven months  and they told her when the payments were 
coming out of her account.
So I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to close the account and I wont be asking them to do 
anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc is not required 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.Michael Baronti
Ombudsman