DRN-4418609
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (R&SA) have handled their 
subsidence claim on their home insurance policy poorly. They say this has caused them 
severe distress and inconvenience along with financial loss. This decision covers the events 
that have happened from when they first made their claim up to February 2023. 
Any reference to R&SA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O hold a home insurance policy with R&SA. In September 2019, they made a 
claim as they noticed cracks forming in the bathroom, bedroom, hallway and staircase. 
R&SA declined the claim as it didnt agree it was caused by an insured event  subsidence. 
But around four months later, after the decision was appealed, it accepted the claim.
Mr and Mrs O have said R&SA has caused significant delays throughout their claim. Theyve 
said they had to repeatedly chase it for updates, often receiving no response. Throughout 
the claim Mr and Mrs O highlighted to R&SA that further damage had been caused. Theyve 
said theyve continuously asked to see an updated schedule but were sent the wrong one or 
nothing at all. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs O have said theyve made other repairs to 
ensure the damage doesnt get worse and they think this should be covered by R&SA too.
As a result of the delays caused, Mr and Mrs O say their life has been significantly impacted. 
Theyve explained they need to move house to accommodate their larger family and a 
relative but they have been unable to for a number of years due to the ongoing claim and 
outstanding repairs. So instead theyve housed their relative elsewhere and theyve said 
their enjoyment of their property has been seriously affected.
After some back and forth, in October 2021 R&SA agreed to cover the cost of alternative 
accommodation and storage of Mr and Mrs Os belongings during the works. While the claim 
has been ongoing, R&SA has offered to cash settle Mr and Mrs Os claim. It initially offered 
around £900 which Mr and Mrs O declined. It later offered around £11,000.
Unhappy with the delays to their claim, Mr and Mrs O made a complaint. In October 2022, 
R&SA upheld their complaint. It agreed it had provided a poor service, caused avoidable 
delays and put Mr and Mrs O in a position where they had to keep chasing for updates and 
information before getting responses. It also accepted it hadnt reviewed or updated the 
schedule of works when it should have. So it offered them £1,000 in compensation. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree this offer was enough  and were disappointed there was still no 
assurance the work would be moved forward. So they raised a complaint with our service.
In its file, R&SA sent us its internal contact notes and records of all the communication 
between both parties. Our Investigator upheld the complaint and directed R&SA to pay an 
additional £500 to compensate them for the way it had handled their claim. She didnt think it 
needed to do anything to make up for Mr and Mrs O not being able to move property. And 
whilst she accepted theyd had to live in discomfort for some time, she thought that was a 
usual part of this type of claim. R&SA accepted our Investigators opinion but as Mr and Mrs 
O didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. Ive copied my findings below:
Delays and service
Both R&SA and Mr and Mrs O have given me timelines of whats happened in this case. 
Taking this, together with R&SAs contact notes and internal notes, Im currently satisfied 
there have been continuous and lengthy delays caused by R&SA over the four years since 
Mr and Mrs O first made their claim, which have significantly impacted them. At the moment, 
I dont think the compensation suggested by our Investigator is enough to make up for this. 
I cant see any reasonable explanation for the delays caused. Instead, it seems much of the 
delay was caused by no one actively managing or progressing the claim forward as there 
were long periods of time where nothing happened at all. And that has meant, Mr and Mrs O 
and their family have had to continue living in a property with outstanding repairs and a great 
deal of uncertainty for a prolonged period of time. R&SA says its delayed Mr and Mrs Os 
claim by just over 13 months. But from what Ive seen so far, I think its been much longer  
and theres been no meaningful movement for the four years since it began.
For example, it took around four and half months for R&SA to accept the claim from when it 
was first submitted in September 2019. Ive looked at the report it commissioned when it first 
declined to cover the claim and whilst it categorised the damage as very slight it suggested 
further investigation would be needed to determine whether the cause was subsidence or 
not. So I dont think R&SA had enough information at that time to decline the claim. And it 
only arranged for a subsidence consultant to visit the property in January 2021, after 
Mr and Mrs O appealed the decision, which I dont think they should have needed to do.
R&SA told Mr and Mrs O it couldnt start repairs until the vegetation around their property 
had been removed. After Mr and Mrs O had confirmed it had been removed around 
September 2020, there was no meaningful movement on the claim for several months. And 
R&SA didnt acknowledge the vegetation had been removed until over six months later.
Once the schedule was provided to Mr and Mrs O, they highlighted it was inaccurate. And 
looking through R&SAs internal and contact notes, I can see numerous occasions when 
Mr and Mrs O got in touch to chase for an updated schedule  for example, in March 2021, 
June 2021, August 2021, September 2021 and October 2021. Throughout this time, they 
often received no reply. And there were at least two occasions when they were sent the 
wrong schedule in response. I can also see they contacted R&SA for updates throughout the 
claim and regularly received no reply.
Mr and Mrs O have listed a number of losses theyve suffered as a result of the delays to the 
claim. Theyve explained theyve had to put their lives on hold as theyve needed to move 
house to accommodate their growing family and their relative but havent been in a position 
to sell their property. As a result, theyve said theyve lived very uncomfortably, sharing 
bedrooms and working space. And theyve had to pay for their relatives rent and living costs 
while they are unable to live with her. Theyve also said theyve been impacted by increased 
mortgage rates  and will likely suffer from a drop in their property value when they sell their 
house as they say the property market has crashed.I accept Mr and Mrs O have had to put their lives on hold for much longer than they should 
have needed as a result of the delays to this claim. And I can imagine the uncertainty of 
when the claim would be resolved mustve caused them upset over a number of years. I 
dont currently think R&SAs offer of compensation goes far enough to make up for this.
I understand Mr and Mrs Os view is that they couldve sold their property before any drop in 
value. But I cant say its more likely they wouldve been able to do this or upsize as theyd 
planned  if there were no delays. And considering they were looking to upsize, I think its 
likely their outgoings wouldve been higher than theyve been for the last few years as a 
result. So overall, Im not currently satisfied it would be fair or reasonable to direct R&SA to 
cover the financial losses theyve claimed here.
Taken together, I think the service provided by R&SA has been extremely poor and would 
have caused a great deal of unnecessary upset and worry to Mr and Mrs O during an 
already stressful time. And this couldve been avoided if it had actively progressed the claim 
and communicated better with them. As a result of how its handled things, Mr and Mrs Os 
property is still in a state of disrepair and theyve been left living in uncertainty for a long time 
whilst continuously chasing R&SA for the same information and to move things forward. 
To make up for whats gone wrong here and the significant impact on Mr and Mrs Os family 
life for a sustained period of time, at the moment, I think R&SA should increase its offer of 
compensation to £2,250. Mr and Mrs O have also asked for one contact at the business who 
will keep them updated and move things along and I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Considering how long Mr and Mrs Os claim has continued for, I also think R&SA should 
treat it as a priority. And it should provide them with a reasonable estimated timeframe for 
the works to be completed.
Further repairs not covered by the scope of works
Mr and Mrs O told R&SA there was further damage to their property around March 2020. 
This included damage to their bathroom and en-suite tiles and grouting; their flooring 
becoming unlevel; and water ingress to a bedroom ceiling. They say R&SA agreed to cover 
the damage previously and theyd like it to honour what it said.
Ive been through all of the communication between the parties and, at the moment, I dont 
agree R&SA told Mr and Mrs O it will cover all of the additional damage theyve said was 
caused by the subsidence in the property. So Im not in a position to direct it to cover the 
cost of all of these works.
In claims of this nature, its for Mr and Mrs O to evidence the damage theyre claiming for is 
a result of the insured event  the subsidence. And based on the information Ive been 
given, I havent seen anything so far to suggest they have shown this. So, at the moment, I 
cant say R&SA should cover the cost of all of the repairs theyve claimed for.
I can see R&SA agreed to arrange temporary repairs to Mr and Mrs Os tiling, making 
reference to it all being repaired properly later. So it seems to me R&SA has accepted this 
damage is related to the subsidence claim and I think these repairs should be carried out as 
agreed. But, at the moment, Im not satisfied it should cover the cost of the repairs to their 
flooring or water ingress in the bedroom ceiling.
From the contact notes, I can see R&SA told Mr and Mrs O during a site visit in June 2022 
they could remove the ceiling to find the source of the leak and R&SA would reinstate it as 
part of the works. But it didnt think the leak was caused by the subsidence. Considering I 
havent seen any evidence this damage is related to the insured event, I currently think thats 
fair. I understand Mr and Mrs O have already paid for the leak to be repaired. If the ceiling still 
needs reinstating, I think R&SA should arrange this as part of the overall schedule of works. 
Or it should cover the amount Mr and Mrs O paid to have the ceiling reinstated if theyve 
already done so. Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs O have evidence (from investigating the leak), 
that it is subsidence related, they should submit it to R&SA so it can reconsider this part of 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs O have said there is damage to their flooring which they believe is related to the 
subsidence claim but there isnt any evidence it is. R&SA said it would investigate the 
damage Mr and Mrs O had highlighted to their flooring before deciding whether it was 
caused by the subsidence. And I currently think thats fair in this case.
Alternative accommodation
Throughout their claim, Mr and Mrs O have requested alternative accommodation while the 
works are ongoing. I can see in a report R&SA has provided from around June 2021, theyve 
said alternative accommodation should be provided while the works are being done  and 
Mr and Mrs Os belongings should be put in storage.
Whilst I can see it was later questioned whether alternative accommodation was really 
necessary, around October 2021, R&SA emailed Mr and Mrs O to confirm alternative 
accommodation would be provided for around four weeks while the work takes place.
Considering what Mr and Mrs O have said about their living arrangements  and that they 
have young children in the property, at the moment, I think its unlikely their property will be 
habitable while works are going on. So I think R&SAs offer to provide suitable alternative 
accommodation and storage of their belongings during that time is fair.
To put things right, I thought R&SA should, in summary, pay Mr and Mrs O £2,250 
compensation; prioritise their claim and arrange a dedicated contact for them; ensure the 
tiling in the bathroom and en-suite are added to the schedule together with reinstatement of 
the ceiling; arrange alternative accommodation while the works are going on; and promptly 
provide an updated schedule, highlighting whats been added, removed or amended. 
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision by the deadline set. 
R&SA initially asked what dates Id considered up to in my provisional decision. Once Id 
explained Id considered up to around the date Mr and Mrs O had originally complained to us 
about  February 2023  it said it would pay the compensation Id suggested. But it didnt 
confirm if it had accepted my overall decision. 
Mr and Mrs O said they didnt think the compensation was enough to make up for the impact 
R&SAs service has had on their lives. But they appreciated being listened to and the 
additional things Id suggested to put things right. They also thought the water ingress in the 
bedroom and the flooring should be covered. Mr and Mrs O said R&SA inspected their 
property in August 2022 and sent them a report of its findings around a year later in 
September 2023. They sent us this report and emails from around March 2020 to support 
their view. In summary they said:
Their roofers werent specialists so couldnt say if the damage was subsidence related.
R&SAs agents have previously indicated the cracks in the ceiling and water ingress in 
the bedroom were likely caused by the subsidence. They provided an email they sent to 
R&SA confirming theyd been told by one of their agents the damage was related to 
subsidence as they couldnt find signs of other causes. They also provided a letter from 
R&SA saying it was possible the water ingress might be connected to the movement. The report from September 2023 supports their view as it showed there was a twisted 
joint (causing the floor to raise slightly) and this was directly under the water ingress.
After they highlighted their floor was unlevel in March 2020, R&SA said it would 
investigate and repair it as part of the final repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr and Mr O for giving me the detail they have in response to my provisional 
decision. Whilst Ive reconsidered the complaint very carefully in light of the information 
theyve provided, I still uphold the complaint in part.
Mr and Mrs O have said they were told by an R&SA agent that the most likely cause of the 
cracks to their ceiling and water ingress was the subsidence. And theyve provided emails 
from themselves to R&SA confirming this from around the time of the event. But 
unfortunately thats not enough for me to say its more likely the damage was caused by 
movement of their property and therefore should be included under the claim. 
Mr and Mrs O have provided the letter from R&SA from March 2020 which refers to the 
ceiling leak. And whilst I can see it says its possible the water ingress is due to the 
subsidence, I can see it also says it isnt clear what the problem was. Ive gone through all of 
the information from both parties and I havent found any evidence I can rely on which 
suggests its more likely the problem was caused by subsidence. 
I appreciate the report from September 2023 mentions a joist has become twisted. And 
Mr and Mrs O say this was directly under the area where the ceiling was leaking. But I dont 
think thats enough to show the ceiling was affected by subsidence or the twisted joist. 
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs O mightve given me this evidence to show the flooring was 
impacted by water coming through the ceiling. But that doesnt change anything here as 
theres no dispute there was a water ingress  whats in dispute is what caused it.
Overall, I still think R&SA should cover the cost of reinstating the ceiling as previously 
offered. But based on the information I have, I cant fairly say it should cover repairing all of 
the damage to the ceiling or the water ingress as part of the subsidence claim.
In response to Mr and Mrs O flagging issues with the flooring to R&SA, it accepted in an 
email from April 2020, new issues can arise while theres ongoing movement in a property. 
And it said it would investigate and repair the areas as part of the final repairs. Whilst I think 
R&SA couldve been clearer here, I dont think it was offering to repair the floors even if the 
damage wasnt due to the subsidence. I think its offered to look into it and take action if the 
damage is covered, and thats what Id expect. In its report from September 2023, R&SAs 
said the flooring issue was unlikely to be related to subsidence and, without evidence to the 
contrary, I cant say this should be covered by the insurance claim.  
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think R&SA should:
Pay Mr and Mrs O a total of £2,250 compensation to make up for the trouble and upset 
its caused them. That means it needs to pay them an additional £750 on top of the 
£1,500 its already offered.Arrange for a dedicated contact for Mr and Mrs O who will keep them regularly updated 
and move their claim along.
Prioritise Mr and Mrs Os claim and provide them with a reasonable estimated timeframe 
for the works to be completed.
Ensure the effective and lasting repairs to the bathroom and en-suite tiling are added to 
the schedule of works as previously agreed.
Ensure reinstatement of the ceiling is added to the schedule of works. Alternatively, if 
this has already been completed by Mr and Mrs O, R&SA should reimburse them the 
amount theyve already paid to reinstate the ceiling upon an itemised receipt from them. 
R&SA should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs O made this payment 
until the date of settlement*.
Arrange suitable alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs O and their family and 
storage of their belongings for the duration of when the repairs under the schedule are 
carried out.
Promptly provide Mr and Mrs O with an up-to-date schedule of works, clearly highlighting 
what has been added, removed, or amended.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires R&SA to take off tax from this interest. R&SA must give 
Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman