DRN-3701763
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) set up a direct debit 
incorrectly causing her loan to go into arrears.
What happened
Mrs S says that when she switched her current account to a different bank, RBS set up a 
direct debit incorrectly and no loan repayments were made for 12 months. She says RBS 
failed to notify her of the situation and she now has significant arrears and her credit file has 
been adversely affected.
RBS says no bank error was made in switching the direct debit, but it has apologised for the 
poor investigation and complaint handling. It accepts that Mrs S did not receive a call back 
she was promised and that she was incorrectly told her direct debits were coming from a 
different bank.  It also acknowledged that some of its correspondence was sent to an old 
email address.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied that 
the account switch had been correctly actioned, and that RBS was entitled to record a 
default and request the arrears. However, he considered compensation of £100 was fair for 
RBSs poor customer service.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that the loan went into arrears because RBS was 
trying to take the payments from the wrong account. She says it had no idea the loan wasnt 
being repaid until she contacted it and so it was unfair to default the account. Mrs S adds 
that it was now affecting her ability to remortgage and that £100 is an insult given the issues 
shed had.
RBS responded to say that no missed payments were recorded during the agreed 
repayment holiday (April to September 2020) and that the account was never reported as 
defaulted. It confirmed that the loan was settled in April 2022 and RBS has now removed the 
default balance which was showing on the credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS initially said that it could not verify whether the new direct debit had been set up 
correctly and also quoted the wrong account number and bank name. It has now apologised 
as this information was incorrect and confirmed that the direct debit was correctly set up on 
the right account in April 2020. I have seen evidence from RBS to show this was the case 
and Im satisfied that the account was in Mrs Ss name. I have also requested Mrs Ss bank 
statements to clarify the situation, but she has been unable to provide those.
It is possible Mrs S meant the direct debits to come from one of her other accounts, and 
mistakenly gave RBS the incorrect bank details, but I find RBS did nothing wrong when it 
actioned her request.
RBS agreed a payment holiday would cover the payments from April 2020 to September 
2020 and said someone would call Mrs S to take Octobers payment. It says this call didnt 
happen and no further payments were received. It also accepts that it sent emails to her old 
email address.
Ive also considered the impact on Mrs Ss credit file and Im satisfied it is a fair reflection of 
how the account was managed. Ive seen evidence to show that the account was never 
defaulted and that no missed payments were recorded during the payment holiday. I note 
the loan has now been repaid.
In summary, I find that RBS correctly actioned Mrs Ss direct debit transfer, but that it did 
give her incorrect information, fail to call her back and sent emails to the wrong address. I 
can understand Mrs S will have felt let down by this poor customer service, but I find £100 is 
fair compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
should pay Mrs S £100 for the poor customer service she received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman