DRN-4348330
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has refused to cover the full cost of private 
treatment under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for these 
reasons:
When Mr H took out the policy, he selected the key hospital list. That meant that 
hospital charges for in-patient treatment would be covered in full if he had the 
treatment at a hospital on that list. However, Mr H chose to have treatment at a 
hospital not on the list. 
That decision was of course up to Mr H, but that doesnt mean Aviva needs to cover 
this. So long as Aviva could provide an alternative hospital where Mr H could have 
the procedure, and this was within a reasonable distance of his home (we usually say 
around 50 miles), then I wouldnt expect Aviva to step outside the terms of the 
contract and cover the costs.
Mr H says he doesnt think he could have had his procedure at any of the hospitals 
on his hospital list. But Aviva found a specialist who could carry out the procedure at 
a hospital on his list. This was 27 miles away from his home, and I think this was 
within a reasonable distance for him to travel. So Im satisfied that Aviva found a 
suitable alternative for Mr H where the fees could be covered in full under his chosen 
hospital list. 
The policy says that if the insured has treatment at a hospital not on their hospital list, 
then Aviva will calculate the average cost of hospital charges for equivalent treatment 
across all hospitals on the list, and that is the maximum it will pay. And it will cover 
specialist fees up to the limits in its fee schedule. Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Aviva to therefore settle the claim on this basis, as this was in line with the policy 
terms.
Mr H has also complained about the length of time he had to wait to get through to 
Aviva by phone. I see that Aviva recognised that Mr H had to wait too long and paid 
him £50 compensation for this. Im satisfied that was reasonable and reflected the 
level of impact to Mr H. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman