DRN-1153160
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc defaulted his current account without telling him. 
What happened
Mr S had a current account and £1,200 overdraft with Bank of Scotland. The account 
statements show that Mr S stopped regularly using the account around April 2018 when the 
outstanding balance was around £1,000. After that, the account balance increased with 
planned overdraft charges. Mr S made some payments into the account but in December 
2018 the balance went over his £1,200 overdraft limit. 
On 9 January 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr S about the excess balance on his 
overdraft. On 29 January 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr S again and sent him a formal 
demand and notice of default. As no contact was received from Mr S and no payments were 
made into his account, Bank of Scotland closed it down and reported a default to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr S later complained and said he hadnt received any of Bank of Scotlands letters and 
wasnt aware his account had been defaulted. Bank of Scotland responded on 29 July 2019 
but didnt agree to remove the default. Mr S referred his complaint to our service but the 
investigator thought the default Bank of Scotland has reported accurately reflected how the 
account was used. The investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint and he asked to appeal. 
As Mr S asked to appeal his case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive the important letters Bank of Scotland sent him. Ive 
looked at all of Bank of Scotlands letters and can see they are all correctly addressed, in 
line with the details we hold for Mr S. When the circumstances of a complaint are disputed Ill 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened based on all the available information. In this case, Im satisfied Bank of Scotland 
wrote to Mr S as it claims. I dont know why Mr S didnt see Bank of Scotlands letters but I 
havent been persuaded that it failed to notify him as required. 
Mr S has asked why the letters werent emailed to him instead and why Bank of Scotland 
didnt do more to contact him. Businesses generally write to customers with important 
information, like arrears letters and default notices. In addition, Ive looked at the collection 
notes and I can see that from December 2018, when Mr S exceeded the overdraft limit, 
Bank of Scotland regularly tried to call and sent text messages. The information Ive seen 
shows Bank of Scotland tried hard to discuss Mr Ss account with him before it took the 
decision to default it. 
In addition, the online banking evidence shows Mr S checked his account on 7 January 2019 
and then repeatedly  throughout February 2019. Mr S doesnt receive paper statements but I think its reasonable to say he wouldve been aware of his account balance after checking 
his online banking facility. Im satisfied Mr S was most likely aware of the overdrawn position 
of his account after he checked it online. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I understand hes found difficulty obtaining a mortgage due to 
the default on his credit file. But lenders are obliged to report accurate information about how 
customers have handled their accounts. Im satisfied that Bank of Scotlands decision to 
report a default in relation to Mr S current account accurately reflects how it was handled. 
As a result, I cant tell Bank of Scotland to remove the default. Ive considered all of the 
available evidence and I think Bank of Scotland dealt with Mr S complaint fairly so Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman