DRN-3147809
Complaint
Mr P has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly provided 
him with an overdraft which it unfairly continued applying charges to when he was in 
financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Nationwide should have 
realised that Mr Ps overdraft had become unsustainable for him by August 2013 and so it 
shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. Nationwide didnt agree 
with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Nationwide acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr Ps overdraft from        
August 2013. By this point, it was evident that Mr Ps overdraft had become unsustainable 
for him and that continuing to provide it was likely to cause financial difficulties. 
A cursory look at Mr Ps statements leading up to this period shows that he was taking out 
payday loans with a significant number of lenders in an attempt to try and make ends meet 
and meet his day to day living expenses. So its unclear to me how Nationwide saw fit to 
increase his overdraft by a substantial amount in the following month. 
Ive seen that Nationwide has referred to funds going through Mr Ps account during the 
period in question. But most of the credits going in were from payday loans and other 
unsustainable sources. So overall by August 2013, I think that Nationwide ought to have 
realised that Mr P was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his overdraft and should have 
stopped providing it on the same terms. It should have instead treated Mr P with 
forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that Nationwide should have realised that Mr P wasnt using his overdraft 
as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Nationwide didnt react to Mr Ps 
overdraft and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr P lost out because of what 
Nationwide did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2013 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Nationwide considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ps credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from August 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman