DRN-3143815
The complaint
Mr V represents the estate of Ms V. Mr V complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited 
(Assetz) didnt deal with instructions to liquidate the late Ms Vs account correctly and the 
estate suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
The late Ms V held a loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding account with Assetz. Investors 
on Assetz platform had the option to exit loans early via its secondary market, subject to 
demand from other investors at that time. 
Mr V emailed Assetz on 16 April 2020 to explain that his mother had sadly passed away. He 
sent Assetz a copy of his late mothers death certificate, will and an instruction to sell all of 
her loans on 29 April 2020. Assetz responded via email on 14 May 2020 to explain that, as 
his late mother held over £5,000, a grant of probate would be required in order to release the 
funds. 
Mr V provided Assetz with a copy of the grant of probate on 17 August 2020. Assetz 
responded on 21 August 2020 to explain that an initial payment of the funds not invested in 
loans would be sent to him shortly, but the rest of the funds wouldnt be released until the 
loans they were invested in had been sold to other investors. Assetz also explained that 
there was no typical timeframe for how long this could take. 
Mr V complained to Assetz as he felt it should have sold all the loans when he provided his 
late mothers death certificate, will and bereavement form, along with his instruction to sell 
on 29 April 2020. Mr V said that he would have expected Assetz to have carried out his 
instruction, even if the funds couldnt have been paid until after the grant of probate was 
received, as he was the sole executor on the will. He also mentioned that his late mother 
was an investor with other peer-to-peer platforms. One of which had already sold all of her 
loans and paid out in full and the other had sold and paid the majority out to the estate. 
Mr V said that the secondary market and wider peer-to-peer economy had deteriorated in 
the time between receiving his instruction and executing the loan sales. And so he felt 
Assetz should reimburse the estate for any financial loss caused by bad debt on the loans it 
failed to sell during that time. He also said the estate had suffered distress and 
inconvenience caused by Assetzs actions in dragging out the probate during a particularly 
painful bereavement. 
Assetz looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Assetz said that, although an account 
will be locked at the point its informed of a bereavement, an account cant be liquidated (the 
loan holdings put up for sale via the secondary market) before receipt of all the required 
documentation. Assetz said this process was explained in the bereavement form Mr V 
completed. Assetz explained it has this policy in place to prevent fraudulent actions that 
could be requested by someone who is not legally entitled to access the account, in order to 
protect the deceaseds estate. 
An investigator at our service considered the complaint and didnt think Assetz had acted 
unfairly in requiring the grant of probate before selling the loan parts. She felt Assetz had 
made it clear that all relevant documentation would be needed in order to start the liquidation 
process and that the bereavement form said this would include a grant of probate where an 
investors balance is over £5,000. 
Our investigator also didnt think Assetz was at fault for the delays in the selling of the loans. 
She said that, although Assetz had put a facility in place to allow investors to sell their loans 
on the secondary market, it couldnt control demand from other investors. And she was  
satisfied it had made this clear on its website. She acknowledged that, historically, release 
requests would only take a matter of days on the platform because there were investors 
willing to purchase loan parts and the market was more stable. However, the Covid-19 
pandemic had impacted this and increased the wait times for selling loans. Given the 
circumstances, she said it wasnt unreasonable that release requests would take longer, and 
this isnt something which Assetz could control.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators opinion as he still felt Assetz should have liquidated 
the loans on his initial instruction and held onto the funds until the grant of probate was 
provided. He also questioned why Assetz required a will if a grant of probate was required. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons given 
by our investigator. I appreciate its been a difficult time for Mr V and this isnt the outcome 
he was hoping for, but I will explain why Ive reached this decision. 
I understand Mr Vs argument about the time sensitive nature of selling his late mothers 
loans due to the risk of bad debt occurring over the terms. And especially considering his 
instruction was given around the time of the Covid-19 pandemic which had increased this 
particular risk, as well as increased wait times for selling loan parts on the secondary market. 
However, Mr Vs instruction was not a straightforward one given directly from an investor. 
Instead, he provided it in his capacity as executor for his late mothers estate. The question 
that arises is about the basis upon which Assetz could reasonably have been expected to 
comply with such an instruction. In broad terms, a deceased's will expresses their wishes for 
their estate and it can also stipulate who is to be the executor of the estate. However, the 
effect of a grant of probate is to grant the executor the legal right or authority to deal with and 
administer the assets within the estate.
Assetz has explained that its policy is to require all relevant documents to be provided before 
it follows any instruction to deal with a deceased investors account. And I can see it made 
this clear on the bereavement form Mr V completed. The form also explained that a relevant 
document would include a grant of probate where an investor has over £5,000 invested. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr V said on the form that he didnt know the value of his late mothers 
investment, the need for a grant of probate was explained to him in Assetzs email dated 14 
May 2020. 
Assetzs policy to require the grant of probate had the effect of ensuring it did not allow Mr V, 
as executor, to deal with or administer the estate's investments until he had the legal right 
and authority to do so - with that legal authority established through the grant of probate. Given the legal purpose of a grant of probate, Im satisfied this was not an unreasonable 
position for Assetz to adopt and that it followed its policy outlined on the bereavement form. 
At best, Mr Vs reference to other peer-to-peer platforms adopting a different position on the 
matter suggests that Assetz might have had discretion to do the same. However, it isnt 
bound by these other platforms practices and it isnt obliged to compromise what appears to 
have been its decision to abide by the full purpose of the grant of probate. This conclusion 
might have differed in the face of evidence that Assetz had applied comparable discretion 
elsewhere, but I have not seen such evidence in this case. On balance and for the reasons 
given above, I am not persuaded that Assetz was wrong to have waited until it had received 
the grant of probate before selling the loans. 
Its unfortunate that wait times to sell loans on the secondary market increased during the 
time it took Mr V to obtain and provide Assetz with the grant of probate. And also that bad 
debt occurred on some of the late Ms Vs loans during that time. However, I dont think 
Assetz are responsible for this. Assetz makes it clear on its website the risks of bad debt, as 
well as the need to sell loan parts to other investors when exiting loans early. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Assetz has acted fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estate of Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms V 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman