DRN-4408285
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with a car she acquired using a hire purchase agreement taken with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
In April 2023 Mrs S acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement taken with BMF. The 
car cost £13,198 and Mrs S paid a deposit of £1,000. She was due to pay £311.64 a month 
for five years. The car was around seven years old and had covered around 80,661 miles.
Shortly after getting the car, Mrs S says she heard a swishing sound when driving and 
realised the car door was full of water, which was causing electrical issues. Mrs S says the 
door wouldnt lock and was difficult to operate.
Mrs S says she spoke to the dealer and asked to reject the car, but it told her it couldnt see 
the car for several weeks to confirm if she could do this. So Mrs S contacted BMF and also 
told it she wanted to reject the car. BMF told her to go to an independent garage to have the 
car looked at.
Mrs S says a garage confirmed the fault and drained the door, and also noted a bulge in one 
of the tyres. She sent this information to BMF and again asked to reject the car. But BMF 
told her the dealer needed to inspect it. The car was then returned to the dealer.
Mrs S complained to BMF and it issued a final response in June 2023. This said, in 
summary, that the dealer explained the water in the door had been caused by a build up of 
debris blocking a drain. It said this had been repaired. It also said the car needed an oil and 
filter replacement and a replacement tyre. But BMF said Mrs S hadnt shown there was a 
mechanical fault so she didnt have a right to reject the car. It told Mrs S if she didnt collect 
the car from the dealer within seven days, it may repossess it.
Mrs S then raised the complaint to our service. She said shed had to use a car where one 
door wasnt operational. She said this had an impact on her family life, including causing 
additional stress when trying to take a close relative to hospital appointments. She said this 
had caused additional problems because of her own health. She said the situation had 
affected her credit rating. And she said shed had to pay out to get another car.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained he thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, that he thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mrs S 
acquired it. He said she had the right to reject the car when she asked to, and should now be 
allowed to do so. He said BMF could retain one months payment for the car, but should 
reimburse her any other amount paid including the deposit. He also said BMF should 
reimburse her the cost of the health check and pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs S accepted the view. But she said she was worried about now driving a manual car as 
she needed an automatic.
BMF responded and said no electrical issues were found by the dealer and the bulge in the 
tyre couldve been caused by Mrs S. Our investigator explained this didnt change his 
opinion. BMF then said it would offer to refund all repayments for the time Mrs S didnt have 
the car and repair it. But it said it didnt think she should be able to reject it.
Mrs S wasnt willing to accept this offer and still wanted to reject the car. BMF said it still 
thought rejection was unfair. The complaint was then passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
While awaiting this, BMF and Mrs S confirmed that a successful chargeback claim had gone 
through for Mrs Ss deposit against the dealer. Our investigator explained this meant he 
didnt think BMF now needed to also reimburse Mrs Ss deposit, as this would mean 
receiving it back twice.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining to both parties that I might not comment on every individual 
point raised or every piece of evidence. While I have carefully considered all of the 
information on the case, I am going to focus on what I think are the key points and the crux 
of the complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
When she referred her case to us, Mrs S raised a complaint point about credit broking and 
said that due to an issue with her ID, she believes she ended up with a higher interest rate 
than she shouldve. I cant see this point was raised to BMF and it is not addressed in its 
final response. So, my decision will make no findings about this nor comment further. If 
Mrs S wishes to pursue this matter, she will need to contact BMF and/or the credit broker 
separately.
Mrs S complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mrs Ss complaint about BMF. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMF here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. Ill consider that Mrs Ss car was around seven years old and had 
covered over 80,000 miles. I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be in the 
same condition as a newer, less road worn car. But, it cost over £13,000. So, I think a 
reasonable person would still expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults and to 
be at least road legal and safe.
The CRA explains, in summary, that Mrs S would have a short term right to reject the car, if 
it was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied and if she exercised this right within 30 days of 
acquiring it.
The credit agreement is dated 18 April 2023. I can see Mrs S told the dealer she wanted to 
return the car on 2 May 2023. So, Im satisfied Mrs S exercised her short term right to reject within 30 days of acquiring the car. What I need to decide is whether Mrs S had this right or 
not. In other words, I need to decide if the car was of satisfactory quality when Mrs S 
acquired it.
Mrs S made the dealer aware of the issue with water in the door shortly after getting the car. 
Ive then seen a copy of the vehicle health check from another garage. This isnt dated, but 
I believe this is from around the end of May 2023. This notes in relation to a tyre:
bulge on sidewall
And under notes:
O/S/R Door Full of WATER
Im satisfied this health check backs up what Mrs S had told both the dealer and BMF. It 
follows Im satisfied Mrs Ss car had the issues she complained about when it was supplied.
Ive thought about what BMF said about the lack of a mechanical fault. But Im not sure I 
understand its argument here. The CRA doesnt mention goods would need to have a 
mechanical fault to be of unsatisfactory quality. And I think its absolutely clear that where a  
car that cost over £13,000 was supplied with a door full of water, a reasonable person would 
not consider this of satisfactory quality. 
I have thought about the fact it appears the garage Mrs S took the car to did drain the door  
although I believe Mrs S said she didnt ask for this to be done. Given this couldve caused 
electrical and/or safety issues, I can understand why the garage did this. I think Mrs S acted 
reasonably here. And she had already explained at this point she wanted to reject the car. 
So, in this particular case, I dont think this repair should remove Mrs Ss short term right to 
reject under the CRA.
Either way, Im also satisfied having reviewed a photo that the bulge in the tyre  which I 
think would very likely be an MOT fail and a potential safety issue also meant the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality when Mrs S acquired it.
To summarise, Mrs S acquired a car which was not of satisfactory quality, exercised her 
short term right to reject and then provided evidence to BMF that the issues were present. 
Im satisfied BMF shouldve allowed her to reject the car at that point.
What I next need to consider is what now would be fair and reasonable to put things right. 
Given Mrs S had a right to reject the car, and as far as Im aware it has been left at the 
dealer and not driven since it was returned, I think its fair this should still be the case.  
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S has now received the deposit back under the chargeback 
scheme. I agree with our investigator that BMF now doesnt need to reimburse this as it 
wouldnt be reasonable to receive this amount twice.
Ive considered Mrs Ss use of the car. Our investigator thought as Mrs S covered around 
900 miles in it, this reflected around a months use. So, he said BMF could retain one 
months repayment to reflect this use. My logic here is slightly different, but I still think this is 
a fair way of dealing with the situation. Ill explain why.
I believe Mrs S had the car for longer than a month. So it might then seem fair for BMF to 
retain more than one repayment. But, thinking about the use of the car during this period, Im 
satisfied it wasnt performing as it should. So, while Mrs S did appear to use the car for a longer period than our investigator explained, Im still satisfied one months repayment is a 
fair amount to reflect the longer, impaired, period Mrs S used the car for.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs S has suffered distress and inconvenience because of 
what happened. She has explained this situation has caused her worry and has affected her 
family life. Ive also considered her recent comments that this ongoing issue has left her 
being unable to drive as she requires an automatic car. But, as far as I can see, BMF arent 
responsible for the specification of the car Mrs S got as a replacement. Thinking about all of 
this, I agree BMF should pay £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
I also agree Mrs S wouldnt have had to pay out for the vehicle health check if nothing went 
wrong. So, its fair and reasonable that this is reimbursed, if it hasnt been already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put 
things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs S
Reimburse all payments made to the agreement*, apart from the first monthly 
payment which BMF can retain**
Reimburse Mrs S the cost of the vehicle health check ** ***
Pay Mrs S £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the agreement
* To be clear, this does not include the deposit Mrs S paid.
**These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
*** I have limited information about this payment. If BMF have already reimbursed this to 
Mrs S, or if BMF covered the cost of this upfront, it doesnt need to take any action here. And 
BMF only needs to reimburse this if Mrs S provides it with proof of payment, such as a 
receipt or invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman