DRN-4077216
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill call B has complained about the decision of West Bay 
Insurance Plc to decline its business interruption claim for losses arising out of the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr B, as a director of B, has brought the complaint on its behalf. He is represented in this 
complaint but I will refer to Mr B or B throughout. 
West Bay are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the agents it uses to deal with claims on its behalf. As West Bay has accepted 
it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to West Bay 
includes the actions of the agents.  
What happened
B consists of a nightclub. It held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by West Bay. B 
contacted West Bay to make a claim after it was required to close in March 2020 due to the 
Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
West Bay declined the claim. It said the policy provided cover as a result of closure or 
restrictions as a result of notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the premises but was 
not satisfied that any such manifestation had been established. B says that in early March 
2020, at least three staff members were unwell with Covid-19 and manifested symptoms of 
Covid-19 while at the premises. But West Bay doesnt accept there is enough evidence that 
they were suffering from Covid-19. West Bay also said that, even if there had been a 
manifestation at the premises. B didnt close as a result of the alleged manifestation of 
Covid-19 at the premises but continued to operate until it was required to close by the 
Government requirement that nightclubs and pubs close on 20 March 2020. West Bay said 
the Government restrictions were a response to the pandemic generally and not an insured 
event under this policy. Therefore B was not caused any loss as a result of any alleged 
manifestation at the premises and the claim was not covered.
West Bay also reviewed the claim in light of the Financial Conduct Authority Business 
Interruption test case in which the High Court and The Supreme Court determined how a 
number of different insurance policies should respond to Covid-19 related claims (FCA test 
case) but didnt think this altered its position. The Courts did not consider Bs policy 
wording. 
Unhappy with the refusal of the claim, Mr B brought the complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He did not think that West Bay had acted 
unfairly, as he thought it was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it did. The 
Investigator did not consider that B had established that there was a manifestation of Covid-
19 at the premises before it was required to close in March 2020.  
B does not accept the Investigators assessment. It has made a number of points in its initial 
complaint and in response to the Investigator. I have considered everything B has said but 
have summarised the main points below: 
The Investigator wrongly applied the test of balance of probabilities. It has 
established on the balance of probabilities that that there was a manifestation of 
Covid-19 at the premises before the relevant date. 
At least three members of staff manifested symptoms of Covid-19 at the premises in 
March 2020. 
Employee A was paid statutory sick pay in March 2020 as he had Covid-19 and a 
claim was successfully made to the HMRC Coronavirus SSP Rebate Scheme in July 
2020. 
The Investigator said that Employee As symptoms could have been of any other 
illness but it doesnt accept this is likely. It says that the vast majority of people who 
had breathing issues and coughing in March 2020 did indeed have Covid-19 and this 
would certainly be the case when applying the test of on the balance of probabilities. 
Employee C was working at the premises from 8 to 15/16 March 2020 and became 
unwell with Covid-19 symptoms on 16 March 2020. He obtained a NHS isolation note  
due to having symptoms of Covid-19. He was also paid statutory sick pay, which was 
reimbursed under the rebate scheme. 
The isolation note confirms symptoms of Covid-19 and in refusing to accept this as 
proof of Covid-19 infection, the Investigator is dismissing the bona fides of the NHS 
isolation note system. This is a unilateral decision with no evidence whatsoever. 
The correct test is whether someone with an NHS isolation note that says they had 
symptoms of Covid-19 was more likely than not to have had symptoms of Covid-19. 
And the answer to this has to be yes. 
Another employee was also very ill with Covid-19 in March 2020, having been at the 
premises. 
In addition, it had around 2,500 visitors to the premises between 5 and 20 March 
2020 and has provided evidence that this means there was an 83% chance that 
there was a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises (in addition to the 
manifestations in its employees).  
B also provided some additional evidence to support its case that there was Covid-19 at the 
premises. I will list the main evidence: 
1. Statement of Employee A dated March 2023  In summary it says he was ill with 
Covid-19 from around 6 March 2020 for around two weeks. He says he had a 
persistent cough, high temperature, loss of sense of taste (but not smell), shortness 
of breath, pain on breathing, tired, achy, headache, sore throat. He has had Covid-19 
four times and knows the symptoms. He called 999 a few times in March 2020, as he 
was worried. 
2. Positive Covid-19 antibody test result for Employee A, dated August 2020.
3. Positive Covid-19 test result for Employee A, dated December 2022. 
4. Statement director of B. In summary it says he was at the premises with Employee A 
on 6 and 8 March 2020. Still photographs from the CCTV have been provided with 
the statement to support this. He was also there 10 and 11 March 2020 with 
Employee A who was very unwell and getting worse with symptoms of Covid-19. 
Employee A took 14,15 and 16 March 2020 off as he was unwell with Covid-19 he 
returned on 17 and 18 but was off again on 19 March 2020. He told Employee A to 
stay home until he was better but he did come in again to deal with a delivery.  
5. Statement of Employee B which confirms she witnessed Employee A displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19 in the period leading up to 20 March 2020. As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, West Bay says that B now says that it closed on 19 March 2020 (i.e. before 
the March Regulations required) but this seems to have been due to staff shortages, rather 
than manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises. Its position remains that B closed as a result 
of the general restrictions on social venues and not due to a manifestation of Covid-19 at its 
premises as required by the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies offer protection from some of the risks common to a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if West Bay has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Bs claim. 
The relevant part Bs policy is an extension to the business interruption section of the policy, 
which provides cover for losses resulting from business interruption or interference as a 
consequence of: 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
The phrases notifiable human disease and public authority are not specifically defined in 
the policy. 
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease and the closure of businesses like B was imposed by 
the Government following the advice of the Chief Medical Officer for England. So, for this 
extension to provide cover for Bs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises 
would need to be as a result of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. 
The Supreme Court provided guidance on what the term manifestation means. It said there 
must be a diagnosis of, or display of symptoms of, the notifiable disease for it to amount to a 
manifestation. 
B says the Courts definition of manifesting means that a person displaying symptoms is 
manifesting the disease regardless of whether they have the disease or not, or have been 
diagnosed with the disease or not; it just requires them to have displayed symptoms (which 
may or may not have been caused by Covid-19). 
I do not agree with this. I have considered the Supreme Court judgement and the FCA 
guidance. In my opinion it still has to be established that the symptoms displayed are more 
likely than not Covid-19, rather than any other illness. There is nothing I can see in the 
relevant judgements to suggest otherwise. So for there to be cover under this term in the 
policy, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19, or 
have displayed symptoms of Covid-19, while at Bs premises and before the Government 
requirement to close was imposed.
 Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter in hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful but it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time
B has provided evidence that Employee A was unwell between 6 and 20 March 2020 and 
that he was displaying some symptoms that it says were Covid-19 symptoms. Employee A 
says he had persistent cough, high temperature, loss of sense of taste (but not smell), 
shortness of breath, pain on breathing, was tired and achy, had headaches and a sore 
throat, These are symptoms that could indicate a Covid-19 infection. 
However, I note that there is no contemporaneous evidence to support that Employee A he 
was unwell with these symptoms, or that he thought it was Covid-19, as far as I am aware, 
such as text messages or emails. I also note that Employee A says he called 999 and the 
Covid Helpline a number of times but there is no independent evidence of any calls, or any 
call to his GP. The only evidence from Employee A about his symptoms is his statement 
written three years later, in March 2023. And the supporting evidence are statements from    
Mr B and another employee also produced in March 2023.
Employee A has also provided what he says is a positive antibody test. This was issued 
overseas, so is not written in English. I cannot therefore confirm the content of that but am 
prepared to accept it confirms what B says. However, it would only prove that at some point 
before the test was taken in August 2020, Employee A had been infected with Covid-19.
The only contemporaneous evidence that an employee was unwell is the confirmation that B 
was able to apply for statutory sick pay rebate in respect of sick pay paid to two employees 
between 13 and 18 March 2020 of £94.26. As far as I am aware, this Government rebate 
scheme did not require any proof of infection with Covid-19 to qualify. 
Overall, I do not think this is enough to establish that Employee A was more likely than not 
suffering from Covid-19 at the relevant time and therefore that Covid-19 manifested itself at 
the premises. 
B has also provided evidence of Employee C being unwell having been at the premises. 
There is no direct evidence from this employee as far as I am aware but B has provided 
evidence of an isolation note stating that Employee C should stay off work from 17 to 23 
March 2020 because they have symptoms of coronavirus. 
B says this is therefore sufficient evidence that there was a manifestation at the premises, as 
Employee C had symptoms of Covid-19 and had been at the premises when first unwell. However, as stated above, the symptoms have to be more likely than not of Covid-19 and 
not any other illness. The isolation note is contemporaneous evidence that Employee was 
unwell but I must also bear in mind the fact that many of those advised to self-isolate by 
NHS 111 did not in fact have Covid-19. NHS 111 took a cautionary approach, and provided 
this advice to anyone who contacted it with symptoms that might possibly be those of Covid-
19. In many cases, as the individuals did not have this disease and were suffering from 
another illness such as flu.
Overall, I do not consider that the isolation note is enough to establish that there was a 
manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises as a result of Employee C. 
B also says that Covid-19 was present everywhere and has provided statistical evidence that 
it says means it is more likely than not that there would have been a manifestation of Covid-
19 at the premises in addition to Employee A and C. B has based this on the local population 
of almost 322,000 and the daily new infections in the area (of just under 40 on 5 March 2020 
and increasing daily to 440 on 19 March 2020). B has made some adjustments to take 
account of certain factors and has used these figures to calculate that there was an 83% 
chance of Covid-19 manifesting itself at its premises between 5 and 20 March 2020 based 
on approximately 2,500 visitors to its premises during that time. B says that, even if some of 
the factors and variables in its calculations are not accurate, it cannot be in doubt that there 
was over 50% probability of a visitor manifesting Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant 
time and this is all that is required. 
Ive considered the data B has provided about the number of people who visited the 
premises and the number of cases of Covid-19 in the area and the rationale for its 
conclusions. However, I dont think this is enough to demonstrate on the balance of 
probabilities that Covid-19 manifested at Bs premises in this case. 
Bs analysis seems to assume that those with Covid-19 symptoms were just as likely to visit 
its premises during this period as those without. B says its visitors would tend to be those 
less likely to be concerned about catching Covid-19 and also more likely to have caught it, 
so any effect of people who had come into contact with Covid being less likely
to go out would be counter balanced by the more care free attitude of our customer base. So 
the effect would be neutral.
However, visitor numbers appeared to fall during the relevant period. The highest number of 
visitors was on the weekend 7/8 March 2020, 254 and then 518 respectively. The next 
weekend 14/15 March numbers had fallen to 190 and 329 respectively. I think it is possible 
that this reduction in visitor numbers was due to people starting to be more cautious about 
attending venues such as Bs and I think it is reasonable to assume that those with 
symptoms of Covid-19 (and who were therefore manifesting the disease) in particular were 
being more cautious at the time. I think this casts some doubt on the rationale used. 
Im also aware that there were differences in the way Covid-19 affected different groups of 
people. It is recognized that younger people were less likely to display symptoms, even after 
contact with the Covid-19 virus. Those that were asymptomatic and with no positive 
diagnosis would not be deemed to be manifesting the disease. I can see that B made an 
allowance for those in the general population of the area not manifesting symptoms but I 
cannot see it has made any adjustment when considering the demographic of its customers.  
Overall, I do not think that the analysis provided by B gives enough detail to establish that it 
was more likely than not that there was a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises, as 
required by the policy. Having considered everything, the evidence provided to me is that B closed as a result of the 
government restrictions. And it has not persuaded me that a case of Covid-19 manifested at 
the premises to contribute to the governments decision to require B to close. I do not 
therefore think it was unreasonable for West Bay to refuse the claim under this section of 
cover. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman