DRN-3990734
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Ald Automotive Limited charged him for increased road tax, and 
also took the first payment too early.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr W took out a finance agreement with Ald for a car. At this point, hed 
been told the car had been assigned a value of £39,025 by the manufacturer. However, in 
August 2022, he received an invoice from Ald for £365. This was as a result of the 
manufacturer having increased the cars price, resulting in an increase in the road tax that 
was due. The sum was to be taken after a 30 day notice period, but Ald took it within this 
time.
Mr W complained to Ald that hed been mis-sold the agreement, as the price of the car had 
changed. He was also unhappy about the payment being collected too early. Ald responded, 
saying that as the manufacturer had raised the price of the car, the road tax had increased, 
and Ald was entitled to pass this on to Mr W. However, it accepted it had taken the payment 
too early. It offered Mr W £365 compensation in acknowledgement of this (which equated to 
the first years tax increase).
Mr W was unhappy with this, so brought his complaint to our service. Hed like further 
compensation, and be allowed to exit the agreement early at no further cost.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied that the price increase had likely come from the 
manufacturer, and that the terms of the finance agreement allowed Ald to pass the resulting 
tax increase on to Mr W. He could see that the price of the car had increased before Mr W 
had entered into the agreement, but this hadnt been updated. However, he had no evidence 
that Mr W wouldnt have entered into the agreement, had he known about the increase.
Our investigator agreed that Ald had taken the payment too early, but was satisfied that the 
£365 compensation was fair to address this mistake.
Mr C disagreed. He thinks its unfair that he has to pay an extra £365 a year, for each year of 
the agreement. He feels that the issue is between Ald and the manufacturer, and shouldnt 
have an impact on him.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, but Ill 
explain why.
Its clear to me that the price increase had taken effect before Mr W entered into the 
agreement. Unfortunately, the increase hadnt been pulled through into the agreement, and 
Ald only became aware of it later. I accept that it should have checked there had been no 
changes. I can see this would have been frustrating for Mr W. For the agreement to have 
been misrepresented, a false statement of fact must be made  and Im satisfied it was. But, 
its also necessary that the consumer wouldnt have entered into the agreement, had he/she 
known the correct position. Here, I dont think, on balance, that it was such that Mr W 
wouldnt have entered into the agreement, had he known about the increase. Ive seen no 
evidence to persuade me this would have been the case.  
I can also see that the agreement allows for the increase in road tax (as a result of 
manufacturer price increases) to be passed on to Mr W. On the front page, it states:
If it reasonable to do so we can vary the Regular Payments by giving you at least 30 
days written notice solely to the extent necessary to respond to a variation in the 
following: 
c) any increase in the cost of the vehicle to us, whether due to import tariffs, other 
statutory charges and/or manufacturer price increases.
Accordingly, I dont think it was unfair for the increase to be passed on. I know Mr W feels it 
should be between Ald and the manufacturer, but he signed an agreement allowing for what 
has happened.
Turning to the payment being taken early, Ald has accepted it acted incorrectly. It credited 
Mr Ws account with £365 compensation in acknowledgement of this, which equated to a 
years tax increase. Taking everything into account, I think this is a significant sum, and I feel 
it fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr W.
For these reasons, I think Ald acted reasonably in charging Mr W, and has done all it should 
in putting things right as regards taking the first payment early.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman