DRN-2975812
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund debit card payments which 
were made as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here.
Mr P believed he was dealing with a genuine investment firm  B. He says Bs 
representatives promised him big returns and asked him to make payments to Bs trading 
platform in bitcoin. They told him by doing so he could earn a greater return. So across 
June 2019 and July 2019, Mr P made six payments totalling around £4,000 using his 
NatWest debit card. The initial registration payment was made to a merchant, which Ill refer 
to as Q. The subsequent five payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange, which Ill refer to as C to purchase bitcoins. These bitcoins were then sent to the 
external addresses provided by Bs representatives. There were also two small credits to 
Mr Ps account  one from each merchant.  
Mr P realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam when he wasnt able to withdraw his funds 
and the representative ceased communication. He contacted NatWest and asked that it 
reverse or refund the payments. 
Ultimately NatWest said that it was unable to pursue a chargeback for the initial payment to 
Q because Mr P couldnt provide the required evidence. And there were no grounds for 
chargeback claims under the VISA scheme for the subsequent five payments to C. 
Mr P complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators 
explained to Mr P that she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations and in accordance with Mr Ps general account terms and conditions, 
NatWest should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting 
position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even where they have 
been tricked into making that payment, for example as part of an investment scam. There is 
no dispute here that Mr P authorised the payments. And simply being the victim of a scam 
doesnt automatically entitle Mr P to a refund.
So for me to uphold this complaint and direct NatWest to pay Mr Ps losses Id need to be 
persuaded that NatWests actions at the time of processing the payments reasonably 
resulted in his loss or it has treated him unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those 
funds.
Firstly, like the Investigator Im satisfied the transactions wouldnt have appeared particularly 
unusual or suspicious to NatWest and I dont think there were sufficient grounds for it to 
have intervened and/or done more at the point the payments were processed. And as the 
payments were made using Mr Ps debit card NatWests only option to try to recover Mr Ps 
funds was through chargeback which would be subject to the relevant scheme rules.
I think it would be helpful if I start by explaining that chargeback is a voluntary scheme. 
There is no right to a chargeback. It is for the regulated card issuer (here NatWest) to 
decide if it has a basis upon which it can pursue a chargeback. NatWest are bound by the 
card scheme providers rules which in this case is VISA.
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
NatWest to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. 
And a lack of the required evidence is one scenario where I think a claim would be unlikely 
to succeed. With that in mind, I can see NatWest asked Mr P for the evidence it required for 
a valid claim under VISAs scheme rules. Mr P did not present the required evidence and so, 
I dont think NatWest has treated Mr P unfairly in concluding that his claim didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding and in deciding not to pursue a chargeback for the initial 
payment made to Q.  
All the remaining disputed payments were made to C, a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. 
The service provided by the exchange would be to convert Mr Ps payments into 
cryptocurrency. Whilst I appreciate Mr P says he was manipulated by Bs representative into 
purchasing bitcoin. For the purposes of the chargeback scheme C provided the service it 
was paid for  converting Mr Ps money into bitcoin and crediting it to his wallet. Therefore, 
there are no chargeback rights under the scheme. The fact that the bitcoins (albeit under 
deception) were later transferred elsewhere doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim. I 
therefore dont find NatWest was acting unfairly or unreasonably when not pursuing 
chargebacks that didnt have any reasonable prospect of success.  
Its unfortunate Mr P has fallen victim to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which he finds himself, Im not persuaded NatWest has done anything wrong, so 
I wont be asking it to reimburse the lost money nor do I make any other award against it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman