DRN-2672773
The complaint
Miss M complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Miss M took out the PPI policy when she applied for a store card in February 2001. AXA and 
Miss M agree that the application was made in-store and that Miss M wasnt advised to take 
the cover. Miss M said that she wasnt given a choice about the PPI, and indeed she thought 
it had been added to her card without her knowledge and consent.
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Miss M owed on her store card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it would have 
paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This wouldve 
carried on until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also included life 
cover and price and purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld, as he thought Miss M wouldnt have 
bought the policy if shed been fully informed about the cost and benefits at the point of sale. 
AXA disagreed, and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021. Having received further information about 
Miss Ms circumstances, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and didnt propose to 
uphold this complaint. Miss M responded to the provisional decision and said she had 
nothing further to add. AXA didnt send in a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent us a copy of Miss Ms store card application, and I can see that Miss M signed  
separately from her signature for the card - to say that she wanted the PPI. I accept that I 
cant know what discussion there may have been between Miss M and the salesperson 
about the PPI, but theres nothing on the form to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. And I 
think Miss M could have left that section of the form blank if she didnt want the insurance. 
Overall, I think its most likely that Miss M was aware of the PPI and was given a choice 
about taking it - and decided to do so. I think she probably just doesnt remember doing so 
as it was all so long ago. 
AXA and Miss M both said that the policy wasnt recommended for Miss M. On that basis, 
AXA didnt need to make sure that the PPI was suitable for her. But it shouldve given her 
enough information for her to decide whether the policy was right for her.
The store card application shows the cost of the policy as a penny in the pound of the 
monthly balance, and it refers to another document for more information, although I dont 
have a copy of that. I cant know whether the salesperson clearly pointed out the main things 
the policy didnt cover, but I cant see that Miss M wouldve been affected by any of these.
The information weve had about Miss Ms circumstances hasnt been entirely consistent, 
although given that she took out the PPI some 20 years ago its not surprising that she may 
not be able to recall her exact circumstances at the time, or that evidence might not be 
readily available. Miss M initially told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer of six months full pay, although she later said that this wouldve been followed by 
six months half pay. Miss M also mentioned having had savings she couldve relied on. We 
asked for more details of the amount and she later provided information to say that this 
wouldve been equivalent to less than a months salary. 
On balance, I think Miss M couldve found it difficult to make the card repayments once her 
sick pay reduced or if shed lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss M 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. 
I said in my provisional decision that, for the reasons stated above, I didnt think the policy 
was mis-sold. Neither party provided any new evidence or arguments, so I have no reason 
to change my conclusions. This means Miss M isnt worse off as a result of what AXA may 
have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman