DRN-1521735
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out on a loan in 1997. The loan included an amount to pay for the policy. Mr K says AXA 
France IARD  trading as GE Capital Bank (GE Capital) - mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
GE Capital shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure Mr K was aware the policy was 
optional. Neither Mr K nor GE Capital are sure how the policy was sold and given how long 
ago this policy was sold, theres not much evidence available. But GE Capital has provided a 
copy of Mr Ks loan agreement. This includes information about PPI such as the cost  
listed separately to the loan itself. It also describes the cover as optional. 
I think the way the PPI was presented on the loan agreement Mr K signed would have made 
it clear that it was an optional product. And from what we know about how GE Capital sold 
these policies at the time, I think its more likely GE Capital made it clear that Mr K didnt 
have to take out the PPI, and he chose to take it out.
GE Capital has said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K. So, it didnt have to check if it was 
right for Mr K. But it did have to give him enough clear information so that he could decide 
whether to take it. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, I think the information he was given about the cost of 
the policy was clear. It states how much the PPI plus interest would cost and that it was 
separate from the cost of the loan. But I accept other information wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the PPI couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months had he lost his job unexpectedly or was too sick to work. This 
wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay he received from his employer  as well as any 
savings. 
Ive noted Mr Ks comments that his parents would have helped if he was unable to make his 
repayments. Whilst I dont doubt that his parents would have wanted to help, peoples 
circumstances change, and as such I dont think that help could be guaranteed. 
So, I think it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. So even if GE Capital didnt give Mr K all the information it should have done, I dont think 
hes lost out as a result. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman