DRN-3355712
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Close Brothers 
Limited (CBL) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr C purchased a used car on the 18 April 2019. The car cost £3495, was just over 7 years 
old and had travelled 73,500 miles.
In August 2019 Mr C stated that there was a problem with the DPF filter and the warning 
light came on. He took the car to his own mechanic who carried out a regeneration of the 
DPF and re-set the warning light. In January 2020 Mr C was told that the exhaust system 
needed a repair following an MOT inspection. Mr C took the car to the supplying dealership 
in March 2020 and a repair was completed. 
A further repair was completed by the supplying dealership in July 2020. Mr C says that the 
dealership used a power hose to unblock the DPF. Mr C had the car inspected by an 
independent engineer in January 2022 who concluded that the engine has a fault and the 
power washing of the DPF has likely caused additional damage to the engine.
CBL rejected Mr Cs complaint and stated that there was no evidence that the faults the car 
now has were present at the point of sale.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and in their initial view thought that there wasnt 
enough information about the faults or the repairs to conclude that the car had faults at the 
point of sale. Mr C provided further information in the form of bank statements to show the 
repairs he had paid for. Our investigator thought that there still wasnt enough evidence to 
conclude that the faults were present at the point of sale given the age and mileage of the 
car. Mr C then obtained the independent inspection report. Our investigator said that this 
confirmed there was a fault with the car but it wasnt evidence that the fault was present at 
the point of sale. They also thought that if the repair wasnt correct, this wasnt the fault of 
the finance company given the time that had passed since Mr C had owned the car. They 
thought that it was likely that this was wear and tear. 
Mr C wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint as he considers 
that the investigator has taken the side of the finance company and his evidence shows that 
the car wasnt fit for purpose when it was supplied to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBL, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out that if any faults occur outside the first six months it 
is the responsibility of the consumer to show that they make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
The car that was supplied to Mr C was seven years old, had been driven for 73,500 miles 
and had a price of £3,495. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
Mr C says there were issues with the car in August 2019 which resulted in him taking the car 
to his mechanic and he says there was a repair to the DPF and a resetting of the engine 
warning light. Mr C contacted CBL in September 2019 complaining about the quality of the 
car and was advised to return it to the dealership and complain to CBL if he did not get it 
resolved. As this fault occurred within the first six months the dealership ought to have been 
given an opportunity to inspect and repair the car. The dealership state that no repairs were 
made within the first six months. Mr C hasnt been able to provide any information about 
what repair was carried out by his mechanic in August 2019 and so I dont have any 
independent information about the nature of the fault or the repair. In these circumstances, I 
cant say that this fault was there or developing at the point of sale.
The car needed repairs to the exhaust system in January 2020 but it doesnt appear that this 
is related to the DPF problem and is likely to have been as a result of wear and tear. I would 
expect a car of this age and mileage to need exhaust system repairs. In March 2020 Mr C 
says that the supplying dealership repaired the DPF by power washing it and he paid for this 
repair which is confirmed by his bank statement. The supplying dealership havent provided 
any evidence about the repair work that was carried out on this occasion and Mr C hasnt 
provided an invoice or other confirmation of the work carried out.  So, I cant say what 
exactly what repair was done or what process the dealership used. 
Mr C told the independent engineer that the DPF was power hosed. The engineer confirms 
in his report that if this was the case then this has likely caused engine damage. His report 
doesnt confirm that he has inspected the DPF and so I cant conclude from his report that 
he has satisfied himself that this is in fact what happened here. In any event, even if it is the 
poor repair that has caused the fault, I cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. At the point of inspection Mr C had travelled over 26,000 miles in the car. It 
seems unlikely that if the fault was present or developing at the point of sale given the miles 
Mr C has travelled. 
Theres clearly a fault with the engine but Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr C. Although Mr C says there was an 
early fault, I cant conclude that this was related to the DPF or that the repair didnt fix the 
problem. Further repairs were carried out in March and July 2020 but again I have no 
evidence that these faults were related. Mr C has been able to use the car for around fifteen 
months and to drive more than 26,000 miles in it before the car has failed. Although it is 
suggested that the July 2020 repair was badly carried out, I havent got any evidence about 
this and so Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr C.
I understand the point Mr C is making with respect to DPF and I do understand why he 
thinks the car wasnt fit for purpose. I sympathise with Mr C for the issues that hes had with 
the car and for the repairs that it now needs  but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require CBL to allow Mr C to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any compensation to him or to 
take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman