DRN-2607745
The complaint
Mr S complained about the advice he received from Wise Financial Consulting Limited to 
buy a level payment annuity rather than a drawdown plan. Mr S has been represented by a 
claims management company, who I refer to below as F.
What happened
In January 2013 Mr S met with one of Wises advisors. The advisor completed a fact find 
which recorded details of Mr Ss financial situation and his pension requirements. The key 
information in respect of this complaint in the fact find is:
Mr S had two pension schemes that he wanted to draw benefits from
Mr S had savings in a deposit account, but no other investments
Mr S had a conservative attitude to risk  which according to a table in the fact find 
correlated to him wanting to take no risk whatsoever with his pension income [for 
completeness, the other options were cautious (which meant Mr S was prepared to take 
a limited risk with his pension income) and medium to speculative (which meant Mr S 
was prepared to accept an increased risk with his pension income)]
it was important for Mr S to provide a pension for Mrs S after he died
Mr S wasnt interested in ensuring that his pension kept up with the rise in the cost of 
living (which would in turn mean lower starting pension payments)
Mr S wasnt interested in ensuring that if he died within a set period of time his estate 
received the value of all payments that would have been made  a further comment said 
Mr S didnt want to place a guarantee on the pension as he felt his children would inherit 
a substantial amount anyway.
A few days later the advisor wrote to Mr S outlining his recommendation and the reasons for 
it. The key information in respect of this complaint in the letter is:
Mr Ss attitude to risk was discussed in detail and he didnt want to take any risk with his 
retirement income
the options available were highlighted and discussed in a bit more detail:
odrawing benefits from the existing provider  Mr S could take the tax free cash 
available but the current provider didnt have the option to provide Mrs S a 
pension if Mr S died first
odrawing the tax free cash allowed from the existing provider and buying an 
annuity with a different provider  shopping around could increase the level of 
income; but income depended on several factors, including the type of pension 
chosen
omoving to a drawdown pension  Mr S could take the tax free cash available and 
instead of buying an annuity the remainder of the fund would remain invested
capped drawdown  income can be withdrawn from the invested fund 
each year; the maximum amount of income is capped
flexible drawdown  there is no limit on the amount that can be withdrawn 
each year; but Mr S would have to have income of at least £20,000 per 
annum from other secured pension assets
omoving to a phased retirement  the pension fund is spilt into equal segments 
which can be phased in over a number of years; the remaining segments 
continue to be invested
omoving to a combination of the above  essentially a combination of drawdown 
and phased retirement
the drawdown, phased retirement and combination options were discounted as Mr S 
indicated that he wanted a fixed level of income with no risk
the different annuity options were outlined:
ounit linked and with profit annuity  this was discounted as Mr S wanted a fixed 
and ongoing income stream
oimpaired life annuity  Mr Ss good health meant he couldnt benefit from this
olevel annuity  Mr S would receive a higher income initially (compared to an 
annuity that increased over time) and if inflation remained low it could take 20+ 
years for an increasing pension to match a level annuitys overall return
oRetail Price Index (RPI) and Limited Price Indexation (LPI) escalation  the 
annuity would be index-linked to the RPI or LPI so the income would rise with 
inflation and maintain its value
ofixed rate escalation  the income would increase each year by a fixed 
percentage.
The advisor recommended that Mr S buy a level payment annuity. This meant he would 
receive a regular pension payment of the same amount for the rest of his life. He said Mr S 
had decided that it made sense to have a higher level payment at the outset, rather than a 
lower index-linked income, due to the number of years it would take for an increasing annuity 
to reach the same income as a level annuity.
Mr S followed the advisors recommendation and bought a level annuity.
In August 2019 F complained to Wise about the advice Mr S received. In essence F felt the 
advice was unsuitable as the various options werent presented to Mr S in a fair and 
balanced way and Wise didnt act in his best interest when recommending a level annuity 
when there were more attractive options available. F made various points and arguments in 
support of the complaint:
annuity rates in 2013 were near all-time record lows
Mr Ss attitude to risk was recorded in 2013 no/low risk" and "limited risk"; however he 
would have been willing to take a small amount of risk in order to have a higher 
retirement income than was available from an annuity if hed been properly informed of 
the different options available and of the effect that inflation would have on the future 
purchasing power of his retirement income
because Mr Ss income from the annuity doesnt increase, its purchasing power is 
eroded each year by inflationMr S wasnt properly informed of the advantages of a low-cost, low-risk income 
drawdown plan
oF gave an example that a well-diversified portfolio of low-cost index funds would 
mean a drawdown plan carried minimal risk and could provide a much higher 
lifetime income, which increased each year in line with inflation
oto illustrate the point, F said from 1985 to 2018 the average annual return from a 
simple low-risk portfolio of 40% UK Equities and 60% UK Bonds was 9.2%; and 
in only four of those years would the portfolio's value have decreased
a large and low-cost index fund provider offered a fund to UK retail investors where the 
total expense ratio of the fund is 0.15% per year and the average annual net returns 
since 2011 were around 7.75% per year; if Mr S invested in this fund he would now be 
significantly better off
Ultimately, F said Mr S would have taken a small amount of risk and chosen a low-risk/low 
cost drawdown plan if hed been made fully aware of the advantages and disadvantages of 
the different options available; which in turn would mean he would be better off today. The 
redress F sought for Mr S was based on the notional current value of a drawdown plan, if the 
funds had been invested according to the FTSE Private Investors Income Index.
Wise didnt think it had done anything wrong. It felt Mr S had been properly advised given 
the information in the fact find. In summary, it said:
the regulators guidance at the time was that drawdown was likely to be unsuitable to 
someone in Mr Ss position
there is no such thing as a low-risk drawdown  Fs example of a fund investing in 40% 
UK Equities didnt match Mr Ss attitude to risk
Mr S had been made aware of all options
Mr S said at the time that he didnt want his pension income to keep up with the rise in 
the cost of living, and he didnt want to take any risk whatsoever with his pension income
the risk associated with the funds F had referred to (where the returns were around 
7.75% per year and in the proposed redress) was far higher than the no risk Mr S said 
in 2013 that he was prepared to take. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the options 
were sufficiently explained to Mr S, and that the advice was suitable given the information in 
the fact find.
F disagreed. It remained of the view that the advice to purchase the annuity was unsuitable 
and that Wise had failed to present the options to Mr S in a fair and balanced way. In 
addition to the arguments previously made, F said that a level annuity isnt a "no-risk" option, 
and a low-cost/low-risk income drawdown plan would have been more suitable.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Ive repeated that below. It forms part of my final decision.Issue for me to determine
Ultimately, the issue I need to determine is whether Wise treated Mr S fairly. For me, the two 
main issues I need to consider and decide in that respect are whether the advice Mr S 
received to buy an annuity was suitable and, if so, whether the advice Mr S received to by a 
level annuity was suitable.
Relevant rules
There were various regulations set by the regulator that were in force at the time of the 
advice. They are in COBS, which replaced the COB rulebook. F referred to two of them in its 
submission to Wise:
COBS 2.1.1  a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client
COBS 4.5.6  if information compares relevant business, relevant investments, or 
persons who carry on relevant business, a firm must ensure that the comparison is 
meaningful and presented in a fair and balanced way.
In addition, there is:
COBS 9.2.1  a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation is suitable for its client; and when making the recommendation the firm 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the clients:
oknowledge and experience in the relevant investment field
ofinancial situation, and
oinvestment objectives
so as to enable it to make the recommendation which is suitable for the client
COBS 9.2.2  a firm needs to get enough information from the customer to be able to 
make sure the recommendation meets their objectives, theyre able to bear any related 
investment risk and they understand the risks involved in the transaction
COBS 9.2.6  if a firm doesnt obtain enough information to assess suitability, it mustnt 
make a recommendation.
The over-riding regulatory principle of the rules is that Wise had a duty to treat Mr S fairly.
Relevant documentary evidence
The two documents Ive seen that I consider to be the most important to my determination of 
what happened at the time of the advice are the fact find document and the subsequent 
advice letter sent by the advisor.
Mr Ss attitude to risk
The fact find says that Mr S wanted to take no risk with his pension income; but F suggests 
that Mr S would in fact have been prepared to take some risk if hed been properly informed.
The advice letter said that Mr S and the advisor had a detailed discussion regarding Mr Ss 
attitude to risk. So I think, on balance, any discussion on the subject was more than a simple tick box exercise. The other options that were available in the fact find indicate that Mr S 
chose the no risk option over the other two riskier choices.
I accept that Mr Ss attitude to risk at the time he met with the advisor might have changed 
once he became aware of the options. However, I consider the fact find to be the most 
persuasive piece of evidence Ive seen which reflects what was discussed when Mr S met 
with the advisor. Its contemporaneous documentation from the time, so its not subject to 
hindsight or faded memories. It was also signed by Mr S, so I think he probably saw it at the 
time. And the information contained within it is clear and unambiguous, and in terms I think 
Mr S would likely have understood.
So while Ive taken the latest submissions into account, in light of the above Im satisfied the 
fact find is an accurate record of Mr Ss attitude to risk at the time he met with the advisor. I 
therefore conclude that Mr S wanted to take no risk with his pension income. I think Mr Ss 
aversion to risk, and my conclusion on it, is supported by the fact he only had savings in 
deposit accounts (which are low risk) and he didnt have any other investments.
Was the advice to buy an annuity suitable?
As Ive outlined above, the advisor was required to gather and consider sufficient information 
from Mr S to ensure that his recommendation met Mr Ss objectives. In my view, the 
information contained within the fact find met this requirement. In addition to what Ive listed 
above, the advisor got information about Mr Ss current income, assets and financial 
commitments. The information on the whole was sufficient to give the advisor a picture of 
Mr Ss financial position, objectives, attitude to risk and capacity for suffering loss.
There were several options available to Mr S in terms of the type of pension he could have. 
F has made the comment that annuity rates in 2013 were at an all-time low. Its true that 
annuity rates were low in 2013; but that in itself, in my opinion, doesnt automatically mean 
the advice given to Mr S to buy an annuity was unsuitable. It needs to be compared to what 
other options were available to Mr S and ultimately depends on Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time.
Ive already discussed Mr Ss attitude to risk above. Further to that, apart from his state 
pension this was Mr Ss only pension income. So he had no capacity to suffer a loss on it 
he didnt, for example, have other pensions or investments he could fall back on if this 
income was lost. In my view, an annuity was the only option that closely matched Mr Ss 
(in)capacity to suffer a loss and his conservative attitude to risk. His income wasnt exposed 
to investment risk and it provided planning security in retirement and was guaranteed for life.
So I think an annuity was suitable for Mr S.
Was the advice to buy a level annuity suitable?
There were several options available to Mr S in terms of the type of annuity he could have. 
Mr S was clear that he didnt want to accept a lower starting annuity for the benefit of 
ensuring that his income kept up with inflation. All the annuity options were presented to 
Mr S in the advice letter in a clear, fair and balanced way. The letter set out and explained 
the available options and I think equal weight and consideration was given to each one.
It is true that a level annuity will lose its buying power due to inflation. But I dont think that 
means its risky  in the sense that it shouldnt have been recommended. There was (and 
remains) no risk to Mr Ss pension income as he will continue to receive the same payments 
for the remainder of his life. The reason his pension income will lose buying power is 
because he specifically told the advisor that he wasnt interested receiving lower income initially to ensuring that his pension increased in line with inflation over time and maintained 
its value.
Im satisfied the advisor sufficiently informed Mr S about the effect inflation would have on 
his future income. He wasnt explicit in his explanation of the level annuity that its buying 
power would reduce over time. But I think that was inherent from what he said about the 
annuities that increased ie that they would maintain their value (or purchasing power) as 
they increased in line with the relevant index.
Mr S was given clear annuity options to choose from and given his stated preferences in this 
regard I think Wises advice to buy a level annuity was suitable in the circumstances.
More suitable options
F argued that a drawdown would have been more suitable. There were two types of 
drawdown mentioned by the advisor. I dont think flexible drawdown would have been 
available as Mr S didnt have a minimum secure income of £20,000 from other sources. A 
capped drawdown didnt have such a requirement, so would have been an option for Mr S.
Even if the drawdown was low risk (as suggested by F) that doesnt align with the fact that at 
the time the advice was given Mr S didnt want to take any risk whatsoever with his pension 
income.
In any event, Im not persuaded that a drawdown plan is low risk. The pension funds remain 
invested and are exposed to investment fluctuations so while theres a chance they will grow 
theres also a chance they will reduce. The pot also reduces if ongoing charges arent 
outweighed by investment returns, which generally tend to be lower the more cautious an 
investor is. And theres the risk that withdrawals and not high enough returns might lead to a 
consumer running out of money before they die or having to heavily reduce their income 
later in retirement. These are real risks that cant and shouldnt be underestimated.
F referred to three types of portfolio/fund in support of his argument that a drawdown was 
the most sensible alternative. Given what Ive said above about the risky nature of 
drawdowns, I think this largely falls away. Nevertheless, while it might be true that the 
returns from the suggested portfolio was 9.2%, the portfolio invested 40% of the funds 
invested in equities. In respect of the fund where the returns were around 7.75% per year, 
Ive seen a document titled Key Investor Information. Under the heading Risk and reward 
profile it shows that the fund is rated 5 (out of 7)  with 0 being no/low risk and 7 being 
high risk. In respect of the Index F referred to in respect of the redress, 52.5% of the fund is 
invested I equities. So I dont think any of the portfolio/funds F referred to match Mr Ss 
attitude to risk at the time or Fs submission that Mr S was willing to take a small amount of 
risk. I would also like to note that past investment returns shouldnt be used as a guarantee 
for future returns.
For the above reasons, I conclude that a drawdown was unsuitable for Mr S given his 
objectives, attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
F also argued that the options available to Mr S werent properly explained to him in a fair or 
balanced way. That in turn leads to the point about Mr S being prepared to take a small 
amount of risk in order to get a higher retirement income if the options had been properly 
explained.
Ive just concluded above that a drawdown plan was unsuitable for Mr S. So I dont think it 
really matters in this case whether or not the option was properly explained  this only really 
becomes relevant if several suitable options are presented. Nevertheless, Ive commented on the point for completeness. As Ive set out above, the advice letter outlined the various 
pension and annuity options that were available, and explained why each option (apart from 
the level annuity) was being discounted. In my opinion, the way the options were set out was 
sufficiently fair and balanced as equal weight and consideration was given to each option.
Conclusion
F said its clear there were more attractive options than the annuity Wises advisor 
recommended. But apart from the drawdown option (which Ive concluded was unsuitable) 
he hasnt said what those options were or provided anything showing that they aligned with 
Mr Ss objectives, capacity to suffer loss and attitude to risk at the time.
Mr S wanted a secure pension with no risk to his future income. Mr S also wanted pension 
income that didnt take account of inflation. In my opinion, the advice to buy a level annuity 
was suitable and met his requirements and objectives.
I therefore conclude that Wise treated Mr S fairly and acted in his best interest.
Responses to my provisional decision
Wise confirmed that it didn't have anything further to add. F didnt accept my provisional 
decision and asked me to change it. It made various points which Ive outlined and 
commented on below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Fs response to my provisional decision contains any new points that I havent 
already considered  theyre essentially the same points it made previously, which I 
discussed in my provisional decision. Im not therefore persuaded to change my mind.
The first point F made was that an investor can only decide how much risk theyre prepared 
to take if the options are explained to them in a fair and balanced manner. In my provisional 
decision I concluded that the options had been presented to Mr S in a fair and balanced way. 
I also concluded that Mr S wanted to take no risk with his pension income. I gave my 
reasons for those conclusions.
The next point F made was that the two main options for Mr S were an annuity or an income 
drawdown plan, neither of which it said is risk free  the main risk with level annuities being 
that purchasing power of the income reduces over time due to inflation; and the main risk 
with drawdown plans being short-term fluctuations in the value of the fund.
I agree with F that, technically, a drawdown plan was an option for Mr S. However, in my 
provisional decision I concluded that the only option that closely matched Mr Ss capacity to 
suffer a loss and his attitude to risk was an annuity. I gave my reasons for that conclusion. I 
also said that a drawdown didnt match Mr Ss risk profile because of the risks (which I 
outlined) involved.
I accepted that with a level annuity the purchasing power of the income reduces over time; 
however I explained why I didnt think that meant it was risky. I also said the reason Mr Ss 
pension income will lose purchasing power is because he wasnt interested in ensuring that 
his pension increased in line with inflation over time.The third point F made was that a sensibly diversified portfolio of funds with a low-risk asset 
allocation and with fixed regular withdrawals equivalent to those of a level annuity has 
virtually zero risk of failing to maintain that level of income for the rest of an investor's life. It 
further said it is virtually certain to provide substantially more total income to the investor 
than a level annuity.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think a drawdown plan is low risk. I 
disagree with Fs view that there is a low-risk drawdown. I also disagree that theres virtually 
no risk a drawdown will fail to maintain a similar income for the rest of an investors life. The 
mere fact the remaining pot could reduce or run out altogether before the investor dies (for 
reasons I outlined in my provisional decision) is evidence of this.
Fs final point was that if Mr S had been properly given all the information it would have been 
easy for him to conclude that a drawdown plan would be in his best interests. I said in my 
provisional decision that as Id concluded a drawdown was unsuitable for Mr S, I didnt think 
it mattered whether the option was properly explained. I nevertheless concluded  and 
explained why  that the options were set out in a sufficiently fair and balanced way.
In summary, the fundamental basis of Fs argument seems to me to be that Mr S could have 
taken a low risk drawdown which would have been more suitable than the level annuity. I 
disagree with F on both fronts. I dont think a drawdown is low risk; and I dont think a 
drawdown fitted within Mr Ss wish to take no risk with his pension income and his 
(in)capacity to suffer any loss. My conclusion therefore remains that Wise treated Mr S fairly 
and acted in his best interest.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman