DRN-1094510
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt refund the charges it 
applied to his personal bank account for using his arranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr T was experiencing financial hardship due to ill health and he was regularly using his 
arranged overdraft facility. He asked Barclays to refund all of the charges it had applied to 
his account from when he started using the facility. Barclays had already refunded some 
charges in response to a request Mr T made the previous year. It offered to waive the 
charges for that month but it wouldnt refund any more. 
Mr T complained to Barclays because he felt it wasnt taking into consideration his financial 
hardship or health problems. Barclays told Mr T that it had thought about his personal 
circumstances but its commitment to treating customers fairly didnt mean it had to refund 
correctly applied charges. Barclays gave Mr T the contact details for free money advice 
organisations and its own advisors, where hed be able to ask for help.
He was unhappy with Barclays' final response so Mr T brought his complaint to us. To 
resolve his complaint he would like Barclays to refund all of the account charges.
While she sympathised with his situation, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
She looked at the evidence provided, which included bank statements, evidence of financial 
hardship and ill health, and Barclays response to his complaint. However, she didnt think 
the evidence indicated that Barclays had treated Mr T unfairly.
Our investigator explained that she could only look at the charges applied to his account 
since the refund Barclays had given him the year before. That was because Barclays sent 
Mr T a final response letter at the same time as the refund, which gave him six months to 
bring his complaint to us. She explained that he didnt bring his complaint to us in time so we 
dont have permission to look at anything covered in that letter.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had applied the charges correctly and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. So Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. Although she 
understood why he had asked Barclays to refund the charges, she didnt think that its 
commitment to treating customers fairly meant it should automatically refund charges on 
request. Our investigator felt that by refunding that months charges and directing him to free 
money advice services, it had treated Mr T fairly and sympathetically.
Mr T didnt agree because he thought that Barclays had contributed to his financial hardship.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ts complaint and additional comments but Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly Id like to say how sorry I am that Mr T found himself in such a difficult situation. It 
cant have been easy and I can understand why he wouldve been looking for help from 
every possible avenue. I genuinely hope that his situation has improved.
In reaching my decision, Ive looked at why Barclays applied charges to Mr Ts account, 
whether it did so fairly, and whether it shouldve done anything differently. Our investigator 
has explained that because of our rules and when Mr T referred his complaint to us, we can 
only consider charges applied since the previous refund. I agree with what shes said, so in 
my decision, Ill only be considering the charges and Barclays response to Mr Ts difficulties 
from its first final response letter and refund onwards. 
Mr T had an arranged overdraft and I can see on his bank statements that he used it 
regularly. The terms and conditions of his account provided details of the daily charge which 
Barclays would apply when he used the overdraft so he wouldve been aware of the 
charges. Ive compared the documented charges to those applied to Mr Ts account and I 
can see that it applied them correctly. So Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to charge 
Mr T for using his overdraft.
Mr T told Barclays about his financial difficulties and health problems and asked it to refund 
the charges. As it had applied the charges correctly, Barclays refused. I understand Mr T 
made his request in the hope that it would help him with his financial situation. Ive not seen 
anything to indicate that he thought Barclays was wrong to apply the charges. I see Barclays 
waived the charges for that month and directed Mr T to money advice organisations which 
wouldve been able to help him. I think that was a helpful thing to do here, but I dont think its 
commitment to treating customers fairly and sympathetically should necessarily extend to 
refunding correctly applied charges. Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly here and I 
wouldnt have expected it to do any more.
Finally, Ive noted Mr Ts additional comment that Barclays contributed to his financial 
hardship. I accept that the charges increased his overdraft balance. However, having looked 
at his bank statements its clear that he used his overdraft facility regularly and by doing so, 
he was essentially borrowing money from Barclays, which I think it was fair to then apply a 
charge for, in line with the terms of the account. So, while I realise that the charges didnt 
help, they were relatively low amounts in the context of the overdraft amounts.
In summary, I can see no reason why Barclays shouldve refunded the charges when Mr T 
asked it to and there is no evidence that it treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
 
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman