DRN-3463059
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that the currency exchange fees that Skrill Limited applied to money that he 
transferred through his account.
What happened
Mr T transferred an amount in Euros into his Swiss Franc Skrill account. This led to Skrill 
converting the incoming amount from Euros to Swiss Francs and applying a deposit fee and 
currency conversion fee to do so. Mr T wasnt happy about this, or that another currency 
conversion fee was applied to the balance by Skrill when he transferred the money out of his 
Swiss Franc account to another Euro account. So, he raised a complaint.
Skrill looked at Mr Ts complaint. But they felt that theyd informed Mr T as to the fees that 
would be applied for the transfers, and they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr T 
by then applying those fees.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Skrills response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Skrill had acted 
unfairly towards Mr T, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mr T spoke to Skrill before instructing the transfer of Euros 
into his Swiss Franc Skrill account and that he was informed by Skrill at that time as to the 
fees that would be applied to that transfer.
Having listened to the telephone call between Mr T and Skrill, its notable that both the 
deposit fee and conversion fee are discussed. And while Skrills agent does give Mr T an 
incorrect rate for the conversion fee (3.99% as opposed to the correct 4.49%), the correct 
fee amount of 4.49% would have been displayed on screen to Mr T for his information before 
he confirmed the transfer.
Mr T has explained to this service that he feels that Skrills fees were too high. But it isnt 
within the remit of this service to instruct a business such as Skrill to change the fees they 
charge, but only to assess whether the charging of those fees has been done fairly. And in 
this instance, given that Mr T was made aware of the fees before he undertook the transfer, 
and then decided to proceed with it, I find it difficult to conclude anything other than the 
deposit and conversion fees were charged fairly by Skrill on this occasion.
Mr T does mention on the telephone call with Skrill that he felt the fees were high, and Mr T 
did ask Skrills agent about the possibility of opening a secondary account designated to 
Euros, so that a currency conversion wouldnt be necessary, but quickly decided against it.
Finally, when Mr T transferred the money from his Swiss Franc Skrill account to another 
Euro account, a message was displayed onscreen for Mr Ts information that a conversion to 
Euros would be required because the payment provider didnt support Swiss Francs. Again, 
this provided Mr T with an opportunity to make alternative arrangements if he wasnt happy 
with the conversion and the fee. And again, Mr T decided to proceed with that transfer.
As such, Im satisfied that Mr T instructed these transfers with a full understanding of the 
consequences of that instruction, including the applicable fees. If Mr T wasnt happy with the 
fees that he knew would be charged, then he was under no obligation to proceed with the 
transfers. Im also satisfied that Mr T was aware of a possible alternate course of action  
the opening of a secondary Skrill Euro account  that would have avoided the need for 
conversion fees to have been applied in the first instance. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Skrill have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise 
this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman