DRN-3173824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for a hotel
booking that they had to cancel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They were also unhappy with
the service provided by UKI in handling the claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance alongside their current account. The policy is
underwritten by UKI.
They booked a trip to go to Australia to see their son and his family. Their son lives in New
Zealand but was meeting Mr and Mrs T to have a family holiday together. As they had an
opportunity to extend their trip, Mr and Mrs T decided to spend a few further days on their
own in a more remote part of Australia. They made a separate booking on 10 January 2020 
for this part of their trip and paid £379.48. 
On 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. They were due to depart on 21 
March 2020; however, Australia closed its borders. The FCO guidance remained in place at 
the point Mr and Mrs T were due to travel. So, they had to cancel their trip. And the UK went 
into lockdown from 23 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs T booked flights, various hotels and car hire for their trip. They managed to
recover most of the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip. They received refunds
for all of those except for the hotel for which theyve now put in a claim with UKI.
They cancelled the booking on 19 March 2020 and received an email from the hotel on the
same day to confirm they couldnt offer a refund but would provide a credit note for a future
booking. The credit note was valid up until March 2023, it wasnt transferable, and any future
booking had to be booked directly with the hotel. So, they submitted a claim to UKI to
recover their loss as they said they wouldnt ever repeat the same booking because it was a 
one-off trip. 
UKI assessed the claim. It said as Mr and Mrs T were provided with a credit note, it
considered the cost was recoverable. UKI therefore declined the claim. UKI accepted the
service it provided to Mr and Mrs T could have been better and offered Mr and Mrs T £150 in
recognition of this.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said as there was a credit voucher
available until March 2023 and there is a window to rebook the hotel by the expiry date of
end of 2023. If, by that point, Mr and Mrs T showed they werent able to use the credit 
voucher, then they could ask UKI to reassess their claim. He said the cost of the hotel was
recoverable and therefore didnt think UKI had treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its
been passed to me.
In summary, Mr and Mrs T say:
The hotel voucher is valid until March 2023 and not until the end of 2023;
Its extremely unlikely that they will go to this remote part of Australia by March 2023 
and asking them to start the claim with UKI at this point would put pressure on them 
and would be a waste of time; and
Theyre still left with a voucher for a hotel in a remote corner of Australia which they 
know they will have no reason to visit before its expiry.
I understand UKI offered Mr and Mrs T £150 for the poor service they received. Theres no
further dispute on this issue. I wont therefore be looking at this issue in my provisional
decision and will focus on the crux of the complaint on whether the claim should be declined. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 November 2021 to both parties and said the following:
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ts complaint.
Was the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis
of Mr and Mrs Ts contract with UKI.
On page 19 of the policy booklet, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy say
UKI will, in certain circumstances:
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip
costs if you have to cancel your trip, including:
..
Commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.

And advice from the FCO against all but essential travel is listed as a reason for 
cancellation.
In this case, theres no dispute that at the time Mr and Mrs T were due to travel, there was
FCO advice against all but essential travel abroad. 
Ive seen a copy of the booking confirmation for the hotel and Im satisfied the 
accommodation was booked in January 2020. Therefore, it seems to me that the claim falls 
within the scope of this cover.
Should the claim be settled?
The Specific Exclusions section of the policy on page 18 states that UKI will not pay for
any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and Mrs
Ts policy doesnt provide cover for costs that can be recovered from elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs T were offered a credit voucher for the hotel booking which is valid until March2023. Generally, unless the terms of a voucher are unreasonably restrictive and/or a
consumer has exceptional circumstances, Id consider a credit voucher to mean the
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
However, in this case, Mr and Mrs T have provided evidence to show the credit voucher is
particularly limiting and why it isnt possible for them to use this credit voucher. Theyve
explained the trip to Australia was a one-off and was arranged as a family holiday with
their son who lives in New Zealand. The hotel was booked as an extension to their holiday
with their family and will never be repeated. And, theyve said its unlikely they will ever be
visiting that remote part of Australia again.
Ive also seen evidence of the email communication between Mr and Mrs T and the hotel. I
can see a voucher has been issued for a future booking to be made by end of March
2023. The voucher isnt transferable, and a booking has to be made directly with the hotel.
Taking everything into account and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it
was reasonable for UKI to consider the offer of the credit voucher from the hotel as
meaning Mr and Mrs T had recovered their costs from elsewhere. In any event, Im
satisfied, from what theyve told us, thats its highly unlikely Mr and Mrs T will ever be able
to use their voucher in the way it was intended. Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs T wont
be able to repeat the trip in the way they had initially planned. The credit voucher, while it
has an expiry date of end of March 2023, is not transferable, which makes it restrictive. I
think therefore the terms of voucher are restrictive and, that, alongside the circumstances
of their trip, means I think on balance, its unlikely theyll ever be able to use it in the future.
I can also see theyve taken all reasonable steps to mitigate all their other losses and
recovered all of those from the relevant providers. Additionally, Ive considered the travel
situation with the Australian borders and the restrictions placed and which still are in place.
Theres no indication so far whether those will be lifted which will allow safe travel to the
country at this point in time - and that hasnt changed very much since 2020. So, while this
doesnt make a difference in terms of whether the claim ought to be settled overall, travel
to the country is still an issue which adds further valid reasons as to why Im not
persuaded the cost of the hotel can be recovered by Mr and Mrs T.
Conclusion
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to
accept Mr and Mrs Ts cancellation claim. Im not persuaded that the claim has been
declined fairly as the credit voucher is restrictive and I dont think the cost of the hotel is 
recoverable. My provisional decision is that UKI should pay the remainder of Mr and Mrs
Ts claim, together with interest.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. Both have also accepted it and 
have no further comments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason 
for me to depart from the findings of the provisional decision. 
As such, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Taking everything into consideration, Im 
not satisfied their claim was declined fairly. I think it would be fair for UKI to accept Mr and Mrs Ts cancellation claim, subject to their policy terms and conditions. 
Putting things right
UKI needs to put things right and do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs Ts cancellation claim, subject to any applicable policy excesses 
and/or limits, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim until the date the settlement is paid; and
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much it has taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman