DRN-2733129
The complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance, have 
unfairly turned down a claim he made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr H had taken his pet to the vets and was told she had heavy tartar build 
up. The vet recommended manually cleaning her teeth to see if there was any improvement 
 and at the next check-up Mr H was told his pets dental hygiene had improved. Mr H 
planned to have his pet spayed in the near future, and at the same time have her teeth 
cleaned to reduce the number of times she went under general anaesthetic.
Mr H says everything appeared OK, but later on his pet went off her food a little bit, so he 
took her back to the vets. The vet said Mr Hs pet needed her teeth to be checked and 
potentially extracted  and she was booked in the next day for this. Mr H rang UKI who 
advised the claim would be covered. 
But, when the claim was actually submitted, UKI turned it down saying the dental work 
hadnt been done within three months of it first being noted. So, Mr H complained.
UKI said they could see Mr Hs pet had been to the vets on 11 October 2019 for some 
vaccinations. In this visit is where the heavy tartar is mentioned. The notes on the next visit 
of 8 November 2019 said there was moderate dental tartar. And UKI say Mr Hs pet was 
next back at the vets in June 2020 where eight teeth were extracted. UKI added Mr Hs vet 
had said their recommendation was for Mr Hs pet to have her dental treatment at the same 
time as being spayed  and that couldnt be done until she was next in season. UKI said one 
of their nurses had reviewed Mr Hs claim, along with the medical history and vets letter  
and felt Mr Hs pet could have been spayed from January 2020, but didnt go to the vets 
again until June 2020. Because he didnt have the treatment done within three months of the 
recommendation, and Mr Hs pets condition significantly worsened due to the delay, they 
wouldnt meet the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
UKI also accepted theyd told Mr H his claim would be covered but said the adviser didnt 
fully explain the terms and conditions. They said though because the call took place after 
Mr Hs pet had been admitted, and treatment agreed on, it hadnt impacted the treatment 
she received. Finally, UKI said Mr H had asked for transcripts of the calls hed had with them 
and been incorrectly told there was a charge  and that hed found the adviser abrasive. UKI 
accepted the call could have been handled better. And, for these errors, paid Mr H £60.
Unhappy with this, Mr H asked us to look into things. He said UKI were ignoring the advice 
from the vet that said he should try and clean the teeth manually. And theyre also ignoring 
that this was working with no mention of heavy tartar build up in a visit a few weeks later. 
One of our investigators considered everything, and overall found UKI had acted fairly by 
turning down the claim under the policy terms  because treatment hadnt been carried out 
within three months of the recommendation as required. She also said she could understand 
why Mr H would be frustrated about being told his claim would be paid  but we wouldnt 
generally make a business honour their mistake  instead we consider the impact of that 
mistake. And, she could see Mr H had already agreed to the treatment before knowing 
whether itd be covered. Overall, she felt £60 for this, and the way the call he made was 
handled, was fair. 
Across a number of responses Mr H explained his reasons for not agreeing with our 
investigator. Ive summarised in my own words the points most relevant to his complaint:
Mr H says the vet prescribed the self-cleaning, this wasnt just decided by him. And in 
this first visit in October 2019 no recommendations were made about a scale and 
polish.
The notes in November 2019 saying the tartar was moderate showed what he was 
doing was working. And the vet said he could continue with the cleaning regime, and 
if he wanted to bring his pet back for the spaying then he could look at her teeth and 
gums again. 
The vet didnt recommend the teeth extractions until the day of the procedure  in 
earlier visits he was advised to resolve the tartar build up. He says at no time before 
10 June 2020 were teeth extractions discussed. 
There was no mention by the vet that failure to have his pets teeth cleaned under 
general anaesthetic would cause more problems  so he doesnt believe UKIs nurse 
should have said this.
The only relevance spaying has to this case is that he was thinking of combining the 
procedures. 
He doesnt accept that being advised wrongly means UKI dont have to pay the 
claim. UKI trained their employee, so they should stand by their mistakes.
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that Id only expect an insurer to pay for a claim if its covered 
under the policy terms  or if theyve made a mistake leading to costs for their policyholder.
In Mr Hs claim UKI have relied on a policy term which essentially says no cover is offered if 
any treatment, including a scale and polish, recommended by the vet isnt carried out within 
three months of that recommendation.
The first visit where teeth are mentioned, and what UKI is relying on, is 11 October 2019. 
And its not in dispute that no procedure was carried out by the vets until June 2020  so, 
outside the three-month timeframe.
The key question then is whether there was a recommendation for the purposes of the policy 
terms made on 11 October 2019. To help me decide this, Ive looked at the notes recorded 
by the vet at the time, and their follow up letters.
The notes recorded on 11 October 2019 say Adv dental, heavy tartar and O keen on 
spaying, adv 3 mnths post season. Can possibly do dental on same time.And, in a letter sent by the vet who performed the teeth extractions, they said where she 
was described as having heavy dental tartarrecommended that (Mr Hs dog) have a 
dental procedure at the same time as being neutered. 
So, I think its fair to say on 11 October 2019 a dental procedure was recommended. I 
appreciate Mr Hs point that the vet also suggested not doing the procedure just yet. But UKI 
have said both procedures could have taken place in January 2020, but the notes show 
Mr Hs dog wasnt seen again until June 2020 which then resulted in teeth extractions.
Ive also noted Mr Hs comments that his regime of brushing his dogs teeth does seem to 
have improved the dental tartar in the November 2019 visit. But, no dental procedure was 
carried out within three months of the initial recommendation in October 2019  and I cant 
ignore that the claim around eight months later was as a result of eight teeth being extracted. 
UKI have argued the delay meant the treatment was worse. I cant know that for sure, but it 
does seem at least possible.
Mr H also thinks because UKI told him theyd meet the claim then they should stand by that. 
But, our general approach isnt to treat incorrect information as being true  its to consider 
the impact of that information as our investigator explained. And, I can see Mr H had already 
agreed to the treatment, so I dont think Mr H would have done anything differently if hed 
been given the correct information. UKI have paid Mr H £60 for this and for how his call was 
handled which, in the context of this case, I think is fair. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied a dental procedure was recommended, it wasnt 
carried out within three months, and UKI have applied the policy terms fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman