DRN-4090939
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process an international payment he wanted 
to make and provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr K has an account with HSBC. In April 2022, Mr K wanted to make an international 
payment of just under £3,000, from his account via online banking to his father who lives 
overseas. Mr K has explained that his father relies on him for financial support to help cover 
his living expenses.
Mr K says before making the payment he rung HSBC to check that there wouldnt be any 
problems with the money reaching his fathers account. Mr K says that HSBC told him that 
there wouldnt be any issues with him making the payment. So, on 8 April 2022, Mr K 
proceeded to make the payment from his account. However, on 12 April 2022, HSBC 
blocked the payment to complete compliance checks in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. HSBC rejected the payment on 22 April 2022.
Mr K noticed that the payment hadnt debited his account and contacted HSBC to try and 
find out what was happening. Between 12 April and 14 April 2022 Mr K had several 
conversations with HSBC about the payment. HSBC told him that payment was being 
reviewed and couldnt give him a timeframe about when the payment would be released. 
HSBC did tell Mr K that the payment was stopped due to the destination country being 
subject to sanctions.
Mr K continued to call HSBC between 21 April and 5 May 2022, during these calls HSBC 
told Mr K that the payment had been stopped by its compliance team in order to comply with 
its policies. Mr K wasnt happy with this explanation and complained to HSBC. In response 
HSBC said it should have told Mr K sooner that his payment had been rejected and took too 
long to complete its compliance checks. HSBC apologised and offered Mr K £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to our service. He said 
HSBC told him there wouldnt be any issue with making the payment. He wants to know the 
reasons why the bank didnt process it. And said it took the bank far too long to complete its 
checks and tell him his payment was rejected.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. She said that HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong when it stopped Mr Ks payment so that it could complete compliance 
checks. She also said that HSBC hadnt treated him unfairly when it didnt provide him with 
an explanation for not processing his payment. However, she said that HSBC had taken too 
long to complete its checks. She thought HSBCs offer of compensation for the trouble and 
upset the delays caused Mr K was fair. Mr K disagreed. He wants to know why HSBC 
stopped his payment.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that I understand why Mr K is frustrated that he wasnt able to 
make the payment to his father, especially as hes explained to us that his parents rely on 
his financial support for everyday living expenses. So, I can understand the payment was 
important to him.
Firstly, HSBC has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers, which includes ensuring no UK or other international sanctions might 
be breached. Those obligations are overriding in terms of otherwise meeting general 
timeframes for payments to process, which means sometimes legitimate payments are 
sometimes delayed.
In Mr Ks case, a payment he made was flagged for compliance checks. Ive looked at the 
evidence and having done so Im satisfied that the payment Mr K wanted to make went 
through internal checks so that HSBC could satisfy its legal and regulatory obligations. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Ks account also provide for HSBC to stop payments and carry 
out additional checks. Specifically, section 13 sets out the reasons why a payment may not 
be able to made the bank  the payment would cause us to break the law. Or to do it would 
go against a regulation or code we follow, a court order or other duty or requirement. The 
payment could mean we face criticism from any government, regulator, or law enforcement 
agency. So, Im satisfied that HSBCs rejection of Mr Ks payment was reasonable and in 
line with the account terms.
Mr K says he called HSBC before making the payment to check that there wouldnt be any 
problems. Unfortunately, HSBC hasnt been able to provide this service with a recording of 
this call, but if true it must have been confusing for Mr K when he wasnt then able to make 
his payment. HSBC have provided recordings of other conversations it had with Mr K,
based on the timeline and listening to them, Im satisfied that the bank should have told Mr K 
much sooner than it did that his payment had been rejected. Looking at the timeline I agree 
with the investigator that the bank should have let Mr K know by 22 April 2022, especially as 
Mr K called the bank to chase things up. But HSBC didnt let Mr K know until 28 April 2022, 
when it sent him a letter. This meant Mr K was put to the trouble of making further calls to 
the bank in an effort to find out what was happening to his payment. 
HSBC has accepted it should have provided Mr K with better service and offered him £75 
compensation for any trouble and upset it caused by not telling him sooner that his payment 
wasnt going to be completed. And by taking too long to complete its checks. Im satisfied 
that this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve to resolve this aspect of Mr Ks complaint. 
And Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything further. 
Finally, wants HSBC to explain the reason it blocked and rejected his payment. But HSBC 
doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no 
obligation to tell Mr K the reasons, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr K this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require it do so. However, having listened to the calls of the conversations, Mr K had with 
HSBC Im satisfied that, HSBC did provide him with some information about why it had 
stopped the payment, albeit Mr K disagreed with what HSBC told him. So I think Mr K had 
some idea of why his payment wasnt able to be completed.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr K feels about whats happened. But Mr K wanted to make a payment to a country subject to sanctions. HSBC havent acted incorrectly in 
completing compliance checks and rejecting the payment. However, HSBC took too long to 
do so, and should have told Mr K sooner than it did that his payment had been rejected. Im 
satisfied that HSBC have done enough to put things right, so I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I am not going to direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman