DRN-3972817
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna has defaulted his fixed sum loan 
account. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional
decision. I said:
Mr E took out a 24-month fixed sum loan with Klarna on 10 December 2021. The loan was 
for £695.76, and Mr E was required to make 24 monthly payments of £28.99 to repay the 
loan. 
The first payment was due on 5 January 2022. However, Mr E didnt have a connected bank 
account for Klarna to take payment from. Therefore, no payment was received. Klarna sent 
correspondence on 11 January 2022 advising the payment had been missed and that the 
payment due on 5 February 2022 would be double. 
Again, as no connected bank account had been provided the direct debit payment for 5 
February 2022 was also missed. Klarna issued further correspondence that said the account 
was two payments in arrears and that the next payment due date would be 5 March 2022.
On 19 February 2022, Klarna issued a default notice. This explained that Mr E needed to 
repay the arrears of £57.98 before 5 March 2022. The notice went on to say that if this didnt 
happen, Klarna would terminate the agreement effective 5 March 2022 and demand 
repayment of the full outstanding £695.76 balance. 
Mr E didnt make payment before 5 March 2022 and the account was terminated. Notice was 
issued via email to confirm this. Mr E did call to make payment to Klarna on 5 March 2022. 
He has explained that he wasnt able to use the app due to an IT issue. Klarna therefore 
advised Mr E to make payment via bank transfer and he paid £86.97 (the March 2022 
payment plus the £57.98 of arrears). Klarna explained it didnt receive the funds until 8 
March 2022, but that in any event, the account had already been terminated and Mr E made 
aware he needed to pay the full £695.76. 
As the full balance wasnt repaid by the 19 March 2022 deadline given in the termination 
notice, Klarna passed the debt to a debt collection agency. Unhappy with what had 
happened, Mr E complained. Klarna issued its final response in April 2022 and said the 
account had been defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency correctly as payments 
hadnt been made in line with the credit agreement. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. The investigator said Klarna had issued the default notice and as the arrears 
werent cleared before 5 March 2022 as directed, the default had been applied correctly. 
Then as the full balance wasnt repaid in line with the termination notice, the account wasnt 
passed to a debt collection agency unfairly. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said his personal circumstances werent taken into consideration and 
due to these circumstances, he didnt have access to the property where the default notice 
was issued. Additionally, he was misled by Klarnas app into believing the outstanding 
payment of £86.97 was due on 5 March 2022 and not before.
As Mr E disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Firstly, I would like to say that Im very sorry to hear about Mr Es personal circumstances 
leading up to this complaint. I appreciate this must have been an extremely difficult time for 
him. 
I do understand why these personal circumstances wouldve impacted Mr Es ability to set 
up a connected bank account to repay his loan with Klarna. However, Klarna wasnt made 
aware, and it is entitled to request repayment in line with the terms of the agreement that Mr 
E made with it. Therefore, the missed payments recorded for January and February 2022 
are correct. 
As payments werent made in January and February 2022, Klarna issued a default notice. 
Ive considered whether Klarna has acted reasonably in issuing the default notice when it 
did. Having done so I dont believe Klarna did, and Ill explain why. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance states a default normally occurs 
when a credit agreement is three to six months in arrears. In this case a default notice was 
issued by Klarna when Mr E was only two months in arrears. I acknowledge Klarna have 
said that when the account was terminated, Mr E was three months in arrears. Im not 
persuade that is the case, as it does seem he made payment on 5 March 2022 as 
requested.
But in any event, Klarna didnt wait for Mr E to be three months in arrears before issuing a 
default notice, as per the ICOs guidance. I therefore feel the default notice in this case was 
issued prematurely and the termination shouldnt have occurred when it did on 5 March 
2022, as Mr Es account was terminated before the account was ever in three months of 
arrears. 
As mentioned above, I feel that its unfair to say that Mr E didnt make the full required 
payment of £86.97 on 5 March 2022. Mr E followed advice given to him by Klarna to make a 
bank transfer when there was what appeared to be IT issues with the app and connecting a 
bank account. I cant see that Mr E was made aware the payment wouldnt go through that 
same day and so its not unreasonable to say he had made payment correctly. In this 
situation the account would never have been three months in arrears and therefore no 
default wouldve been issued. Also, no late payment wouldve occurred for March 2022.
However, even if I was to say the payment wasnt made until 8 March 2022 (when Klarna 
says it received it), then the earliest a default notice would normally have been issued 
wouldve been 6 March 2022. This would be the day after the payment due date and when 
Mr E was in three months of arrears. Had that been the case, then the arrears wouldve 
been cleared inside 14 days when Klarna received the £86.97 on 8 March 2022. No default 
wouldve then been recorded. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Klarna should remove the default it recorded onto Mr Es credit 
file. It should take Mr Es account back from the debt collection agency and reinstate the 
agreement. Mr E can then repay the loan under the terms detailed in the original agreement. 
Klarna should also pay Mr E £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by having a 
default recorded on his credit file and the account incorrectly being passed to a debt 
collection agency. 
I invited both parties to respond with new information they wanted me to consider before I
made my final decision.
Both Klarna and Mr E confirmed they were willing to accept the provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr E and Klarna have accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has
provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Klarna should do the following: 
Remove the default recorded onto Mr Es credit file. 
Take the account back from the debt collection agency and reinstate the agreement 
under the original terms.
Pay Mr E £75 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint and require Klarna Bank AB (publ) to put things right for Mr E as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman