DRN-3440983
The complaint
Mr N complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited did not make him aware of its new 
pension products. He says hes lost out financially as a result, because hes paid higher 
charges.
Mr N also complains that Standard Life sent him an email when he asked for 
correspondence to be sent by letter.
What happened
In 2004 having taken advice from a financial adviser, Mr N took out a Personal Pension Flex 
plan with Standard Life. In 2005, he wrote to Standard Life to say hed changed advisers and 
provided details of his new adviser.
Standard Life sent correspondence (statements) to Mr N and his new adviser. These 
statements showed how much Mr Ns pension was worth. The statements said that Mr N 
should speak to his adviser if he needed to review his plan.
In July 2021 Mr N removed the adviser from his plan.
Standard Life has introduced new pension products since 2004, when Mr N took out his 
plan. These new products have different terms, investment options and charging structures 
compared to Mr Ns Flex plan.
On 3 August 2021 Mr N phoned Standard Life to discuss investment restrictions in his Flex 
plan. Standard Lifes call handler told Mr N about some other products it had where the 
investment options were wider and the charges lower.
Following this call, Mr N complained to Standard Life, unhappy that he had not been 
provided with this information before, which could have saved him money. He says around 
£7,000 in charges.
Standard Life did not uphold his complaint. It said it wasnt required to recommend or 
suggest new products and that is why on the statements he was sent it advised him to seek 
financial advice if he wanted to review his plan options.
Mr N had previously asked Standard Life to send him correspondence by letter rather than 
email due to a health issue. Standard Life responded to Mr Ns complaint by email. Mr N 
pointed out this inconvenience. Mr N also took the view that Standard Lifes offer to transfer 
him to a new product with different charges was an admission that it had done something 
wrong.
Standard Life apologised for sending an email rather than a letter. But did not accept that it 
had otherwise done anything wrong. 
Mr N referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and did not 
recommend that Mr Ns complaint was upheld. Mr N asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman, so Mr Ns complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The paperwork shows that Mr N had an adviser until July 2021, to advise him on his 
investment options and on the suitability of his pension plan for his ongoing needs. I cant, 
therefore, fairly hold Standard Life responsible for not advising Mr N about his pension 
options.
From July 2021 Mr N didnt have an adviser appointed to his plan. But, that doesnt change 
my overall view. Thats because it was clear from the paperwork sent by Standard Life that it 
was not his adviser and that he should seek financial advice if he wanted to review his plan.  
I think Standard Life made its role clear in the correspondence it sent Mr N.
Like our investigator, I appreciate that it must have been disappointing for Mr N to learn in 
August 2021 that he may have been able to pay lower charges, if he had switched products 
sooner. But having concluded that Standard Life was not responsible for advising him on the 
product options available, I cant fairly conclude that Standard Life is responsible for the 
financial loss Mr N claims.
As our investigator explained, as Standard Life wasnt his adviser it couldnt recommend 
alternative products to him, even those it offered. Standard Lifes role was to administer his 
pension plan in line with the terms and conditions of the product that Mr N signed up for. I 
havent seen evidence of it failing to comply with those terms and conditions.
Mr N takes the view that because Standard Life told him during the August 2021 phone call 
that he could switch plans and benefit from the lower charges, this amounts to it accepting 
that it had a responsibility to tell him about other pension options.  I disagree,  I think 
Standard Life was providing Mr N with information, in response to what he told it at that time.  
I cant see that Standard Life provided him with advice and a tailored recommendation based 
on his personal objectives and needs, or that it was under a duty to proactively provide him 
with information about other products available. Upon receipt of the information from 
Standard Life, in response to Mr Ns enquiry,  it was then for Mr N to assess (with or without 
advice) how to proceed and whether any of the new products discussed may better meet his 
needs than his existing plan. So, this doesnt change my view that Standard Life did not do 
anything wrong.
Standard Life has apologised to Mr N for sending him an email rather than a letter in 
response to his complaint. As our investigator explained, complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity and so we cant consider this aspect of his complaint further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman