DRN-1140776
Complaint
Mr M and Mr S have complained about the advice they were given by National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) about their mortgage. They say that they were mis-sold a fixed-rate 
product alongside their mortgage and that they were later given incorrect information about 
their mortgage by their personal banking manager.
Background
In January 2018, Mr M and Mr S were sold a mortgage with a five-year fixed-rate product. 
The term of the mortgage was five years and three months.
In March 2019, following two part-redemption payments, Mr M and Mr S contacted NatWest 
and asked for the term of their mortgage to be reduced to three years and four months. In 
response to this, NatWest explained to Mr M and Mr S that this wasnt possible, as the full 
term of the mortgage couldnt be less than term of the fixed rate product, which in this case 
was five years.
Mr M and Mr S complained. They said that at the time the mortgage was being arranged in 
January 2018, theyd made it clear to the NatWest adviser that their intention was to repay 
the mortgage as soon as possible by repaying the maximum amount acceptable under the 
mortgage terms and conditions. They also said that they werent told that any overpayments 
would have the effect of reducing the overall interest and not the term of the mortgage. As 
they were sold a product which didnt allow them to reduce the term of their mortgage, they 
believe it was mis-sold.
In addition to the above, Mr M and Mr S have also complained about information provided to 
them by their private banking manager in February 2019. They said they were incorrectly 
told that the term could be reduced, subject to a small fee. To put things right, Mr M and 
Mr S would like NatWest to refund them the fee they paid for their mortgage.
In response to Mr M and Mr Ss complaint, NatWest said that it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr M and Mr S brought their complaint 
to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked into Mr M and Mr Ss complaint, but didnt think it was one which 
should be upheld. He concluded that the point-of-sale documentation showed that the 
adviser was right to recommend the fixed-term product based on Mr M and Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time. He also didnt think that Mr M and Mr S had lost out as a result of 
any incorrect information which may have been provided by the private banking manager.
As Mr M and Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings on their complaint, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr M and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Sale of the fixed-rate product
NatWest has provided our service with copies of the documentation completed by their 
mortgage adviser at the time the mortgage was arranged. This includes copies of the 
customer fact find and the mortgage illustration document which the adviser completed 
following her review of Mr M and Mr Ss circumstances.
This documentation shows that the adviser recommended a mortgage over a term of five 
years and three months, with a fixed interest rate for the first five years of the term. The 
documentation also shows that an early repayment charge would be applicable if the 
mortgage were redeemed prior to the expiration of the five-year fixed-term period.
Looking at the information set out in the customer fact find, I can see the adviser specifically 
noted that Mr M and Mr S had indicated they preferred a fixed-rate mortgage. The customer 
fact find shows that the following was noted under the section relating to the mortgage 
product type: 
"You have told me that you have always had fixed rates so you can know what is due to go 
out each month. You believe that rates will go up over the next 5 years and dont want to risk 
increased payments. You want to have security on your outgoing for the term of the 
mortgage and want to fix for the longest term NatWest will offer of 5 years".
In addition to this, the advisers notes on the customer fact find document show that Mr M 
and Mr S had told her they were planning on making overpayments on their mortgage, but 
would do so within the 10% overpayment restriction for the full five years. This suggests 
Mr M and Mr S were made aware of the fact there was a limit to how much they could repay 
on their fixed-rate mortgage each year and that early repayment charges would be 
applicable if the mortgage were redeemed early.
Mr M and Mr S have specifically referred us to a section within the consumer fact find where 
the adviser had written that, You have told me that you are comfortable with a monthly 
payment of £500 and would want to consider reducing the term if possible. 
I have, however, noted that this statement was made in relation to the following question:
"3.5a If your mortgage payment came in under budget would you prefer to:
a. Keep to your preferred mortgage term and have additional surplus income each 
month, or
b. Reduce the term of your mortgage and pay less interest overall?"
 
Having considered the above-mentioned statement in the context of the question asked, I 
dont think this shows that Mr M and Mr S communicated an intention to pay off their 
mortgage before the agreed end date. I think its more likely that this statement reflects a 
desire to obtain the shortest possible mortgage term based on their budgeted repayment 
amount of £500 per month.While I appreciate that Mr M and Mr S have told us that their intention from the outset was to 
pay off their mortgage as soon as possible, I havent seen enough to say that this was 
something the adviser ought to have taken into account when making her recommendation. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr M and Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale, Im satisfied 
that the advisers recommendation was suitable. So, I dont think NatWest did anything 
wrong when selling Mr M and Mr S a mortgage with a fixed-rate product.
Ive also thought about what Mr M and Mr S have said about not being told that 
overpayments would have the effect of reducing the overall interest and not the term of the 
mortgage. But, given the available information from the time of sale shows that 
Mr M and Mr S wanted the benefit of having a fixed-rate product for the full five years, I think 
its likely that they would still have agreed to the fixed-rate product had they been made 
aware of this.
Information provided by the private banking manager
Mr M and Mr S say they were provided with misleading information by their private banking 
manager in February 2019  approximately one year after their mortgage was arranged. 
They say they were told that they could reduce the term of their mortgage to three years and 
four months, subject to a fee which NatWest was prepared to waive.
Based on what NatWest has said, Mr M and Mr Ss private banking manager wasnt in a 
position to provide them with advice on their mortgage or a reduction of its term. So, I think 
in this case, its likely that the information provided was of a general nature and not specific 
to Mr M and Mr Ss circumstances.
While theres no independent evidence of what exactly was discussed in the meeting 
between the private banking manager and Mr M and Mr S, I accept their submissions that 
the information provided may have created false expectations. It may have been the fault of 
the manager; but equally, there may just have been a misunderstanding. But either way, I 
dont think Mr M and Mr S have lost out because of any misleading information or 
misunderstanding during this discussion.
If Mr M and Mr S had been told that the reduction of their mortgage term was subject to an 
application process, they would have found themselves in the same position that theyre 
currently in  their application still would have been declined. So, I dont think any 
compensation is due for anything that may have been said or implied during this discussion.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman