DRN-2926347
The complaint
Mrs M complains that  Metro Bank PLC unfairly restricted her account and asked her to 
verify her identify.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Metro Bank in February 2021 and found out that her account had been 
restricted. The bank asked Mrs M to visit a Metro Bank branch to verify her identity (ID). 
Mrs M said she couldnt do so as her nearest branch was too far for her to travel.  The bank 
offered her the option of posting the requested documents, as long as she had them certified 
at a Post Office.
Mrs M ended up travelling to her closest branch, which she says took her 40 minutes to get 
to. Her ID was verified and her account restriction was lifted.
Mrs M complained to Metro Bank because she was made to travel and had to pay for 
parking charges. Shes also unhappy that she wasnt notified when the restriction was 
placed on her account.
Metro Bank explained that it had acted in line with its terms and conditions and that it doesnt 
have a process to notify customers in these circumstances. Remaining unhappy, Mrs M 
asked this service to review the matter. Mrs M says that, in addition to the cost of visiting the 
branch, she also suffered embarrassment - as a cheque she provided to a friend couldnt be 
cashed. She wants compensation as a resolution to her complaint. 
Our investigator decided that Metro Bank fairly applied its terms and conditions. Mrs M didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to carry out a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Metro Bank has acted fairly and Ill explain why.
Metro Bank has a duty to protect its customers. As part of this, it needs to have suitable 
processes in place for customer identification. 
The banks terms allow it to restrict Mrs Ms account for different reasons  which includes 
security and regulatory reasons. Metro Bank told us that it restricted Mrs Ms account so that 
it could verify her ID. So I think it applied its terms fairly because of this.
Mrs M says her ID was verified when she applied for the account and questions why she 
needed to go through this process again. But Metro Bank has a responsibility to regularly 
carry out actions to protect its customers. In this instance, the bank felt there was a need for 
Mrs M to verify her ID a second time  I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Mrs M is unhappy that the bank didnt notify her of the restriction on her account and she 
only found out after getting in touch with the bank herself. Metro Banks terms say that it will 
not contact Mrs M in circumstances such as this, if theres a possibility that it would affect the 
banks security procedures. Given the reason Metro Bank applied the restriction, I dont think 
it acted unfairly when it didnt notify Mrs M.
When Mrs M expressed dissatisfaction with the banks request that she visits one of its 
branches, Metro Bank offered her an alternative option  which was to post her documents 
to the bank after having these certified at a Post Office. Mrs M ended up going in to branch 
anyway, but I think the alternative offered by the bank was reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs M experienced some cost in travelling to the Metro Bank branch. And I 
can understand the embarrassment she felt when her friend couldnt cash the cheque she 
gave them. But I can only look to ask Metro Bank to compensate Mrs M if Id decided that 
the bank had done something wrong. 
But as I explained, Metro Bank acted fairly when it decided to apply the restriction and when 
it asked Mrs M to verify her ID in branch. So I wont be asking the bank to pay any 
compensation. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman