DRN-2725825
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services, 
failed to send him annual statements, and thereby failed to tell him that the interest rate on 
his account had dropped.
What happened
Mr L had a savings account with Bank of Ireland from 2013 to 2020. The original interest rate 
was 1.35% a year, but in 2014 this dropped to 0.10%. He says that he was unaware of this 
because the bank had never sent him annual statements. He complained that if he had 
known, he would have moved his savings elsewhere, to receive a better interest rate. He 
asked for a refund of all the interest he said he had lost out on since 2014.
Bank of Ireland did not agree to do that. It said it had sent him a statement each year. It also 
pointed out that the terms and conditions which were sent to him when the account was 
opened had made it clear that the opening interest rate was a promotional rate which would 
expire after one year. It had not been realistic to expect the account to maintain the same 
interest rate for six or seven years. The bank also said that if Mr L had really not been 
receiving statements, then it had been his responsibility to chase them up, instead of waiting 
for six years, or he could have checked the interest rate online.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that the bank had sent the 
statements, and he thought it was more likely than not that Mr L had received them. This 
was partly because there was evidence that Mr L had received other correspondence from 
the bank, and also because he thought it was implausible that six statements in a row would 
go missing. He noted that the letters and statements were correctly addressed. He also said 
that as long as the bank had sent them, it was not the banks fault if they really had got lost 
in the post. Furthermore, he thought Mr L had received a letter in 2014 telling him that his 
bonus interest rate was about to expire.
Mr L did not accept that decision. He insisted that he had not received the statements. He 
questioned the veracity of a copy of a letter which the bank said it had sent him in 2014, but 
which stated that the bonus rate would expire on 1 January 1970, given that the account had 
only been opened in 2013. (He also raised some new issues, such as whether he had 
actually been paid the correct interest in 2018 and 2019.) He asked for an ombudsman to 
comprehensively review the entire case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I am not going to review the new issues which have been raised since this complaint was 
first brought to us. Those matters would have to be brought to the bank separately so it can 
investigate them. This is required by rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, which 
set out the limits of our Services jurisdiction. So I have confined this decision to the initial 
complaint about Mr L not receiving annual statements, with the result that he was not 
informed about the drop in the interest rate on his account. (His wifes complaint about the 
same issue is being dealt with separately.)
While I have seen that both parties have made detailed submissions, I am not going to 
address every single point here. I will only make the findings which I think are necessary to 
resolve this complaint.
The normal interest rate on Mr Ls account at the time it was opened was 0.10%, and there 
was an introductory bonus rate of 1.25%, making a total of 1.35%. The bonus rate lasted for 
12 months from the date the account was opened. This was explained in the account 
opening literature. I have also read the account terms and conditions, which state in the 
glossary:
Introductory Bonus means a fixed interest rate that may be applied to a Variable 
Rate Account for a fixed period. The fixed period commences from the date the 
Variable Rate Account is opened.
So I think it was made clear, and should have been clear, to Mr L that the rate would not 
remain at 1.35% indefinitely. 
In paragraph 17, under the heading Interest, the terms and conditions state:
Our rates of interest are variable, unless otherwise stated. You can find out about 
our interest rates, including any introductory bonus or tiers by:
(a) visiting the Website  www.postoffice.co.uk;
(b) calling the Customer Service Centre.
So even if Mr L did not receive any statements, it was always open to him to find out what 
the interest rate was whenever he wanted to. I dont think it was reasonable to assume that 
the rate would not change, or to rely on the absence of annual statements (assuming he 
didnt get any) as a reason to suppose that the rate had remained and would continue to 
remain at 1.35% for more than six years.
Ultimately, the responsibility for ensuring that an account is offering a satisfactory interest 
rate lies with each account holder. That does not absolve the bank of its duty to provide 
annual statements, in accordance with the terms and conditions which state that it will do so. 
But if statements did not show up each year, then I think it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
mitigate the potential consequences by asking the bank to send them again.
It follows that it is not strictly necessary for me to make a finding about whether Mr L 
received or did not receive any statements, since even if he did not receive a single one, that 
would not be sufficient reason in my view to order the bank to reimburse him the difference 
between the interest he received from 2014 and the interest he could have got if he had 
moved his money elsewhere, or even to reimburse him 50% of that amount (as he 
suggested as an alternative).
However, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Bank of Ireland did in fact send the 
statements. The banks system records show that they were sent, and I have seen that they 
were correctly addressed. The banks duty is only to send the statements, and I consider 
that duty to be fulfilled if they are sent in the ordinary post: there is no requirement to send 
them by recorded or signed for delivery. It is not the banks fault if what it sends is then lost 
in the post, since the bank has no control over that, the mail being operated by a third party. But I will go further than that and say that I also do not believe that it is probable or plausible 
that six statements in a row (for the years 2014 to 2019 inclusive) were not delivered.
I have considered Mr Ls point about the letter which refers to a date in 1970, because I can 
see why he would argue that this compromises the banks credibility. That date appears in a 
paragraph which states that the introductory bonus rate of 0.00% a year will reduce to an 
underlying rate of 0.00% on 01/01/1970. I think these are just default values in a template 
letter, which would ordinarily be populated with different values when the letter is generated 
and sent. Clearly no bonus interest rate would ever be zero, and it is not suggested that 
Mr Ls account ever had a rate of zero. Its obviously a mistake. But Mr L does not dispute 
receiving this letter  he sent it to us  and so when he received a letter saying that an 
interest rate of zero would be reduced to zero in 1970, I would have expected him to contact 
the bank about that at the time. Had he done so, he would have been told what the interest 
rate reduction really was. He didnt, but he still knew that he had received a letter about a 
forthcoming reduction in the interest rate on his account. So even though that letter 
contained obvious errors, Mr L can hardly say that the bank didnt warn him about the 
reduction at the time, and not just when he opened the account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
The bank has offered Mr L £75 as compensation for some unrelated issues to do with the 
same account; I leave it to Mr L to decide whether he now wishes to accept that offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman