DRN-3520162
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd refused to 
re-issue a cheque which was originally issued in 2002. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
I've taken into account Mr Ns very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. I 
hope he doesn't take it as a discourtesy that I don't reply to every point he has made. The 
purpose of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in the 
complaint.
There has been a considerable amount of time which has passed since the cheque was 
issued (2002) and when Mr N raised the issue with L&G (2020). Due to the passage of time 
L&G has said there is limited information available, and its policy is to only keep this kind of 
data for six years after a client relationship has ended. I appreciate Mr N is unhappy with this 
and has suggested due to his previous occupation and experience with other businesses 
that L&G should have access to it. I understand Mr Ns concerns about this, but this is L&Gs 
policy and I cant say it is dissimilar to other financial institutions who set a data retention 
policy. In any event, L&G  have confirmed they do not have any further information and due 
to the time which has passed and its policy, I dont think its unreasonable. 
I would like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I have reviewed the bank statements Mr N has provided since 2002. I can see on 9 August 
2002, £9,674.76 was paid into one of Mr Ns accounts. And it appears from the evidence 
provided that this was the only cheque cashed in of that value at that time. Mr N believes this 
was his wifes cheque, as he found his cheque still attached to the letter dated 30 July 2002 
and has provided evidence of this. 
Our investigator said that as the cheque said account payee only it is unlikely this would 
have been Mr Ns wifes cheque as it wouldnt have been authorised to be credited to his 
account. Mr N says this is not the case and having spoken to the bank he says at the time it 
could have been credited to his account with his wifes consent. I cant be certain of the 
circumstances that surrounded this deposit or the rules relating to deposits with the bank in 
question at that time. But I am satisfied that only one cheque was cashed into Mr Ns 
account.
I have gone on to consider the surrounding circumstances. I have reviewed the letter sent to 
Mr N dated 30 July 2002. And as Mr N has provided evidence to show the cheque was still 
attached, I can see there was a spelling error with Mr Ns first name. As such, it is unlikely he 
would have been able to cash this cheque. This is consistent with Mr Ns further 
correspondence to our service, where he highlights an error with his name and says he now 
remember that he requested a further cheque from L&G to be issued. However, Mr N says 
he never received that cheque. I can see the letter with the original cheque was issued to Mr 
N on 30 July 2002. And the money didnt credit his account until 9 August 2002. As such, I 
dont think it is unreasonable to conclude a further cheque was issued in that time and 
credited to Mr Ns account. I say this because, in Mr Ns testimony to our service he confirms 
that he now remembers asking L&G for another cheque to be issued. As such, he would 
have been aware he was waiting to receive a further cheque to be issued, and upon not 
receiving that cheque, I think it is likely he would have complaint to L&G. Mr N hasnt 
provided such evidence, and I cant see that he raised a complaint with L&G at that time. 
So, on balance, I am persuaded, after receiving the original cheque with the incorrect 
spelling of his name, Mr N requested another cheque and received it. This is also consistent 
with L&Gs explanation as to why there are no funds in the client account.
I understand the strength of Mr Ns feelings that if the cheque had been paid, it wasnt paid
into his bank account. But as I explained above, I have to make a finding on balance. And 
due to the events, that occurred, passage of time, inconsistency in testimony and that a 
cheque was credited to Mr Ns account, I am persuaded L&G havent sone anything wrong 
in regard to this.
L&G have admitted that the service it provided in relation to addressing this issue was 
unsatisfactory. It led Mr N to believe the cheque may be reissued, requested unnecessary 
information and didnt update him on several occasions when he requested it. L&G offered 
Mr N £500 for inconvenience it caused. Having considered the offer it made, I am satisfised 
it is more than we would have suggested if L&G hadnt already made the offer to Mr N. I am 
satisfised it reflects, the upset, inconvenience and concern Mr N would have suffered due to 
the service he received. And I am satisfied L&G has done enough to put this right. As such I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman