DRN-4118884
The complaint
This complaint is about what happened after Mr S told Skipton Building Society (Skipton) 
that he wanted to put money hed saved in his Lifetime ISA (LISA) towards his property 
purchase which was shortly due to complete. Hes unhappy that Skipton missed two emails 
sent by his solicitor and that it took three phone calls from Mr D to sort the matter out. Mr D 
feels that it was solely due to his own actions that the LISA funds were released on time and 
he didnt miss his completion date.
To put things right, Mr S wants a proper investigation into why emails went missing and 
compensation for the lack of communication from Skipton about this when hed been led to 
expect it would look into the matter and call him back. 
What happened
By way of background, Ive set out below a brief timeline of events based on what Mr S has 
told me.
31 May 2022 an email was sent from Mr S solicitor to Skipton enquiring about the funds in 
Mr S LISA. Mr S was expecting to complete the purchase of his new home in 10 days time 
and required his LISA money for this purpose.
1 June 2022 Mr S phoned Skipton to discuss the release of funds from his LISA. He was told 
Skipton asks for 30 days notice before sending funds to a solicitor but that it would do all it 
could to work to Mr S completion date. Skipton told Mr S it required signed declarations 
before the funds could be released. Mr S confirmed his solicitor had emailed these to 
Skipton on 31 May 2022. Skipton told Mr S it had not received these. I understand it was 
agreed at Skiptons suggestion that given the four-day bank holiday from Thursday 2 June to 
Sunday 5 June 2002, Mr S would ask for the email to be re-sent on the next working day 
after  6 June 2022. 
6 June 2022 Mr S understood his solicitor emailed Skipton a second time on this date. 
7 June 2022 Shortly before 11am, Mr S phoned Skipton to see if it had received the email 
sent on 6 June 2022  Skipton said it had not received this and provided Mr S with an email 
address to enable Mr S solicitor to re-send it.
An hour or so later, Mr S phoned Skipton again to check on progress and Skipton confirmed 
it had received his solicitors email sent that day, with the declarations for his LISA. It told 
Mr S that the matter was in a queue to be actioned.
During the conversation, Mr S asked if enquiries could be made to see if the other two 
emails had been received. He was told that the department concerned was very busy at that 
particular time but that the call handler would email for information and call Mr S back.
The LISA funds were sent to Mr S solicitor later the same day, in time to enable completion 
to take place on the due date. 
 
When Mr S received no news about what happened to the first two emails, he complained to 
Skipton and he wanted to know why it took three emails before Skipton received the 
declarations needed to release his money. Skipton said it was unable to locate any evidence 
that it had received emails from Mr S solicitor on 31 May and 6 June 2022 and it offered 
sincere apologies for not calling him back with this information after it said it would.   
Mr S didnt feel this was a good enough response and he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He mainly said that hed 
identified no major wrongdoing by Skipton and as it had acted fairly and reasonably overall 
he wouldnt be asking Skipton to do anything more.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and felt his approach to the complaint had been unfair 
so he asked for an ombudsman review. 
The complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. I will explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
As I understand Mr S complaint, hes mainly concerned to find out what happened to the 
first two emails and why it took three phone calls from him to get matters sorted out in time 
for completion. 
Id like to start by saying that I do appreciate how strongly Mr S feels about this complaint 
and I sympathise I can completely understand that whats happened was extremely 
stressful when he was committed to such a tight deadline and there was so much at stake. 
And I recognise that its frustrating for him not to have any clear explanation about what 
happened to emails.  
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or 
question raised because its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and Skipton and reach an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. So I've thought 
carefully about the way Skipton acted in this matter.
Skipton explained its process was that documents it received relating to a customers 
account are scanned onto its system. Skipton said it had checked and found no record of 
emails from Mr S solicitor sent on 31 May or 6 June 2022. I have no good reason to doubt 
Skipton when it says this. It fits with what Skipton told Mr S over the phone at the time and 
it explains why it didnt have the signed declarations it required in order to process his 
LISA money when Mr S spoke to Skipton on the phone on 6 June.
I dont know what happened to the first two emails. But, from the point of view of my role 
here, I dont need to pursue this matter further in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision on Mr S complaint. My focus is on Skiptons actions. Skipton made Mr S aware at 
the time that it hadnt seen these emails and had a constructive conversation with him about what he could do to ensure it received the information it needed to process his application in 
time to meet his completion deadline. That seems to me to have been the priority at the time. 
Skipton has already apologised for not getting back in touch about the missing emails when 
it said it would. I appreciate that its failure to do so has added to Mr S frustrations about the 
matter generally. But Skipton had already told Mr S that it had no record of the emails and 
I consider that Skiptons apology for this oversight is sufficient in these circumstances. 
In coming to my decision, Ive also kept in mind that there was only a relatively short time 
between Mr S contacting Skipton on 31 May and his planned completion date. In the event, 
Skipton got his money to his solicitor within 7 days  and this included the four day bank 
holiday in the middle. That seems quick to me by any standard  especially bearing in mind 
that Skipton says its terms say that Mr Ds conveyancer should send the Investor and 
Conveyancer declaration forms at least 30 days before the completion date in order to allow 
time for the request to be processed and the withdrawal made. That seems a reasonable 
timescale to me and Im aware that this information is also included on Skiptons website. 
Taking everything into account, I think it's fair to say that Skipton took steps to help Mr S 
gain access to the funds in his LISA and complete his planned house purchase on time 
despite the very short notice. It told him what it needed to see in order to release his LISA 
money and when the call handler couldnt confirm it had received the signed declarations it 
needed there was a helpful discussion about the best way to try and resolve the issue. 
Skipton successfully got the LISA funds to Mr Ds solicitor on the same day it received the 
signed declarations, enabling completion to happen as planned.  
I can tell Skipton to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right only if I am 
satisfied that Skipton did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to 
Mr S suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. All in all, for the reasons I have 
explained, I dont find that Skipton acted incorrectly, unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S 
when he wanted to release the money in his LISA. And although it admitted failing to call him 
back about the first two emails after it said it would, Skipton has previously volunteered its 
apology for this and I dont consider that it needs to do anything further. 
I recognise that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but I hope that settings things out 
this way has been helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman