DRN-4253804
The complaint
Mr T has complained AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company has incorrectly recorded 
his driving data under his telematics policy.
For simplicity, all references to AXA include its agents who have provided the telematics 
data.
What happened
AXA advised Mr T that it had recorded four speeding events via its telematics data between 
September 2022 and April 2023. Mr T disputes that the data is correct. As the details of this 
complaint are well known to the parties I wont repeat them again here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully 
reviewed the complete file and considered all the representations Mr T made before and 
after our investigators view. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I recognise that Mr T will be very disappointed by my decision and Im sorry this decision 
doesnt bring more welcome news. But for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our investigator:
Ive considered the speeding events in September and December 2022 and April 
2023. I havent disregarded Mr Ts detailed submissions regarding these events and 
others. It serves no purpose to repeat the details well known to the parties. But on 
balance Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for AXA to rely on this data, Ill 
explain why. 
AXA has explained that speed is captured using the GPS on the mobile device. The 
application reports the location and speed every minute during a journey and is 
scheduled to report the fastest speed in the proceeding minute in order to record the 
fastest point in any minute of a journey. I have considered the evidence Mr T has 
submitted from a mechanical engineer which states that GPS is not an accurate 
means of recording speed and shouldnt be used in areas where there is poor mobile 
phone signal. He concluded that there were major inconsistencies in the data being 
collected. Mr T has pointed out that there are black spots in the area where 
speeding events have been recorded. However AXA has confirmed that all speeding 
events are verified before being confirmed and if there are inconsistencies speeding 
events will be automatically removed. This was the case with speeding events 
recorded in September 2022 (and May 2023). It clarified that the software does not 
track or assume vehicle speed during periods of GPS signal loss. I find that this 
explanation is persuasive and fair. I dont accept, as Mr T suggests, that as a 
speeding event was cancelled signifies that AXA is not confident in its telematics 
data.
Further AXA has confirmed that the data it obtains undergoes rigorous testing, peer 
reviews, analysis and verification processes, carried out by a specialist third party 
software provider. Im persuaded that Mr Ts data has been thoroughly reviewed and 
validated. On balance, Im satisfied that it can confirm Mr Ts speeding events with 
accuracy. For completeness I should add that AXA has not suggested that Mr Ts 
driving was dangerous, only that speed events or red events had been recorded.
Im satisfied that AXA has provided Mr T with the data relating to the speeding events 
recorded. It was sufficient for him to understand when the events are said to have 
occurred and to challenge those events. 
Mr T has detailed why be disputes his car, first registered in 1994, is able to 
accelerate at the speed suggested. I accept it is very likely to have slower speeds 
than newer cars. However his evidence that when new it could travel 59bph and 
accelerate from 0-60 in 15 seconds isnt at odds with AXAs data, or sufficient to 
show that the speeding events were physically impossible.
Mr T agreed to the terms and conditions of his telematics policy when taking it out. I 
understand he was concerned that his policy would be cancelled because of events 
he considers to be incorrect and the implications this may have for him. AXA has 
recently confirmed it is able to offer Mr T a standard policy and has written to Mr T 
explaining this. Im pleased to note his telematics policy wasnt cancelled. 
I recognise that Mr was dissatisfied with his telematics policy and has gone to great 
lengths to explain why. I acknowledge that this matter has been stressful for him and 
Im grateful for his submissions. But in all the circumstances Im not persuaded that 
AXA has done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman