DRN-3428434
The complaint
Mrs C and the estate of Mr C, represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC), 
complain that Canada Life Limited mis-sold them a whole-of-life policy. For clarity, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs C throughout.
What happened
In 1995, Mr and Mrs C received advice from Canada Life. They were advised to take out a 
whole-of-life policy on a joint life, second death basis. The policy had a sum assured of 
£300,000 and cost around £102 per month. The policy was written into trust. The policy 
lapsed without value in 1998 after Mr and Mrs C stopped paying premiums.
Mr and Mrs Cs CMC complained recently that this policy was mis-sold. It said that the 
reviewable nature of the policy wasnt explained sufficiently and this made it unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs Cs needs.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that Mr and 
Mrs C appeared to have a need for a policy to mitigate their inheritance tax liability and this 
policy was set up to do that. She also explained that the reviewable nature of the policy was 
made clear in the policy documents.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the Investigator. It said that no consideration 
had been given to Mrs Cs ability to afford the policy had Mr C passed away first. And that 
setting out the reviewable nature in the policy documents wasnt enough to show it was set 
out clearly. It asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Canada Life had a duty to make a recommendation suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances in 1995. I can see that Mr and Mrs C had assets of over £400,000 each  and 
had wills leaving their full estate to each other. This means that there was a possibility that 
the last survivor would have over £800,000 in assets  triggering a potential inheritance tax 
(IHT) bill for their beneficiaries. So, I dont think it was unsuitable for Canada Life to have 
recommended a life policy to mitigate this IHT liability.
The policy was set up on a joint life second death basis. This means that it only pays out 
when both Mr and Mrs C had passed away. The fact find from the time shows us that the 
purpose of the policy was to mitigate a potential IHT liability. So, the policy was set up in the 
way Id expect. I can also see it was written in trust. This means that the sum assured 
wouldnt go into the estate when the last survivor passed away  so the policy was set up 
correctly for IHT mitigation.
Mr and Mrs Cs CMC says that Canada Life hadnt thought about affordability. I can see that 
both Mr and Mrs C had a good amount of assets. Mr Cs income at the time provided over 
£700 surplus per month. And Mrs C was set to inherit a large estate if Mr C passed away 
before her. I appreciate that this policy was set up on a reviewable basis, but I cant see that 
in 1995 there was an indication that this would become unaffordable. And a non-reviewable 
alternative would likely have been significantly more expensive. The policy lapsed prior to a 
review being carried out, but I dont think the reviewable nature made this policy unsuitable 
at the time it was sold.
I can see that the personal example from the point of sale explained how the policy worked, 
and when reviews would be carried out. The point of sale documentation show Mr and Mrs C 
set a budget of £100 per month for this cover. I can see that the policy cost around this 
amount and provided them with the level of cover they needed at the time. Although I cant 
see any other explanation of the reviewable nature in the documents we have from the time, 
I dont think theres enough to say that Mr and Mrs C werent made aware of the risks 
involved with taking out a reviewable policy. And, I dont think the recommendation was 
unsuitable for their circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman