DRN-4381735
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money removed his promotional 
offer, terminated his account, and passed it to a Debt Management Company (DMC).
What happened
Mr R says that Virgin Money removed his promotional interest rate and moved him to the 
higher standard interest rate when he was late with a payment. He let them know in March 
2020 that he was having financial difficulties, but they ended up terminating his account, 
registering a default, and passing it to a DMC. He said Virgin Money treat different 
customers differently.  Mr R made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said his promotional rate of interest 
(0%) was removed following missed payments from him. When Mr R called them on 30 
March 2020, they explained they couldnt reinstate the offer. As Mr R informed them that the 
payments were unaffordable, they completed an income and expenditure form, and on 
review, he qualified for hardship. They confirmed he did not incur any interest and charges 
from April 2020 to when they sold the debt to the DMC on 6 July 2020, as they froze them 
following his hardship. They said the amount they sent to the DMC was £3,317.62 as per his 
July 2020 statement. Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said Virgin Money had the right to 
withdraw his promotional rate should the minimum payment requirement not be met. She 
said we would expect Virgin Money to review each consumers situation independently, 
conducting reviews with each consumer to tailor a support plan that suits them, which can 
result in different outcomes with different consumers. Our investigator said that Virgin Money 
acted in line with the terms and conditions by passing the account to a DMC. Mr R asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Rs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
I must make Mr R aware that I can only focus on the actions of Virgin Money here, and not 
any other business that may be involved, such as the DMC. I can only address the original 
points he made in his complaint, and not any subsequent points he may have raised. This is 
because if he has any further complaint points which werent part of his original complaint, 
then he would need to raise these with Virgin Money directly first.
Ive looked into Mr Rs promotional interest rate being removed for the last time. I can see 
that Mr R made his payment successfully on his July 2019 statement, and this statement 
shows he still has the 0% promotional interest rate (after this had been reinstated due to a 
previous complaint he made). The statement is clear that they would collect £59.36 by direct 
debit on 13 August 2019. But Mr Rs August 2019 statement shows that they could not 
collect the direct debit on 13 August 2019 and this was reversed. I can see that Mr R made a 
payment three days later, but as this was after his contractual payment date, he lost the 
promotional interest rate. 
Mr Rs July 2019 statement clearly states If we do not receive the Minimum Payment when 
it is due or you go over your credit limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect 
from the start of that statement period. So as the payment was not received when it was 
due, Virgin Money acted in line with the statement by removing the promotional interest rate. 
And while they may have previously reinstated this under similar circumstances, they are not 
obliged to keep doing so when Mr R had not adhered to them receiving the payment by the 
due date. So I cant say Virgin Money made an error in removing the promotional rate of 
interest.
From Mr Rs credit card statements after his August 2019 statement (September 2019 
onwards), his next payment was on 11 October 2019, but this didnt clear the arrears on the 
account as his previous direct debit had also been returned unpaid. So I cant say that Virgin 
Money were unfair in not reinstating the promotional interest rate when he had missed the 
due date and missed a payment altogether the following month.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about letting Virgin Money know about his financial 
difficulty. Here, we would expect Virgin Money to look at Mr Rs individual circumstances, 
and this is how different customers may have different outcomes to telling Virgin Money they 
are in financial difficulty. We would not expect them to have the same outcome for each 
customer as this could lead to unfair outcomes. I can see from their system notes that Mr R 
contacted Virgin Money on 18 February 2020. 
The notes show that Mr R offered to pay Virgin Money between £50-£60 a month. They 
show that after they completed Mr Rs income and expenditure, this showed he had surplus 
income of £542. And this is why a plan wasnt set up for Mr R as it would appear he could 
afford the repayments. So no payment plan was offered. I cant say Virgin Money were unfair 
here, as it would be reasonable for him to meet his monthly repayments in full if he had the 
affordability to do so, which the income and expenditure details he gave them suggested he 
did.
Virgin Money then sent Mr R a notice of default dated 25 February 2020. This set out he was 
required to pay £485.61 by 24 March 2020. It shows if he did not take this action before this 
date then they intended to take action. Amongst this action, this included terminating his 
account, and registering a default with the credit reference agencies. They sent him another 
notice of default on 25 March which gave him until 22 April 2020 to pay the arrears of 
£537.63, or they would intend to take the same action as the previous notice of default letter. 
Mr R phoned Virgin Money on 30 March 2020. Ive listened to this call to hear what was 
discussed. Mr R says he wanted to set up an arrangement, and he acknowledges he should 
have been making payments to the account. The call handler took Mr R through an income 
and expenditure form. She told Mr R that he qualified for a hardship arrangement, where 
interest and fees would be supressed. As Mr Rs disposable income was showing as a 
minus then they couldnt set up an arrangement. She explained his account would default 
and his debt would be managed by another company, and not Virgin Money. She says the 
hardship arrangement would not show on his credit file as an arrangement. Mr R asks how much he owes, and she tells him £3,392.62, and Mr R confirms he will take the 
arrangement. 
Mr R was then sent a letter from Virgin Money on the following day confirming that Having 
fully reviewed your financial circumstances, the amount you are able to pay is not enough for 
us to set up a formal payment arrangement. However, we understand you are experiencing 
financial difficulties and whilst this continues we will not be applying further interest and 
charges to your account. He was then sent a letter terminating the account dated 25 April 
2020 which informed him the default would be registered on his credit file. 
Virgin Money wrote to Mr R in a letter dated 29 July 2020 that his account was moving to a 
DMC. The terms and conditions that Mr R forwarded to our service shows that they are able 
to take this action. So while Im sorry to hear about Mr Rs financial difficulties, Virgin Money 
were unable to set up a repayment plan ultimately as Mr Rs income was less than his 
outgoings in March 2020. This suggests he wouldnt have been able to afford any payment 
regardless of whether interest was charged or not. But when Mr R explained his 
circumstances in March 2020, Virgin Money acted with forbearance, and they stopped the 
interest and charges and took actions which they fully informed Mr R about. So it follows I 
dont require Virgin Money to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman