DRN-4263799
The complaint
Mrs J complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited (SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car.
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs J entered into a hire purchase agreement with SMF to acquire a 
used car. The agreement term was 36 months with monthly repayments of around £126. 
The car was ten years old and had been driven over 77,700 miles at the time of acquisition.
Mrs J says that she experienced several issues with the car shortly after acquisition, noting a 
lack of power, the exhaust falling off and needing to replace a tyre. She raised these issues 
with SMF in March 2023.
SMF didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. It said it had contacted the supplying dealer which 
confirmed that upon inspection of the car all that was required was a top up of oil and 
because there were no faults present, it didnt accept that Mrs J should be allowed to reject 
the car. 
Mrs J wasnt satisfied with SMFs response and referred her complaint to this service. Mrs J 
wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld this complaint, but he didnt think that rejection was proportionate. 
Instead, he thought that SMF should refund Mrs J the costs she had paid to have her car 
recovered in November 2022 and £150 compensation for any distress or inconvenience she 
was caused due to the issues with the car.
SMF didnt respond to our investigators view. Mrs J said that she had been without a car 
since January 2023 which had affected all aspects of her life, including her earnings and 
ability to visit family. She said she still wanted to reject the car. She also noted that the cost 
of the recovery had already been refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with SMF. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, SMF can be held liable if the car 
supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as 
the cars age and mileage as well as the price paid. In this case, the car was ten years old 
and had been driven over 77,700 miles at the time of acquisition. The cars cost was £3,290.
Given the cars age and mileage I find it reasonable to accept that it would have suffered 
some wear and tear and it is possible that issues can arise shortly after acquisition that 
werent necessarily present or developing at supply. The car passed a MOT on 9 November 
2022 with no advisories which suggests the car was fit for purpose when supplied. However, 
Mrs J experienced issues very soon after acquisition and noting that part of the assessment 
of satisfactory quality is that the car is sufficiently durable, I think this does raise concerns.
Mrs J has explained that the cars exhaust fell off within the first month. I can see from the 
contact notes provided that Mrs J contacted the broker about the car being recovered due to 
an issue with the exhaust on 22 November 2022. This was within 30 days of Mrs J acquiring 
the car. However, I have nothing to show that she asked to reject the car at that time and 
instead I can see that Mrs J accepted the repair which was authorised and paid for by the 
supplying dealership. 
Based on the communication from the time it appears that the repair was successful and as 
this was completed on 1 December 2022, I find it took place within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mrs J collected the car, and the case was closed on 5 December 2022. I find this a 
reasonable remedy for the issue that occurred. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs J had incurred a cost for the car to be recovered on 22 
November 2022 and recommended that this cost be refunded. I can see from the 
correspondence with the broker at the time that it requested evidence of the recovery costs 
and Mrs J has said this amount was refunded therefore I do not require any further action to 
be taken in regard to this expense.
On 23 January 2023, Mrs J contacted the broker about an issue with the oil. The broker says 
that the supplying dealer took the car back to check for faults and topped up the oil but there 
were no other faults found. Based on this it didnt accept that Mrs J should be allowed to 
reject the car. 
I have thought about the issues Mrs J has experienced and the actions taken. Having noted 
when the issue with the exhaust occurred, I think this suggests that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality as it is likely there was a fault present or developing with the exhaust at 
the point of supply and / or that the car wasnt sufficiently durable as it needed to be 
recovered less than two weeks after acquisition. However, this issue was repaired and while 
a customer can have the right to reject a car if repairs do not resolve the issue, in this case I 
have nothing to suggest the repair wasnt successful. I note the concern Mrs J raised about 
the oil needing topping up, but this can be part of the usual maintenance of a car. And 
without evidence that there is an ongoing fault with the car, or any new issues that have 
arisen since repair that wouldnt be reasonably considered to be wear and tear, I do not find I 
can say that Mrs J should be allowed to reject the car. 
I understand that the issues caused Mrs J distress and inconvenience and as I accept the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply, resulting in repairs being required, I think it 
reasonable that Mrs J is paid an amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience she was 
caused. I have taken on board Mrs Js comments about the impact being without a car has 
had but I have also considered that the car was returned to Mrs J after the November 
repairs, and she was told following the inspection in January that she would need to collect 
the car. Based on this I think the £150 recommended by our investigator is reasonable.Putting things right
As I find that the car supplied to Mrs J wasnt of satisfactory quality Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited should:
pay Mrs J £150 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods; and 
remove any adverse information from Mrs Js credit file in relation to this agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Specialist Motor Finance Limited should take the actions set out 
above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman