DRN-2985913
The complaint
Miss L complains about the customer service shes received from Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd after engaging it to pursue a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In mid-2018 Miss L spoke to Brazier about a potential PPI claim. It says it started to work on 
the claim in February 2019 after receiving the necessary paperwork back from Miss L.
Miss L says that in over two years, she didnt hear anything further from Brazier about her 
claim. Shed phoned Brazier several times and had been told that it hadnt heard back from 
the lender who had sold her the PPI. Miss L says she raised a complaint with Brazier but 
didnt receive a response, so she asked our service to look into her concerns.
Brazier said it had sent a request through to the lender to check if there was PPI on Miss Ls 
account in February 2019. It said it resubmitted it on numerous occasions with the lender 
saying they hadnt received it. The PPI deadline resulted in a massive backlog across the 
industry and the Covid-19 pandemic added massive timescales to all claims across the 
board. Brazier said it had sent Miss L an email explaining the situation in April 2020.
Our investigator acknowledged that the PPI deadline and Covid-19 had resulted in Miss Ls 
PPI claim being delayed. But she thought Brazier could have been more proactive in 
progressing Miss Ls claim before the PPI deadline of August 2019. She also thought Brazier 
could have done more to keep Miss L updated. She recommended Brazier pay Miss L £100 
to compensate her for the trouble and upset shed experienced.
Brazier disagreed with our investigators view. It acknowledged that it could have informed 
Miss L more frequently. But it thought the amount of compensation our investigator had 
recommended was too high. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
Brazier has sent us copies of its system notes from August 2018 to December 2020. The 
notes show Miss L called on 29 January 2019 and asked why her claims were taking so 
long. Brazier told her it hadnt received her signed letter of authority (LOA) and would send 
her a new one. But its also noted that Brazier gave Miss L an update on the case on 3 
January 2019. So, I would have expected it to have let her know that it needed the LOA at 
that time. If it had done so, I think the case would likely have been progressed more quickly. 
On 12 February 2019, its noted that Miss L called to say shed sent the LOA in and she was 
advised that Brazier would call her back just to check in with her. But Brazier doesnt appear 
to have done so. The notes show Miss L calling for an update on 5 March 2019. Brazier says 
it sent Miss L an SMS to let her know it had received the LOA on 12 February 2019. While 
SMS is mentioned in the notes, its not clear who it was sent to or what was said. In any 
event, a text message isnt the same as calling someone to check in with them. So, I dont 
think Braziers communication with Miss L was as clear as it should have been. 
Part of Miss Ls complaint is that she wasnt called back by a manager as promised. Brazier 
hasnt provided us with any call recordings and its system notes arent very detailed. It looks 
like Miss L called Brazier on 4 June 2019 asking for a manager to call her back. Theres 
another note on 10 June 2019, which also says she wanted to speak to a manager. There 
are further notes in August, September, October and November 2019 indicating that Miss L 
called in several times and was upset that a manager hadnt called her back. So, Braziers 
notes seem to confirm what Miss L has said and I think this must have been very frustrating 
for her. 
Theres another note on 6 March 2020 which suggests Miss L expressed her frustration that 
shed been waiting for two years to get a response to her complaint against the lender. Its 
unclear from the notes what was said, but I can see Miss L called again a few days later. 
Brazier says it sent an email to Miss L on 14 April 2020 explaining the impact of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys PPI deadline (of August 2019) and the effect of Covid-19 on 
claims across the board.
I cant see that there was any further contact from Brazier before Miss L called it again in 
October and December 2020 to ask why her claim was taking so long. It looks like she was 
able to speak to a manager on both of these occasions, but the notes dont detail what was 
said. 
Brazier says it doesnt think it should be punished for not chasing claims during the Covid-19 
pandemic. But much of what Ive referred to above happened before the Covid-19 pandemic 
began. Miss L brought her complaint to our service in May 2021, which was around fourteen 
months after the government first issued its working from home guidance. Aside from 
Braziers email of April 2020, I havent seen any evidence to show that it proactively updated 
her or chased the progress of her PPI claim.
 
I appreciate that Miss Ls PPI claim is likely to have been impacted by the PPI deadline and 
the Covid-19 pandemic. But having considered the information available to me, I dont think 
the customer service Brazier provided to Miss L was as good as it should have been. 
To be clear, its not our services role to punish a business. What Ive needed to consider is 
whether or not Brazier did anything wrong and, if so, award Miss L fair compensation for the 
impact its had on her. And overall, I think £100 is fair compensation for the frustration and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of Braziers poor customer service.
Putting things right
Brazier should pay Miss L £100 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ls complaint and direct Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman