DRN-3822455
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of Livegrange Limited (LL), complains that its commercial property insurer, 
Allianz Insurance Plc, damaged kitchen units following a claim at its property. LL say the 
dispute that followed has meant the restoration works have been on hold since 2020. 
What happened
In 2018 LL notified Allianz of damage at its property from an escape of water. Allianz 
appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim, but difficulties and disagreements about the 
work and contractors ensued and LL complained. Allianz responded in May 2020 to say its 
agents should have made the process smoother, but wanted to finish the claim as soon as 
possible. It said its loss adjuster shouldnt have offered a cash settlement as LL had said it 
didnt want this. Allianz paid LL £500 compensation for Mr Rs distress and inconvenience.
Allianz said LL asked to delay works for six months until its tenants lease ended, and then 
asked for a further six months delay. It said this meant when the floor covering was lifted 
extensive mould was discovered which it had to fix. Allianz said LL cancelled the restoration 
work scheduled for February 2020. In September 2020 LLs kitchen was removed by 
Allianzs agents and LL said that units were damaged. LL complained that Allianz wouldnt 
replace all the kitchen units and appliances and work on a stud wall.
In December 2020 Allianz offered to settle the claim by cash or repairs. Allianz said its loss 
adjusters tried to progress the claim, but each time LL raised disputes and its attempts to 
arrange for the contractor to start the repair to the stud wall and decoration were blocked as 
LL requested further loss of rent payments. Allianzs offer included a breakdown of costs, 
and said the work would take 10-12 weeks and it included 12 weeks loss of rent. LL said that 
due to its previous experience it didnt want Allianzs agents to carry out the repair works.
Throughout the period of the claim the property remained untenanted. Allianz said that the 
removal of the kitchen and work top caused damage to one unit, which it would replace and 
would refit undamaged items. It said theres some small rust at the rear of an appliance, but 
this had no impact visually or on its working and so didnt need to be replaced.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He understood why LL 
had lost trust in Allianzs agents and didnt want them to do the reinstatement work. And said 
Allianz could either appoint another agent to do the work, or meet LLs quote, either way 
Allianz should add the cost of utility bills and council tax for 12 weeks. The investigator said 
that there is no cover in LLs policy for their loss assessors costs to be met.
Allianz replied that it hadnt insisted its agents do the work and its cash offer wasnt accepted 
by LL. It agreed to include council tax and utility bills with a payment for 12 weeks loss of 
rent, though it said council tax is an inevitable cost of being a landlord even without a tenant. 
Allianz said it could appoint another agent, but the works still wouldnt be acceptable to LL. It 
suggested LL obtain its own quote and Allianzs surveyor would validate the proposal.
LL said Allianzs offer came long after the claim and its complaint to us and it had said it 
didnt want a cash settlement. LL said as all delays from this point were caused by Allianz 
and its agents, loss of rent and other costs should be met until the work is completed, not 
just for 12 weeks as the investigator had said. LL said Allianz should pay for the storage of 
kitchen units and provide a new loss adjuster and new plan to be agreed upon by all parties. 
LL said the investigator had established that Allianzs agents didnt fulfil their obligations and 
that it had refused to engage in any further dialogue, stating that LL could refer the complaint 
to our service. LL said it made multiple attempts to break the impasse, but Allianz refused to 
engage. LL said Allianz made an offer soon after LL's complaint to our service, but this 
doesnt absolve Allianz of responsibility for the delays, or the mistakes by its agents.
As both parties were unhappy with aspects of the investigators view of the complaint it has 
been referred to me as an ombudsman to decide the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with the rules that are set for our service by the Financial Conduct Authority 
about the complaints that we may and may not consider, I have only considered LLs 
complaint up to December 2020 when the complaint was referred to our service. Any 
complaint issues after this (such as storage costs and further delays) can be the subject of a 
separate complaint to Allianz, and then our service if necessary. Im grateful to both parties 
for their timelines. 
LLs claim was accepted and partially worked on by Allianz and the main issue of the 
complaint is the delays that have followed. Its worth bearing in mind that large damage 
claims from an escape of water are usually complex and involve multiple parties. That is the 
case with LLs claim, but I dont think it should have taken as long as it has to resolve. LL 
thinks Allianz should pay its loss of rent and other costs incurred during the stalled claim up 
to when the repair work is completed. Allianz accepts the investigators suggestion to pay 
loss of rent and other costs for 12 weeks of the repairs, but not before. I have considered 
what would be fair in the circumstances. 
Problems with the claim took time to resolve, including the mould and obtaining pictures and 
reports. Allianz says there were also holdups due to LL waiting for its tenancy to expire, 
disputing aspects of the claim at each stage while it paid for LLs loss of rent until capped. 
Allianzs records of communications between the parties support this including months for 
LL to provide estimates and delays following the agreement to repair the stud wall. 
LL said it didnt want any involvement with Allianzs contractors as it felt they had impeded 
the resolution of the complaint by using incorrect information such as that the kitchen units 
were damaged when installed. I have seen the details of the dispute about the damage to 
the kitchen and I have seen that LLs lack of response to Allianzs contractor was raised by 
the loss adjuster. I think LL should accept that not engaging with the contractor would mean 
delays were inevitable as were requests that the loss adjuster be removed from the claim. LL 
was entitled to raise disputes but should accept the effect of this on its claim. 
I think Allianz was concerned about the cost of the work quoted by contractors and sought to 
manage costs, but in its response to the complaint in May 2020, it paid LL £500 
compensation for the delay and for offering a cash settlement when LL had previously said it 
didnt want this as it was concerned about the risk of increased costs. I think this was fair.
Allianz renewed its cash offer or repair option in January 2021 and said the kitchen could be 
reinstated. LL responded by disagreeing that the kitchen had been removed without 
significant damage and said, all works will need to be suspended until this is resolved. I agree with LL that Allianzs detailed offer should have been made before December 2020, 
but it was before our consideration of the complaint. I think Allianz was slow to appreciate 
that full restoration of the property was required. However, Allianz acted as we would expect 
by offering a cash settlement or repairs and its loss adjusters remain ready to manage the 
claim. And so I dont agree with LL that Allianz refused to engage in any further dialogue. 
However, its clear the relationship between LL and Allianzs agents has broken down and so 
if repairs are carried out, Allianz should appoint different agents to do this. I Allianz is unable 
to do this it should meet a reasonable estimate provided by LL for the cost of the work.
From what Ive seen of the claims timeline, most delays occurred after Allianzs final 
response to the complaint, and as stated above we cant consider these until they have been 
referred by complaint to Allianz. And so I don't think it would be fair for Allianz to have to pay 
any further compensation to LL or to meet costs outside of the 12 weeks it has been 
estimated to complete the repairs to LLs property.
LL suggests that the kitchen units are now returned to site, but the parties disagree as to 
whether the kitchen is suitable to be reinstated in its present state. Allianz says that the 
kitchen is suitable as it hasnt suffered any detrimental effects, though it shows signs of age, 
wear and tear. The policy covers LL for reinstatement of the kitchen, but this doesnt include 
the replacement of any undamaged items or items suffering from wear and tear. And so, in 
the absence of any expert report to say otherwise, I think that subject to the replacement or 
repair of the damaged unit, the kitchen can be reinstated.
Having looked at LLs policy, I cant see any provision for the policyholder to recover fees 
incurred for a loss assessor and so I make no award about this. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to resolve Livegrange Limiteds claim either by appointment of 
another agent to do the work, or if this is not possible for Allianz to do this, it should meet a 
like-for-like quote provided by LL. Either way Allianz should include the cost of repair or 
replacement of the damaged unit and the work to the stud wall. Any payment should also 
include LLs loss of rent, utility bills and council tax for 12 weeks. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask LL and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman