DRN-4483773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help them recover the money 
once theyd reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr H came across an online advertisement for an investment company Ill refer to as C 
which was endorsed by a well-known celebrity. He completed an enquiry form and made a 
payment of £250, after which he was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker working 
for C. The broker told Mr H he could help him to invest in cryptocurrency and that he should 
earn enough to help fund his mortgage repayments. 
The broker told Mr H to download AnyDesk remote access software to his device and to 
open a trading account with C and an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill 
refer to as F.
Mr H visited Cs website and believed that it looked professional and he was reassured 
because he was able to start with a small investment. The broker asked him to first purchase 
cryptocurrency through a F and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Between 
4 August 2022 and 19 June 2023, he transferred 22 payments to F totalling £95,118. 
Mr H made a test payment to F for £1 on 4 August 2022 and on 14 September 2022, the 
broker showed him how to make a withdrawal and £81 was credited to his account from F. 
He was the encouraged to invest further funds, which he did up to February 2023. And from 
8 June 2023, Mr H made what he believed were payments to Blockchain for the release of 
his funds. During the scam period, he took out loans for £19,000 and £25,000, which have 
since been paid off.
Mr H contacted HSBC when he realised hed been scammed, arguing that the payments 
should have been flagged for further checks. But HSBC refused to refund any of the money 
hed lost. It said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code wouldnt apply to the 
payments because Mr H paid an account in his own name and control. It also explained 
fraudulent transactions can be authorised on a customers' account without being picked up 
by the Fraud Detection System. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied and so they complained to this service with the assistance of 
a representative. The representative said HSBC should have intervened and asked 
questions about the purpose of the payments. They argued the payments were unusual for 
the account as Mr H had never purchased cryptocurrency before and was making large 
transfers into the account from his other accounts before sending the funds straight out 
again to a cryptocurrency merchant. He had also taken out two loans to fund the investment.
The said HSBC should have asked Mr H about the purpose of the payments and he would 
have explained he was being advised by a broker to invest in cryptocurrency. HSBC would 
have known to check the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register and it would have 
identified other red flags including the use of AnyDesk, the fact C was endorsed by a 
celebrity, and the fact Mr H had been advised to send money to a cryptocurrency wallet held 
by an unregulated third-party. And with this information it would have been able to warn Mr H 
about the risk of scams and provide advice on how to protect himself.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She confirmed the payments 
werent covered under the CRM code because they were to an account in Mr Hs own name. 
And she didnt think Payments 1 to 3 were unusual because the account had a history of 
making payments of similar value. She accepted the historic payments were to existing 
beneficiaries, but by the time Mr H made the slightly larger payment of £7,580 on 30 
September 2022, F was no longer a new payee.
Our investigator went on to explained that she thought HSBC ought to have intervened when 
Mr H made the fourth payment because it was a larger payment and the account didnt have 
a history of similar payments. She also thought that as he was making further large 
payments in quick succession to a high risk merchant having had loans credited to the 
account, HSBC missed other opportunities to intervene on 6 June 2023, 8 June 2023, 9 
June 2023, 12 June 2023 and 19 June 2023.
However, she didnt think an intervention at any of those points would have made a 
difference because she thought Mr H would have gone ahead with the payments even if he 
was warned of the potential for a scam. She accepted that if HSBC had contacted Mr H, 
based on what he said to his other bank (Bank R) when it questioned him about payments 
from that account, he would probably have said that he was investing in cryptocurrency with 
the help of a broker hed found online. And she was satisfied that this would have been 
enough for HSBC to have identified that he was making payments to a scam.
However, she didnt think an intervention or warnings from HSBC would have made any 
difference to Mr Hs decision to go ahead with the payments because he was taking advice 
from the broker and had already ignored a warning from Bank R.
She explained that on 3 May 2023, Mr H had told the broker about a call hed received from 
someone stating his dealings with C were fraudulent and that hed hung up the phone 
because the broker had cautioned him about scams. The broker told Mr H he should talk to 
him immediately whenever he gets a question. On 6 June 2023, Mr H told the broker that 
Bank R had told him the investment was a scam, and on 7 June 2023 he told him someone 
else had called asking to connect to his phone through AnyDesk but hed refused because 
he recalled the broker cautioning him. Finally, on 9 June 2023, he told the broker that Bank 
R had agreed for him to trade because he had accepted its scam conditions. 
Our investigator also explained that Bank R had warned Mr H the investment was a scam. It 
also told him the email address hed received from Blockchain wasnt a legitimate contact. 
He was asked to confirm that he acknowledged the warnings and that he didnt intend to 
continue with the investment which he responded to by saying he wanted his funds returned 
and his account closed.
Our investigator noted Mr H told the broker on 6 June 2023 that Bank R had told him the 
investment was a scam, yet he continued to make payments. And when he was unable to 
make payments from the account he held with Bank R, he proceeded to use other accounts 
to make further payments. This showed he was clearly under the spell of the scammer to the 
extent that he trusted what he was told by the broker over the advice he was given by Bank R. Because of this, she concluded that, even if HSBC had intervened and provided a scam 
warning, she didnt think it would have prevented Mr H from making further payments. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. The 
representative has argued that Mr H had told the truth to Bank R, so the only reasonable 
conclusion is that an intervention from HSBC would have exposed the scam. The red flags 
included the fact Mr H discovered C on social media and it was endorsed by a celebrity, it 
was an unregulated investment company, he was told to use AnyDesk, and hed been asked 
to send money via a cryptocurrency exchange to a third-party wallet. 
The representative has argued that Bank R didnt stop Mr H from making payments despite 
knowing it was as scam and that it didnt say for certain that it was a scam when he asked 
how it knew the investment was a scam, which left open the possibility that it wasnt. They 
dont accept he ignored Bank Rs advice or that he was under the spell of the scammer 
because he asked it to explain why the investment was scam. Finally, theyve argued that 
Bank Rs intervention was poor and shouldnt be used against Mr H as evidence of how Mr 
H would have responded to a warning from HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs H have been the victims of a cruel scam. I 
know they feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, 
so Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs H says theyve fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has said the CRM code didnt 
apply in this case because Mr H was paying an account in his own name, and Im satisfied 
thats fair.
Im also satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a cam, but although Mr H didnt intend the money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC 
ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr H when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial harm due to fraud. The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. I agree with our investigator 
that even though Mr H was paying a cryptocurrency merchant, the first three payments 
werent unusual when compared to the normal spending on the account, so I dont think 
HSBC needed to intervene when he made those payments. I also agree that, by the time Mr 
H made the fourth payment of £10,037 on 24 November 2022, the spending was unusual 
when compared to the historic payments on the account, so HSBC should have intervened.
It should have contacted Mr H and asked him why he was making the payments, whether 
there was a third party involved and if so how he learned about the third party, whether hed 
been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed been allowed to make any withdrawals, 
whether hed been told to download AnyDesk and whether hed been advised to make an 
onwards payment from the cryptocurrency exchange. And as Mr H was open in his 
responses when he was questioned by Bank R, Im satisfied hed have told HSBC that hed 
been advised to invest in cryptocurrency a broker who worked for a company that had been 
endorsed by a well-known celebrity and that hed been told to download AnyDesk to his 
device.
With this information, Im satisfied that HSBC would have identified that the payments were 
being made to a scam and so it have told him there were red flags present and provided a 
tailored scam warning, including advice on additional due diligence.
However, I agree with our investigator that an intervention from Halifax on 24 November 
2022 or at any other point in the scam period wouldnt have made any difference to Mr Hs 
decision to go ahead with the payments. This is because, while I accept there were red flags 
present which HSBC could have brought to Mr Hs attention, I agree with our investigator 
that Mr Hs conduct after the intervention from Bank R means its unlikely that a warning 
from HSBC would have made any difference.
Bank R warned Mr H that the investment was a scam and that the email address from 
Blockchain wasnt legitimate. His representative has argued that it didnt confirm that the 
investment was a scam, despite Mr H having asked it to do so. But Im satisfied Bank R gave 
a very clear warning that he was making payments to a scam and that it did all it reasonably 
could to highlight the risk to Mr H and in the circumstances I dont think it could reasonably 
have done anything more. 
After the interaction with Bank H, instead of doing further due diligence, Mr H engaged in 
communications with the broker which demonstrate that he was more inclined to listen to the 
brokers advice than the advice given Bank R and Im satisfied hed have done the scam if 
HSBC had intervened. 
Further, having being told by Bank R that C was operating a scam, Mr H took out two loans 
on the advice of the broker and there is evidence that other loan applications were rejected. 
He also made 17 further payments to the scam. This tells me that if HSBC had intervened 
and told Mr H that he was making payments to a scam, it wouldnt have made any 
difference. His representative has said HSBC should have gone further and explained why 
the investment was a scam and this would have stopped Mr H from making the payments. 
But I dont think HSBC could reasonably be expected to have done anything more than Bank 
R did in the circumstances. 
So, while I accept that HSBC missed opportunities to intervene, I dont think this represented 
a missed opportunity to prevent Mr and Mrs Hs loss and so I cant fairly ask it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
Compensation
Mr and Mrs H arent entitled to any compensation of legal fees from HSBC.Recovery
I dont think there was a realistic prospect of a successful recovery because Mr H paid an 
account in his own name and moved the funds onwards from there.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman