DRN-3309125
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has wrongly 
contacted her for money she doesnt owe.
What happened
In 2017 Ms Y obtained a car using a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. When the four 
year agreement was nearing its end, Ms Y asked MBFS for a settlement figure. She says 
she part-exchanged the car and MBFS received what it was owed. But MBFS then 
contacted her to say she owed it £280. She wants compensation for the stress caused, 
taking into account that MBFS referred the debt to its solicitor.
MBFS said the final payment due on 12 July 2021 was still due, together with a £10 transfer 
of ownership fee, but that Ms Y had cancelled the direct debit arrangement before the 
payment could be collected.
Our investigator thought Ms Y had paid the £10 transfer of ownership fee. But that she fairly 
owed the July 2021 payment of £270. She thought MBFS had acted fairly and in line with its 
terms and conditions.
Ms Y didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
This was not an end of agreement settlement, it was an early settlement. She passed the 
early settlement figure onto the third party with whom she arranged to part-exchange her 
car. She doesnt know why MBFS only received £13,450.
MBFS has acted outside of the agreed terms by charging her the balloon payment plus 
the transfer of ownership fee before 48 months after the contracts start date. 
She had the right to cancel the direct debit arrangement after the account had been 
settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Towards the end of her agreement, Ms Y decided she wanted to part exchange the car she 
obtained under the hire purchase with MBFS and she asked it how much she would have to 
pay to settle the agreement. It told her she would need to pay £14,000 which included the 
monthly payments due in June and July 2021 and the purchase fee of £10. There was no 
interest rebate because it was so close to the end of her agreement. Im satisfied that MBFS 
received the following payments:
June 2021 payment, collected by direct debit £270.00
Balloon payment received from third party £13,450.00
Option to purchase fee paid on Ms Ys bank card £10.00
Total £13,730.00
Ms Y cancelled her direct debit instruction after the June payment. But the settlement letter 
was clear that she shouldnt cancel her direct debit until shed received confirmation of full 
settlement from MBFS. I find she still owes it £270.
Ms Y says she doesnt know why the third party only paid MBFS £13,450. But this complaint 
is about whether MBFS did anything wrong. I find it was fairly owed £14,000 and it only 
received £13,730.00. That means that it wasnt wrong to pursue Ms Y for payment.
MBFS was wrong to say Ms Y still owed the option to purchase fee of £10. Im satisfied from 
the information Ms Y has provided to us that she made a card payment for this amount on 
5 July 2021. I accept this may have caused some confusion. But, overall, Ms Y did still owe 
money under the agreed terms and so MBFS acted fairly and reasonably in following its 
collection procedure.
Ms Y says MBFS should not have charged her the final balloon payment or the option to 
purchase fee until 48 months after the contracts start date. But as shed asked to settle the 
agreement early, these sums became payable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman