DRN-2717938
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that BIG Warranties Limited (BW) did not notify her of a change of
policy on renewal and that this led to the claim on her Home Emergency Policy being
declined. 
What happened
Mrs Ps original Home Emergency Policy was arranged by BW at the end of March 2019.
The insurance company underwriting the policy at the time dealt with a wasps nest problem
at her home in early March 2020.
Mrs P moved to a new home at the end of June 2020 and was in the process of selling her
old house and continued paying premiums on her policy in the meantime. She hadnt noticed
that the premiums had increased very slightly since March 2020.
Mrs Ps daughter noticed that another wasps nest had appeared at Mrs Ps old house in
mid-August 2020. On this occasion, the claim on the policy was declined as the new 
insurance company now underwriting the policy, stated that the property had been
unoccupied for more than 30 days and that this was contrary to the terms of the policy.
The insurers also said that Mrs P had not notified them of the wasps nest within 48 hours of
its discovery, which they said was contrary to the terms of the policy and so she wasnt
covered. Mrs P went on to arrange removal of the wasps nest by a pest removal company
herself. This cost £84.00 including VAT.
BW had sent e-mail notification of renewal arrangements to Mrs P in early March 2020,
although Mrs P says that she did not receive this e-mail.
Mrs P felt that she had not been treated fairly and reasonably by BW and so she complained
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator looked into the matter and explained
that he was not considering the question of whether the claim should be accepted at this
stage. He was considering whether Mrs P was informed of the changes which led to the
claims rejection.
As to the BWs e-mail of early March 2020, the Investigator found BWs evidence to be
persuasive and he believed that BW did send the e-mail correctly, although he also
appreciated that Mrs P didnt receive the e-mail. He couldnt say that BW had made a
mistake however.
The Investigator also considered the fact that BW only sent the information about renewal in
one form of communication. He thought that it was reasonable for BW to have used e-mail to
contact Mrs P. In the e-mail, BW highlighted that there were changes to the level of cover
and advised Mrs P to review the new terms and conditions to ensure the policy was still
suitable. He said; This e-mail was sent more than 28 days in advance. Because of this, the
Investigator believed that BW had acted reasonably within the terms and conditions of the
policy.
As Mrs P remained unhappy with the outcome, the matter was then referred to me to make a 
decision in my role as Ombudsman. Having considered all the available evidence, I 
considered that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld, so I issued a provisional decision as 
follows; -
BW say that they had advised Mrs P that there was a change to her terms and conditions
and that she would need to read these to ensure the policy met her needs. As she did not
contact BW, it automatically re-insured Mrs P under the new terms and conditions.
I dont consider that BW has acted fairly and reasonably in handling Mrs Ps policy renewal
in March 2020 however. I also consider that this has led her to pay £84 to resolve a problem
that would otherwise have been covered by the insurance policy. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps original Home Emergency Policy explain that the period
of cover is for 12 months (from the end of March 2019): Period of cover is defined as; a
period of 12 months from the commencement date... Each year we will offer to renew your
policy for a further period of 12 months. If you do not tell us that you do not wish for the
policy to continue, it will automatically be renewed.
The terms and conditions also say that; You will receive at least 28 days written notice if we
decide or need to change your policy cover or the price of your insurance ... for a list of
reasons, including covering the cost of certain changes.
I agree with the Investigator that the evidence is persuasive that BW sent an appropriate 
email in early March. I am equally persuaded that Mrs P did not receive it. I have looked at 
all the evidence and Mrs Ps records are meticulous and methodical. I am also persuaded 
that its fair and reasonable for BW to have sent this communication by e-mail only, as this 
has been a successful form of communication with Mrs P in all other respects.
I dont agree however that the e-mail was sent at least 28 days before the original insurance
policy was due to expire as required by the terms and conditions.
I appreciate that the letter was only just outside the relevant time-limit. In all the
circumstances however, I dont consider that BW have acted fairly and reasonably. This is
due to the combination of two factors; firstly, that BW failed to adhere to its own terms and
conditions and secondly, that Mrs P had not received the e-mail.
In the circumstances, I have also gone on to consider all the evidence in relation to the
insurance companys rejection of Mrs Ps claim. Both the original and new policy covered
pest infestation in the form of wasps nests. The original policy classed an emergency as; a
sudden and unexpected event which, if not dealt with quickly would in the reasonable
opinion of the helpline: a) render the home unsafe or insecure; or b) damage or cause
further damage to the home; or c) cause personal risk to you; or d) cause a health and
safety risk to others.
The policy excluded claims arising after the home had been left unoccupied and this was
defined as; where no one has resided in the home for a period exceeding 60 consecutive
days. Although Mrs P had moved to her new home at the end of June 2020, she would
have been covered by the terms and conditions of her original policy as the infestation
occurred within 60 days of moving. Under the new policy, she would not have been covered
as it referred to 30 days of non-occupation.
The original policy also didnt refer to the requirement to notify of an emergency within 48
hours of discovery but the new one did. The new insurer thought that Mrs P had notcomplied with this term of her policy.
In the circumstances, although the company underwriting the insurance policy may have
acted within its terms and conditions by declining to pay on the policy, Mrs P has had to pay
out £84 when she quite reasonably expected to be covered by her insurance policy, as
before. She had no reason to consider that the terms and conditions had changed.
Ive noted that BW have refunded the two premium payments of £18.70 which Mrs P paid in
June and July 2020 as a goodwill gesture (£37.40 in total).
In all the circumstances however, its my preliminary view that BW should pay Mrs P an
amount to cover the difference between the £84 she had spent in engaging a firm to remove
the wasps nest and the £37.40 already refunded to Mrs P by BW. This places Mrs P back
into the position she would have been had the claim been properly processed.   
Having received this provisional decision, neither BW nor Mrs P provided any further 
representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither BW not Mrs P have further commented, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. 
 In the circumstances and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint that BW should pay Mrs P an amount to cover the difference between the £84 she 
had spent in engaging a firm to remove the wasps nest and the £37.40 already refunded to 
Mrs P by BW. This places Mrs P back into the position she would have been had the claim 
been properly processed.
My final decision
 I require BIG Warranties Limited to;
- Pay Mrs P £46.60
- Pay Mrs P an additional amount of £50.00 as compensation for her time and trouble in 
having to pursue this complaint, both amounts to be paid within 28 days of Mrs Ps 
acceptance of the Final Decision.
If BW pays later than this date, it must also pay interest on the above compensation to the
date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple interest 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman