DRN-3653297
The complaint
Mr G and Miss W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct have not 
safeguarded their personal details as they were victims of fraud. Mr G and Miss W want First 
Direct to waive the early repayment charge for their mortgage so they can change mortgage 
provider.   
What happened
On 7 August 2020, Miss W was contacted via telephone by an individual claiming to be from 
First Direct. The caller explained that there had been fraudulent activity on her First Direct 
account and informed her these could only be cancelled once she provided security details. 
Miss W was also directed to delete and reinstall her online banking app and she provided 
the secure key codes to the caller. All of this activity resulted in two payments of £600 
leaving her accounts with First Direct. 
Miss W reviewed her account with First Direct and noticed multiple transfers between her 
joint account with Mr G and her sole account. Mr G realised the account details had been 
compromised and contacted First Direct to report the fraud. 
Mr G was informed he would be called back, but as he had not been contacted, he rang First 
Direct on 9 August 2020. During this call Mr G was informed a final response had been 
issued. First Directs final response letter explained it was investigating the fraudulent 
transactions. On 12 August 2020 Mr G and Miss W were informed that both transactions of 
£600 would be refunded to them as they had been victim of fraud. 
Mr G raised a further complaint with First Direct. Mr G was concerned about the following:
Miss W is a politically exposed person (PEP), and First Direct was aware of this. He 
says it carried out over-zealous checks when the account was opened, but assured 
Miss W and Mr G that this was for their benefit to safeguard their account. Mr G says 
similar checks were not applied when the fraudulent activity occurred, and this 
couldve helped prevent the fraud. He says the fact her details have been 
compromised means these checks were pointless and their details are not being 
stored securely. 
Mr G is unhappy Miss Ws details were accessible by the fraudsters and they were 
able to contact Miss W by masking their phone number as First Directs genuine 
phone number.
The multiple internal transfers between Miss Ws account and Miss W and Mr Gs 
joint account did not trigger any alerts for First Direct. Mr G says this activity was 
unusual and shouldve been detected and stopped by First Direct.
First Direct has provided a poor service when handling their queries and complaint. 
There were very long delays when they tried to speak to someone, and they were not 
contacted when they said they would be.
Mr G and Miss W have closed their accounts with First Direct. However, they have 
not moved their mortgage account as it is subject to an early repayment charge.     
Mr G says First Direct should waive this because First Direct have said their details 
are in the public domain and it says it cant change the mortgage account details.
First Direct investigated Miss W and Mr Gs complaint and responded with the following:
It explained it would be investigating the call masking issue to ensure its systems 
remain secure. 
First Direct assured Mr G and Miss W that it has a robust and comprehensive fraud 
prevention system in place. It also assured them that their details were stored 
securely. 
First Direct explained internal transfers are treated different to transfers to a third 
party, and this is why the multiple transfers between their accounts did not raise any 
alerts. 
First Direct said it would not waive the ERC on Mr G and Miss Ws mortgage as it 
was part of his mortgage contract.
First Direct accepted the customer service it provided couldve been better  there 
were long call wait times and some confusion regarding his initial complaint call. First 
Direct credited their joint account with £100 in recognition of these shortcomings.
Mr G and Miss W remained unhappy with First Direct and referred their complaint to our 
service. An investigator reviewed their concerns and didnt think First Direct needed to do 
anymore. In particular he explained that he hadnt seen any evidence that First Direct hadnt 
safeguarded Miss Ws details and he was satisfied it had dealt with the fraudulent claim fairly 
by refunding the transactions. 
Mr G and Miss W did not agree with the investigators review. Mr G explained his concerns 
about the fraud prevention systems in place, especially for individuals like Miss W who is 
classed as a PEP. Mr G and Miss W say the early repayment charge is preventing them 
from taking their mortgage elsewhere and given the circumstances First Direct ought to 
waive these charges. 
As Mr G and Miss W didnt agree with the investigators review, the case has been passed to 
me  an Ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in particular Mr Gs concerns about the 
fraud prevention systems in place. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Firstly, I am sorry to see Miss W and Mr G were the victims of fraud. I appreciate this must 
have been a distressing experience, and both Mr G and Miss W are understandably worried 
about the security provided by their bank, First Direct. I have considered their arguments carefully; however, I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to them, but I hope my decision helps them understand why. 
Access to Miss Ws details
Mr G and Miss W are clearly concerned about the details the fraudster was able to use when 
they contacted Miss W, as they were able to obtain her phone number and other details 
about her, such as the fact she held an account with First Direct and used online banking. 
I understand Miss W is a PEP and Miss W and Mr G underwent due diligence checks when 
the account was opened. I cant say how Miss Ws details were accessed by the fraudster. I 
can only echo what First Direct and our Investigator have already explained - the means 
used by fraudsters to access personal details is becoming increasingly sophisticated. I can 
also see in Miss Ws case that although they had some details about her, it was their ability 
to obtain further security details, in particular secure key codes from Miss W during the call 
which enabled them to access her account and set up new payees. 
First Direct has provided assurances that it has a vigorous system in place. It has also 
confirmed it is looking into the call masking aspect of the fraud carried out on Miss W. It also 
says it has taken on board Mr Gs comments about its current system and passed it on the 
relevant teams. I understand Mr G doesnt think First Direct is doing enough in terms of fraud 
prevention and he has concerns about the general anti-fraud provisions in place. It is not the 
role of this Service to scrutinise the security and fraud prevention framework in place at First 
Direct. I can see First Direct has refunded the transactions to Mr G and Miss W and provided 
assurances about its systems. Its also taken steps to deal with Mr Gs queries about its 
systems. Beyond this, I wouldnt expect First Direct to take any further action. 
Internal transfers
The fraudsters who accessed Miss Ws account made multiple internal transfers between 
her account and Miss W and Mr Gs joint account. Mr G is alarmed these multiple 
transactions, all made in quick succession, didnt trigger any internal warnings.  
First Direct has explained that internal transfers between accounts arent treated in the same 
way as transfers to third parties or other banks. I understand Mr G thinks this is an 
inadequate system. It doesnt seem unreasonable for there to be a different set of triggers 
for internal transfers, especially given most fraudulent activity will involve transfers to third 
parties or other bank accounts. Looking at the statement for Mr G and Miss Ws account it 
also seems transfers between these accounts was in keeping with the normal pattern of 
activity within them. Mr G and Miss havent claimed any financial loss due to these transfers, 
so I dont think First Direct needs to take any further steps here.
Early Repayment Charge
Mr G and Miss W also hold a mortgage account with First Direct. Mr G says he was informed 
by a member of staff during a call that First Direct had no control over their financial details 
being out in the public domain and this could include their mortgage. Mr G says he was told 
that as the fraudsters had their details, they would be able to take a second charge on their 
home or undertake further fraud. 
First Direct has provided a number of call recordings between Mr G and its members of staff. 
After listening to these calls, I appreciate Mr G has serious concerns about the integrity of 
First Directs security system and he feels he has no choice but to move their mortgage to 
another provider. However, I dont think it can be taken from these calls that Mr G and Miss 
Ws details continue to be compromised. First Direct rightly explained that it has no control over information that is out in the public domain. I think during these calls the aim was to 
reassure Mr G that whilst information may be accessible, this does not necessarily mean the 
security systems in place arent adequate. It seems Mr G wants guarantees that their 
information and accounts wont be compromised again, but this isnt something First Direct, 
or any other financial institution can provide. 
Mr G and Miss W are free to move their mortgage, but I dont think First Direct should waive 
the early repayment charge. This charge formed part of their mortgage agreement with First 
Direct and I dont think it would be fair to waive them. Miss W and Mr G can decide to pay 
the charge or wait until the fixed period has come to an end. 
Customer Service 
Mr G and Miss W have experienced long waits when trying to contact First Direct. I 
understand this wouldve been very frustrating, especially given the fraud they had 
experienced. I can also see Mr G says he was not contacted when he said he would be. 
First Direct has made a payment of £100 to Mr G and Miss W in recognition of these issues. 
I think this amount fairly reflects the inconvenience they have been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman