DRN-3211411
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited wont refund payments he hadnt realised were being 
made using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr As credit card statements show payments made between January and April 2020. Mr A 
says he only discovered these in late 2020. At that point he called MBNA. Through 
discussions, MBNA found Mr A had been charged through a subscription with the company 
taking the payments. As the payments had initially been authorised, MBNA said they 
wouldnt treat the matter as a fraudulent payment. And because of the time that had passed, 
they couldnt seek to take the money back through the card networks chargeback scheme. 
Mr A wasnt happy he couldnt have his money back, so he complained. MBNA stood by 
their decision, so the matter came to us. Our investigator looked at the details of the case, 
but couldnt see MBNA had done anything wrong. So he said they didnt need to give Mr A 
his money back.
Mr As asked for the case to be reviewed, so its come to me for a formal decision. He 
repeated the key details of the case, and that he felt a call from MBNA about a fraudulent 
transaction should have led to more action being taken to recover the money then, before 
the time limit had passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint about MBNA. I appreciate this 
wont be the result he was hoping for, but Ill explain how Ive reached my conclusion.
As our investigator explained, MBNA appear to have reasonably concluded the payments 
werent part of a fraudulent transaction. Mr A initially signed up to a service with the 
company taking his money. He also comments about receiving items from them. So a 
service was being provided, and an initial authorisation for the payments was given. 
The issue is then a dispute, for which the chargeback process operated by the card network 
provider would apply. But as MBNA explained to Mr A, there are rules set by the network 
provider, which MBNA must follow when making a claim.
One of these is about the time limit for making a chargeback claim  120 days from the date 
of the transaction for this sort of case. That gave Mr A about four months to notice the 
transactions, and raise his issues with them. When Mr A raised his issues in late 2020, he 
was well outside of that time limit. So it was reasonable MBNA didnt do a chargeback.
I can see MBNA produced annual statements for Mr As account, from which the 
transactions could have been seen within the time limit. I appreciate Mr A has said he was 
unable to receive his statements in 2020, but I dont see that as being due to a failing by 
MBNA. It was for Mr A  as the card holder  to make sure he was aware of what was 
happening to his account, if he knew he wasnt going to be at the address where he was 
having the card statements sent. 
Ive listened to calls MBNA had with Mr A about his card in 2020. In March, I note he was 
told there was a balance owed on his account. And he was told about some of the payments 
being made to the company that had been charging him. I note Mr A was surprised by these, 
but he told MBNA hed check it out. 
I find MBNA did enough at that point to make Mr A aware his credit card account wasnt 
closed or paid off, and payments had been made to this specific company. So MBNA arent 
responsible for Mr A only raising the issue with them after the 120-day time limit had passed. 
Ive considered Mr As comments about the fraudulent transaction MBNA stopped in May. 
But the calls for that incident tell me the name of the company involved was completely 
different to the company that had taken the payments earlier that year. So there was nothing 
in that incident to tell MBNA there was a link between the two companies. 
I appreciate the call taker said thered been no other activity on the account. But I take that 
to mean no other declined transactions  which was correct. The call taker did encourage 
Mr A to check his statements and contact MBNA if there was anything unusual. If hed done 
that, Mr A would have still been in time to raise a chargeback request for most of the 
transactions he now disputes. 
At no point can I see a failing by MBNA that has caused Mr A to miss the time limit for 
making a chargeback claim on these transactions. Nor can I see MBNA are unfairly applying 
the time limit to Mr As dispute. So I dont consider them responsible for Mr As losses here.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman