DRN-4012775
The complaint
Ms S complains that a car that was supplied to her through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline), wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Ms S financed through a hire purchase agreement with Startline, 
that she digitally signed in June 2022. The car that was supplied to Ms S was around four 
years old, had been driven for 49,108 miles and had a price of £22,580. 
Ms S was able to use it without any reported issues until 25 November 2022 when she says 
that whilst driving, the Service Required DPF Diesel Fuel Filter Full warning light came on. 
She took it to her nearest dealership who reported the following faults DPF, EGR Gauze 
filter, timing chains. The dealership quoted a cost of £3,500 to repair the car. No service 
history for the vehicle was available or provided to Ms S.
 
Ms S raised a complaint with the credit broker who commissioned an independent report. 
Following this the broker said it would not cover the repair costs as, according to the report, 
the faults were not present at the point of purchase. Ms S then raised a complaint with 
Startline, the finance provider. In its final response it said based on the findings on the 
independent report it had been determined any fault present would not have been present at 
the point of sale. It didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms S brought the complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator concluded that, despite the conclusions of the independent inspection, the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality and that the mechanical issues were developing at the 
point of sale. Startline didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. It said the 
expert engineers report determined that the current vehicle issue would not have been 
present at the point of sale, is considered a serviceable repair under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 and therefore would be Ms Ss liability.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Startline, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on several factors.
The inspection report recorded the car's mileage as 52,603 and said:
oWe can confirm on initial start up from cold there was a timing chain rattle on 
idle which remained continuous during the inspection.
oWhen speaking to the repairing technician it mentioned that the dealership 
had tried to perform a forced DPF regeneration; however the soot 
accumulation is too much and the repairing technician has said the soot 
accumulation has occurred due to the timing chain and due to the VVT 
actuator a composite for the wear on the timing chain and does not bring up 
fault codes for the crankshaft or camshaft incoherence. 
oAt the time of our inspection we were unable to check the condition of the 
timing chain due to the engine being in its complete condition and there were 
no faults in the crankshaft and camshaft. However we would consider based 
on the available evidence presented to ourselves at the time of the inspection 
that the faults present were not developing at the time of purchase and are 
not the selling agents responsibility. We also consider the vehicles timing 
chain does wear over time during in-service use of the vehicle and is known 
as a serviceable item.
Ms S had only had the car for five months and driven less than 3,500 miles. While I 
accept the engineers report has concluded the current vehicle issue would not have 
been present at the point of sale, it has done so only on the evidence available. But 
its not clear to me what that evidence was and how it has determined the problems 
have occurred only in the previous five months. Although the continuous rattle could 
be heard the timing chain wasn't available for inspection and the report says the DPF 
issues occurred because of the timing chain. 
On the price estimate for repair quoted by the dealership it says:
oengine running poorly from cold, noticeable rattle from timing chains, DPF 
issue may re-occur if timing chains are not replaced due to poor running
Startline has said that the timing chain is a serviceable repair and would therefore be 
Ms Ss liability. I think a reasonable person would consider that a timing chain would 
last longer than 53,000 miles and in general it should last the lifetime of the vehicle 
with maintenance checks from around 60,000 to 100,000 miles. Ms Ss vehicle failed 
at 49,108 miles and after only five months of having the car. I wouldnt expect Ms S 
to have needed to have the car serviced in such a short time and the service history 
wasnt made available to her. 
It seems to me that the timing chain which is meant to be a reasonably durable part if 
maintained, failing at only 49,108 miles is unusual. So while I accept that Startline 
has said the engineer has determined that the issue wasnt present I think on the 
balance of probability the issue was present or developing at the point of sale. 
Putting things right
 As I'm persuaded that Ms S was supplied a vehicle that wasn't satisfactory at the point of 
sale Startline should:1. Arrange for the vehicle to be repaired at the earliest opportunity. Repairs should be 
carried out on issues related to this complaint. Ms S has further complained about 
windscreen water ingress. As this is a new issue it would form a new complaint and 
should be brought to Startline in the first instance.
2. As Ms S has had no use of the vehicle since 30 November 2022 to date and she 
hasn't been kept mobile Startline should refund Ms S all the payments she has made 
towards the agreement for this vehicle since and including 30 November 2022 to the 
date the vehicle is repaired and Ms S is able to use it again.
Ms S asked for a courtesy car as part of the remedy for this complaint. The fact that 
Ms S is without a car now and will be while the car is being repaired is factored into 
the refund of the payments until she is able to use the car again.
3. Add 8% simple interest to all refunds set out in 2 above from the date they were paid 
to the date they were refunded.
4. Pay Ms S £300 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her.
5. Remove any adverse information (if any) Startline may have placed on Miss S's 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Startline Motor Finance Ltd must put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman