DRN-2538721
The complaint
Mr K, as a director of J and on its behalf, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) has treated him unfairly in relation to a loan debt it says he owes.
Any reference to Mr K or RBS includes that of its agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
RBS says a loan was taken out in 2009 by Mr K. This had a term of around ten years 
and didnt require monthly repayments to be made (although these could be made). It 
says at the end of this term, the remaining sum would be payable in full. It referred to 
this as a bullet loan.
RBS says Mr K made some repayments at the start of the term. And at the end of the 
term Mr K failed to settle the sum owed. So, RBS defaulted the loan and chased Mr 
K for the debt.
Mr K says he does not recall ever taking the loan, and requested a copy of the 
original loan agreement. It was unable to provide this so he said it should stop 
chasing him for the debt, and that even if the debt was valid, the matter should be 
considered statue barred.
Our investigator looked into what happened and initially upheld the complaint. He 
wasnt persuaded there was evidence to show this was a bullet loan, and as a 
result felt the debt shouldve been defaulted much earlier after Mr K stopped making 
repayments. He directed RBS to act as if the loan had defaulted in 2009. 
RBS provided further evidence, including system information. The investigator felt 
this supported RBS previous comments that the loan was indeed a bullet loan  and 
so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K disagreed, reiterating he had never agreed to the loan in question, and saying 
that his repayments towards it had actually been towards a previous separate loan.
In turn, the investigator shared the evidence hed relied on in reaching his outcome.
oHe said a 2014 letter showed Mr K was aware of the account.
oRBS internal system notes reflected the bullet loan in place from 2009 and 
that Mr K elected to pay a monthly sum by standing order.
oA statement showing sums paid towards the loan reflected the sum paid by 
standing order.
Mr K still disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he believes the debt against him isnt legally enforceable 
and that he had no knowledge of it.
Its not for this Service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can 
decide this. But while I cant decide on enforceability, I can comment on whether RBS has 
acted fairly by pursuing Mr K for this debt. 
RBS system notes reflect a business term loan was taken out in 2009. 
A letter from Mr K to RBS from 2014 reflects he was in receipt of statements related 
to this loan.
The paperwork RBS has provided (and which has been shared with Mr K) suggests 
Mr K chose to pay £162.92 per month following it being taken out. This is the same 
sum paid in July and August 2009 which is reflected in the statements shared. This 
suggests to me its most likely Mr K had agreed to make repayments at this time.
For these reasons, Im satisfied RBS has acted reasonably by chasing for the sums it 
says are owed, and that this action is supported by the available evidence. It follows 
that I think any respective records it has made on Mr Ks credit file are an accurate 
reflection of this. So, Im not asking it to do anything further.
I understand Mr K says he does not recognise this loan or any details of the loan, but 
his comments havent changed my mind. Mr K says the sums he did pay related to a 
separate loan  but this isnt reflected in the evidence Ive been given. Mr K has 
questioned why RBS didnt contact him earlier after he stopped making repayments  
however by the nature of the bullet loan this wasnt a necessary payment, so this 
doesnt persuade me RBS needed to act earlier than it did. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman