DRN-3328033
The complaint
Mr R complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly declined to pay costs 
associated with a claim made under his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Any reference to AmTrust or Mr R includes any respective representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
 Mr R had a dispute with his employer. He sought to claim on his LEI policy.
AmTrust appointed solicitors (Company A) to review the circumstances. They 
determined the claim did not have reasonable prospects of success. So AmTrust 
declined to cover the claim. 
But AmTrust explained it would re-assess the claim if further evidence was provided. 
Alternatively, if Mr R could provide a solicitors legal assessment that said the claim 
had reasonable prospects, it would then arrange a barristers opinion on the matter.
Mr Rs own solicitors (Company B) appointed a barrister who felt the claim did have 
reasonable prospects. This view was shared with AmTrust and after consideration, it 
agreed to cover the claim and backdated costs. But it said it wouldnt cover costs 
associated with the barristers opinion as this was obtained outside of its process.
Mr R complained. AmTrust said it had acted fairly, saying it wouldve paid for a 
barristers opinion itself had it had received a legal assessment from Company B in 
line with its process  which it hadnt received. 
One of our Investigators considered what happened. He said AmTrust had acted 
fairly by relying on the assessment from Company A, and the policy clearly set out 
that any second opinion costs obtained by Mr R would fall to him to cover. And the 
Investigator said AmTrust had clearly set out the appropriate steps for Mr R to 
appeal, which werent followed. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Mr R sought to make a claim under his LEI cover. Policies of this nature require 
claims to have reasonable prospects of success  typically defined as at least 51% 
and which would recover losses or damages. This means if Mr Rs claim was shown 
to have at least 51% or greater prospects of success and would recover his losses or 
damages then the claim should be covered (subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy). 
In determining whether Mr Rs claim has reasonable prospects, AmTrust relied on 
the opinion of Company As solicitor which was shared with Mr R. This outlined the 
potential claims Mr R may be able to make and assessed prospects at 20-30%.
AmTrust is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice 
is obviously wrong. The claim was reviewed by a qualified individual with suitable 
experience in the relevant area of law. And Company As advice was properly written 
and reasoned  so Im satisfied it was fair for AmTrust to rely on this advice.
AmTrust was clear in outlining Mr Rs next steps if he disagreed with this opinion, 
telling him he could either provide additional information or a conflicting legal 
assessment from a solicitor. Mr R hasnt disputed he was given this advice.
A barrister was instructed by either Company B or Mr R. And this isnt in keeping with 
the advice AmTrust gave (that Ive outlined above). Ive seen nothing to persuade me 
this action was necessary in the circumstances. So, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct AmTrust to pay for costs incurred outside of its policy terms.
Since the barristers opinion was presented to AmTrust, stating the claim had 51% 
prospects of success, it reconsidered and accepted the claim. So, I see no reason to 
go over these parts of the complaint that have now been resolved.
So, based on everything Ive been given, Im satisfied AmTrust acted reasonably in 
relying on Company As advice and Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman