DRN-4194199
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim she made 
on her motor insurance policy.
Haven is the underwriter of this policy ie the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Haven has accepted responsibility for the actions of its agent, in my 
decision, any reference to Haven includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all again here. 
In summary, Miss R made a claim on her car insurance because she said parts had been 
stolen from her car causing it to break down. Haven declined the claim, but it had sold the 
car while it was still investigating the claim. Miss R is unhappy it sold her car without her 
permission and says she still had personal belongings in the car at the time.
Haven recognised its error and offered to pay Miss R the salvage value of the car. It also 
offered her £100 as compensation. But Miss R didnt think its offer was fair, she says her car 
was worth £9,000.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld; he didnt think it was fair for Miss R 
to lose out on the value of the car. As such, he said Haven should pay the cars market value 
less the cost of the repairs and salvage value it had already paid.
Haven doesnt agree with what our investigator said, it says by settling the complaint in the 
way he suggested, it would put Miss R in a better position than she was in prior to the claim. 
It thinks it would effectively be enabling what it believes was an illegitimate claim.
Our investigator maintains that the matter is separate to the claim and the decision made on 
it, therefore he didnt change his position. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 June 2023 in which I said: 
 When it declined the claim, Haven ought to have returned Miss Rs car to her as it was 
still her property. Haven acknowledges it shouldnt have sold it without her consent. When 
things go wrong, we expect a business to put them right, and usually ask it to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. In this 
case its not able to return Miss Rs car to her. Nevertheless, it must ensure she hasnt lost 
out financially and address any practical or emotional impact the error has had on her. So, 
Ive thought about whether it has done enough to rectify its error.
Haven said its recovery agents confirmed there werent any of Miss Rs personal items in the 
car at the time. I also note Miss R didnt raise any concerns about her personal belongings 
until she was informed her car had been sold. Considering the valuable nature of the items 
Miss R says were in the car, I would expect her to have queried where they were sooner. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the items Miss R listed were still in the car at the time, so I dont 
think Haven needs to compensate for the things she says it lost.
In cases like this, I think a fair way to resolve things and to ensure Miss R hasnt lost out is 
for Haven to pay the cost of replacing her car with a similar one, another way to look at it is 
what she could reasonably have expected to sell her car for on the open market. Haven 
offered to pay the salvage value its agents received from the sale of the car, I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to highlight that as the claim had been declined, Miss R would 
only be entitled to the value of the car as at the time it was sold, not what she may have 
thought it was before the incident. Havens engineer identified several mechanical and 
electronic faults with it. I think these issues are likely to impact the price she would have 
been able to sell it for, compared to a car in good condition, so I think it would be fair for 
Haven to make deductions from its value to account for the cost of repairing the existing 
damages. Haven has also shown Miss Rs car had been written off in a previous accident, 
we usually find the fact a car has been written off can significantly impact the price it sells for 
in the future. Its engineer thought the car had minimal repair work done following the initial 
accident, and I dont think what he said is unreasonable having reviewed the area of damage 
from the accident, and the damage evident on the car at the time of the most recent claim.
I appreciate Miss R thinks her car is worth around £9,000 and provided adverts for similar 
cars currently on sale, but the adverts reflect prices for similar cars in a notably better 
condition to hers. I would also highlight that Haven thought the car was a total loss and its 
engineer didnt think the car was safe to be on the road. He said this was because of the 
safety warnings, tyre conditions and previously unrepaired damages. Looking at the images 
and report provided Ive seen no reason to question this - so I dont think its unreasonable to 
rely on the engineers expert opinion.
Considering the overall condition of the car at the time, and taking into account that it wasnt 
running when the claim was made, Im not persuaded Miss R would have been able to sell 
her car on the open market for more than what someone looking to buy a salvage car would 
be willing to pay for it at the time. Havens offered to pay Miss R £3,400 which is what her 
car sold for at the time and I think thats fair offer here.
Ive also thought about whether it ought to compensate her for what happened. I think it 
would have been upsetting to find it sold her car when it shouldnt have. Its acknowledged 
this and offered £100 compensation for the service she received, and I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. Ultimately, I dont think it needs to pay Miss R any more than it already 
offered to pay
Miss R didnt accept my provisional decision and raised several points: 
Miss R says that prior to the incident the car had been roadworthy and used daily. 
She says that had it not been for the stolen parts, there wouldnt have been an issue 
with it. 
Miss R doesnt think Haven should have classed the car a total loss based on the 
missing parts. She says that the total cost of the stolen parts including labour was 
£571.34 and she thinks the cost should be deducted from the value and the balance 
paid. 
Miss R says having researched the current market, she cant find a car with the same 
specification for less than £9,000, and that the examples she has seen include cars 
that had previously been damaged.
She would like evidence of the same car, model, and specification for £3,400.
Miss R says Haven could have withdrawn the sale of her car and cancelled the 
instructions to its agent. She says had it done so, she wouldnt be in this position now. 
Miss R thinks the engineers report is wrong and does not accurately reflect what 
happened or give a realistic value for her car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments and information Miss R provided and my decision 
remains the same as what I said provisionally. I know this will be disappointing to Miss R, but 
Ill explain why.
Miss R provided an estimate to replace the power steering pump and says Haven should 
deduct the cost from the value, but I find this was not the only issue with the car at the time. I 
think its helpful to reiterate here that Haven are only required to put Miss R back in the 
position she would have been in, so I think its fair for it to consider the overall condition of 
the car when it was sold as this is likely to impact its value.
I accept the car passed the MOT testing prior to the incident and was deemed roadworthy, 
but I dont think that means it was in what I would consider a good condition. The MOT 
testing certificate highlighted several advisory issues and defects, and it stated that there 
was front end damage to the car. Furthermore, the report from the breakdown company 
which Miss R provided, states that the steering pump was missing, but it also makes 
mention of other faults found in the diagnostic test they ran. I find all this is in line with many 
of the issues Havens engineer also identified, and Ive not seen any evidence that 
contradicts the engineers findings. As such, I think its reasonable for Haven to rely on the 
engineers opinion.
While the engineer recognised that some temporary work had been carried out, he said that 
several warning lights were illuminated, and that some damages had not been repaired, he 
thought the car was a total loss following the most recent incident. I reviewed the 
photographs of Miss Rs car and taking everything into consideration, I dont think what he 
said is unreasonable.
Miss R provided examples of similar cars on sale. I accept some of these may have been for 
previously damaged cars, however all the examples were for cars in a better condition to 
hers, so I dont think they represent a fair comparison. 
As I said in my provisional decision, considering the overall condition of the car, and taking 
into account that it wasnt running following the most recent incident, Im not persuaded Miss 
R would have been able to sell her car on the open market for more than what someone 
looking to buy a salvage car would be willing to pay for it at the time. Havens offer of £3,400 
is what its agent was able to sell the car for, so I think its fair that it pays this to Miss R.
There is no dispute the car shouldnt have been sold without Miss Rs consent, Haven also 
offered to pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused in doing 
so. I appreciate that Miss R says its mistake meant she was without a car to use for several 
months. However, the car was sold while her claim was still being validated and it offered to 
pay her the salvage value before its investigation was complete, so, I find Miss R would still 
have been without a car to use during this period. For this reason, I dont think it needs to 
compensate for the time Miss R was without a car. However, I think it will have been 
upsetting to Miss R that it sold the car without her agreement. I think £100 is fair 
compensation in the circumstances.  My final decision
Haven Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £3,400 for the car, and 
£100 in compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman