DRN-3727203
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Starling Bank Limited declined current account transfers due to the 
limits involved.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 4 August 2022 Mr J attempted to make an outgoing payment of £10,000 to a third party 
(which he had made transfers to many times before). This payment was declined. Mr J 
complained to Starling and an advisor told him to try a smaller amount. Mr J transferred 
£5,000 which was successful. 
Starling said its personal accounts only support low volumes of buying and selling in regards 
to this type of transaction. But it never confirmed to Mr J what that limit was. 
As Mr J is aware (as he has referenced the terms and conditions in his correspondence to 
our service) the terms and conditions of the account state:
We may hold a payment instruction if we reasonably consider it necessary to do so to 
protect you or your Account (for example, as a result of the payment exceeding a fraud 
related limit) or if we are required to for legal reasons.
Therefore, Starling is entitled to restrict or stop payments which fall into this category. Having 
reviewed the evidence Starling has submitted, I can see on several occasions it explained to 
Mr J that it only supported low volumes of buying and selling in regard to this type of 
transaction. So, I am satisfied that Starling can restrict or stop any payments going out if, its 
not within their risk appetite or a potential fraud risk. And when Mr J asked for a further 
explanation, Starling bank went some way to provide this.
Mr J has expressed his dissatisfaction that the limits have not been disclosed to him. I 
understand Mr J is frustrated with this but in order to protect its customers this is 
commercially sensitive information which we wouldnt expect Starling to disclose. So while 
Mr J has said how can I adhere to the terms and conditions if they havent been disclosed to 
me I am satisfised the terms and conditions were disclosed to Mr J, and that Starling acted 
in line with the terms. I wouldnt expect it to disclose its limits as it is commercially sensitive 
information which could put its customers at risk. 
I understand that Mr J is confused as he has made large transactions to the same third party 
previously. However, having reviewed the terms and conditions I am satisfied that Starling 
bank is allowed to make changes with immediate effect without notifying its customers in 
certain circumstances. 
I understand Mr J will be unhappy with my decision but ultimately Starling is entitled to set its 
own procedure in regards to its operations and risk appetite including transfer limits and its 
not the role of our service to tell Starling how to operate. In this case I am satisfied it has 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account and as such I cant conclude it has 
treated Mr J unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman