DRN-1614693
The complaint
Mr R says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr R paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have the original documents from the sale, which is understandable given 
just how long ago it was. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to 
dispose of Mr Rs data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mr R into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require HSBC to be able to produce documents from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC misled Mr R 
here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a 
choice, and he chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing 
so after so many years.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr R, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr R, Ive assumed they did. That 
means HSBC had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr R may have possibly had benefits or savings, though understandably he cant now recall 
their exact worth. In any case, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his benefits and savings, 
and covered him for a lengthy period. It also meant he could effectively protect his savings 
and use them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save 
another. Further, this mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment, and there was no 
guarantee that Mr R would have the same benefits or savings in the years to come. And its 
worth bearing in mind that if Mr R fell behind on his repayments, he couldve lost his home. 
So it seems reasonable that he insured himself to protect his home and have peace of mind.
Since I dont know exactly what was said at the sale, it is possible that the information HSBC 
gave Mr R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether 
I think better information was likely to have changed his mind. But as I explained above, 
Mr R wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really 
been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced 
given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr R could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman