DRN-3822406
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) sold her loan account 
and current account to a debt collection agency with incorrect balances. Shes also unhappy 
BoS hasnt sent her statements for these accounts after she requested them.
What happened
Mrs O had a current and loan account with BoS. These accounts were defaulted, and 
subsequently sold to a debt collection agency in 2013.
In April 2021, Mrs O complained to BoS because she felt they had sold her current and loan 
accounts to a debt collection agency with incorrect balances. At that time, she asked for 
copies of her statements for both accounts covering 2000-2013.
BoS investigated Mrs Os concerns and issued their final response that same month. They 
explained they wouldnt be investigating her complaint about the sale of her accounts 
because she had complained too late. They also apologised for initially telling Mrs O shed 
need to contact the debt collection agency for her statements. They acknowledged Mrs O 
could have requested her statements via a subject access request and said theyd arrange 
for that to happen. BoS sent Mrs O a cheque for £50 in recognition of the confusion and 
delay caused by their mistake.
In November 2021, Mrs O was still unhappy as BoS as their April final response only 
addressed her concerns about her current account. She was also unhappy BoS hadnt sent 
the requested statements despite her subject access request.
BoS issued another final response and explained that Mrs O had complained out of time 
regarding her loan account. They also offered Mrs O £50 for not sending her statements, 
and they felt this was due to a system error. As Mrs O remained unhappy, she referred her 
complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator agreed with BoS that Mrs O had complained too late regarding the balances 
on her account when they were sold to the debt collection agency. Our Investigator 
explained this was because more than six years had passed since her accounts were sold, 
and more than three years since Mrs O ought to have become aware there may have been a 
problem when that happened. 
When considering the statements Mrs O had requested, BoS told us they no longer held 
copies. Our Investigator didnt think this was unreasonable given the time that had passed. 
She felt the total award of £100 offered by BoS was a fair resolution for giving Mrs O 
misleading information when she requested her statements.
Mrs O disagreed with our Investigator, so her complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain my reasons 
below.
Balances of the accounts when they were sold to a debt collection agency
Mrs O complains her loan and current accounts were sold to a debt collection agency with 
incorrect balances.
Our Service doesnt have the power to investigate all complaint referred to us. The Financial 
Conduct Authority sets the rules that governs the work we do. These rules outline the time 
limits in which complaints should be raised. The relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2. This says we 
can only investigate complaints that were raised within six years of the event complained of, 
and if later, within three years of the consumer becoming aware  or when they ought 
reasonably to have been aware they had cause for complaint. The exceptions to this rule are 
if the delay was caused by exceptional circumstances, or the financial business consents to 
our involvement. BoS doesnt agree to us dealing with this aspect of Mrs Os complaint, so 
I had to decide if she complained in time.
Mrs Os accounts were sold to a debt collection agency in 2013, so this is when the event 
complained of took place. Under the six-year part of the rule, Mrs O had until 2019 to raise 
her complaint. As she didnt complaint until April 2021, Mrs O did so around two years too 
late.
I next considered the three-year part of the rule. This is when Mrs O became aware or ought 
reasonably to have become aware that BoS may have sold her accounts with incorrect 
balances.
Given the time thats passed, there is limited information from the time Mrs Os accounts 
were sold. However, Ive seen evidence that shows the debt collection agency sent Mrs O 
statements for both accounts in January 2015. 
These statements detailed the outstanding balances on both her current and loan account. 
Therefore, January 2015 is the latest Mrs O ought reasonably to have become aware there 
may have been a problem. So, under this part of the rule she ought to have raised her 
complaint by January 2018. However, given this is before the timeframe permitted under the 
six-year part of the rule, the 2019 deadline still applies. In turn, it means Mrs O still raised 
her complaint too late.
Ive not seen any evidence or information that persuades me exceptional circumstances 
caused the delay in Mrs O raising her complaint point about her account balances when they 
were sold. Its for this reason I consider this point is outside of our jurisdiction, so we do not 
have the power to investigate it. 
BoS not sending copies of statements
Mrs O has complained BoS hasnt sent copies of statements from 2000-2013 on both her 
loan and current account, despite requesting them.Financial businesses arent obligated to keep customer records for an indefinite period of 
time. Mrs O requested statements that had been created over 20 years ago. And given the 
time thats passed, I dont consider its unusual or unreasonable BoS no longer holds the 
information shes requested. Its for this reason I cant agree BoS treated Mrs O unfairly 
when they were unable to fulfil her request for copies of her current and loan account 
statements.
Despite the above, I do consider BoS customer service did fall short when Mrs O requested 
her statements and subsequently chased them up. BoS has acknowledged they incorrectly 
told Mrs O to contact the debt collection agency for her statements. They also mistakenly 
told her they hadnt been sent to her due to a system error. 
It is disappointing to see Mrs O was given incorrect information when she made a clear and 
simple request. However, I have been pleased to see BoS admitted to their mistake and 
proactively offered Mrs O awards totalling £100 in recognition of the impact this had on her.
Had BoS not already taken steps to resolve these mistakes, I would have asked them to pay 
an award of a similar amount. Therefore, Im satisfied their award is fair in the 
circumstances. As Mrs O has cashed the cheques totalling £100, I wont be asking BoS to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs O will be disappointed with this outcome. But given the above, Im not 
upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman